Members of the European Parliament have shown their ability to listen to the spectrum of views that have been voiced on this important question.
The Commission is very pleased with the close cooperation of the rapporteur, Mrs Fraga Estévez, and the members of the Committee on Fisheries during our work on this important proposal.
Nine amendments of the 22 accepted, and in particular Amendments 2, 10, 11, 13, 20, 21, 22, 25 and 26 were part of a compromise package agreed with the rapporteur and approved by the Committee on Fisheries.
The compromise is not perfect in all details.
The Commission can also accept Amendments 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 23 and 24, which introduce new elements that either reinforce our proposal or make the timing of the introduction of certain measures more gradual.
The Commission cannot, however, accept Amendments 1, 3, 4, 19, and 27 to 34.
In particular, the concept of responsibility of nationals of Member States is already enshrined in the basic regulation for the common fisheries policy and should be maintained here.
With respect to Amendments 19 and 33, which ask for the insertion of provisions for financial support for temporary fishing bans and for fishermen affected by the prohibition of certain fishing gear, the Commission believes that these proposals are not appropriate here, either because there are already rules on these matters under Community legislation and/or because these issues are to be dealt with in the framework of the European fisheries fund proposal.
Moreover, the common market for fisheries products calls for a harmonised minimum size.
The Commission cannot therefore accept this proposal.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment 29, because a 30% increase in the height of the nets would increase fishing effort for small pelagic species, against scientific advice that calls for no increase in the fishing effort targeting this resource.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 30 and 31.
Small-scale fishermen should also contribute to conservation.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 32 and 34 for different reasons.
The list of species in Annex VIII to Council Regulation 1039/98 requested by Amendment&#160;32 contains species which are either not present in the Mediterranean or which can be caught by bottom-set nets and anchored floating nets in coastal areas.
In fact the rationale of Article 7(2) as mentioned in Amendment 10 is to list a group of species which are caught offshore in midwater, or close to the surface of very deep waters and which, when they occur in the catch of a bottom-set gillnet or entangling net, are clear signals that such a net is a drift net rather than a bottom-set net.
This assumption is not correct, since such nets cannot be classified as an anchored floating net or bottom-set net as defined in Article 2(9) and (12) respectively.
In order to guide Mediterranean fisheries towards sustainable exploitation of the Mediterranean marine ecosystem, the European Union, which is the biggest fishing power in the region, needs to set a good and credible example.
A more effective Community management framework is needed to recover the full production and productivity potential of the Mediterranean in the interests first of all of our fishermen and also of other European citizens that want to benefit from the richness of the Mediterranean.
In concluding my speech, may I once again thank the rapporteur, as well as the chairman and members of the Committee on Fisheries, for their excellent cooperation on this matter.
In order to get out of this , I proposed to the Commission that we work in unison on a common text on the points on which there was the greatest controversy, with a view to achieving a joint compromise acceptable to Parliament and the Commission which we would then present once again to the Council of Ministers.
If politics is a question of sacrificing individual interests for the sake of the common good, I believe that we can feel satisfied with our work on approving this report, which demonstrates that, when we work together, it is easier to make progress, and also that when a text that is balanced, and agreed amongst everybody, is presented to the governments, it is more easily accepted and therefore easier to apply.
With regard to the content of the report, I would finally like to stress the effort to provide greater protection for species by means of minimum sizes, with the only temporary exception of hake, where we worked on the basis of a Commission proposal to lower the size to 15&#160;cm — which we have maintained until 2007, when the traditional size of 20 cm will return, coinciding with the proposed increase in mesh.
Mr President, having once again called upon this House to approve this report and, in particular, the compromise reached with the Commission, I shall end by expressing my hope that the Council will fully accept this new proposal, which is the result of this compromise between the European Commission and the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs&#160;Fraga Estévez’s excellent report in terms of its content and how it draws the strands together, describes the specific character of the Mediterranean more effectively than the Council’s proposal.
Such a specific character means that, although the objectives of the Community’s management of fisheries must be the same throughout the EU, the means for achieving them must be adapted to the specific features of fishing in the Mediterranean.
One specific feature is small-scale coastal fishing.
The majority of fishing vessels in the Italian fleet is less than 12 metres long and therefore we cannot disregard the difficulties that will be faced in converting them for other kinds of fishing – something that is greatly desired by the Community.
Small-scale coastal fishing must not only be defined but also safeguarded, and, in the case of reconversion, higher levels of compensation and incentives must be dedicated to it, in order to avoid creating serious socioeconomic problems for the sector as a whole.
From this perspective, the specific character of the Mediterranean has always been a problem: over and above the quantity of research, the problem lies in the discrepancy between research and the specific knowledge requirements of an effective management policy.
We call on the Council to accept this proposal and to take into due consideration the quantity and quality of the work that it has made possible. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Fraga Estévez, on her hard work on this legislation.
I wish to make some general comments.
This is especially so with respect to the Mediterranean Sea, where stocks of many fish species appear in many instances to be at threshold levels.
The EU has a quota allocation of about 18 000 tonnes per year and the Commission in its wisdom has, for some years, considered giving Cyprus a quota of just 5 to 10 tonnes, instead of the 500 to 1 000 tonnes needed.
The Commission blames many factors, such as previous years undeclared or erroneous catchment statistics by the Cyprus authorities, but these are just excuses.
The fishermen of Cyprus … &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am delighted that we were able to adopt this compromise.
It is also a fair compromise, allowing the majority of the countries concerned to find an effective balance between what one set of countries or another has had to accept or refuse in order to reach this compromise.
There remain, however, a number of issues to resolve which have in fact been raised by the previous speakers.
One is the management of the entire Mediterranean basin, since we are only talking about the Member States of the European Union in this compromise.
Finally, I will repeat what Members have said regarding the need for the European Union urgently to conduct a much more active research policy on the Mediterranean.
It tries to focus solely on taking measures to ban the use of fishing gear throughout the Mediterranean, whereas it is common knowledge that the burden on this sea's ecosystem is an extremely acute problem of marine pollution, as the result both of the careless use of pesticides and industrial pollution in general.
We know full well that the composition and fishing potential in the Mediterranean are different, due to the different conditions which prevail and interact, resulting in different degrees of eutrophication and, consequently, of sizes of catch.
That is because, on the pretext of protecting fish stocks, the proposal reduces the fishing capacity, resulting in the immediate reduction and disappearance of income from fisheries for small and medium-sized fishing operations and, ultimately, a mass exodus from this occupation.
Thus, the role of capital in fisheries will become stronger and its previous social and other historic characteristics will disappear.
With this in mind, I call on you to vote against Amendment 10 tabled by our rapporteur, whom I nevertheless congratulate on the tireless work that she has carried out, and I call on you to vote in favour of our Amendment 34.
On behalf of the fishermen whom you will save, I thank you. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after long and arduous negotiations, begun not much less than two years ago, we have reached a compromise that only partially satisfies our Group.
Important matters remain on the table, however, which, in our opinion, are at odds with the interests of fishing in the Mediterranean.
We congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Fraga Estévez, and harbour the legitimate hope that this regulation may be a significant breakthrough towards a Mediterranean that is careful to preserve its fish fauna, but is also the source of livelihoods and employment for thousands of European fishermen, who, up to now, have only been required to observe bans and limits, whilst for the non-European fleets the Mediterranean has been a kind of free zone. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, fishing is nothing short of essential for the survival of the human race: more than one billion people live on animal protein or its by-products.
Fishing and aquaculture, however, represent one of the principal activities of the Union.
The European fleet – which is an artisanal fleet, as the statistical data show – consists primarily of vessels lighter than 10 tonnes.
Similarly, the protection of fish stocks must be more strictly based on scientific information than is the case at present, but we must also actively involve fishermen in the management of fishery resources and liaise with the environmental world in order to raise awareness and call attention to employment issues.
The cooperation –– which, as I have said, was close and effective –– between the rapporteur, Mrs Fraga –– who has done a magnificent job –– and the Commission services, has allowed us to come to this House today with a compromise acceptable to the majority of Parliament, and with a clear message to the sector, which under no circumstances must we break or spoil.
The most important thing is that this cooperation should allow us to unblock a situation which had become unsustainable; unsustainable for the Community institutions, of course, but above all for a sea whose resources have been regarded as over-exploited for some time, but which, owing to its special characteristics, has remained in a permanent state of exception, and it is now time to put an end to that.
The Mediterranean is a different kind of sea: national waters are more limited than in other areas of the Community, fish populations transcend areas and are shared, the general characteristics of the activity are different — there is above all a small-scale fishing fleet and a high proportion of fishermen fish on a part-time basis — there are many small landing sites, etc.
I have only mentioned a few of the characteristics that make the Mediterranean a different kind of sea, but the objectives of the CFP are the same in the Mediterranean as in other Community waters: we must guarantee that live aquatic resources are exploited in a way that allows for sustainable environmental, economic and social conditions.
I would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur and express my hope that we will all benefit from the vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I question whether the EU really is interested in achieving the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources.
The criticism is based on the fact that none of these agreements promotes sustainable fishing and that they are also implemented in a way that does not comply with the FAO’s code of conduct.
If the sustainable development of fishery resources really is a priority issue for the EU, the latter must not only advocate measures in the Mediterranean, as in this report, but also recommend and implement a radical review of its fisheries agreements with third countries.
In this report, Parliament has altered the Commission’s proposal, which does not promote sustainable development, in favour of the fishing industry.
Our shared objective is to achieve sustainability of fisheries in the Mediterranean.
We owe this to our fishermen and also to the maintenance of a sustainable marine ecosystem to be able to support this activity.
We have taken on board the amendments proposed by the Fisheries Committee as a package.
Consultations have been carried out in an extensive manner with representatives of the sector for the Mediterranean, both by the Fisheries Committee and by the Commission.
We will continue to work with our partners in the Mediterranean Sea to convince them of the need to adopt measures along the same lines as ours.
The Community has to set an example.
Once the regulation is adopted, we will work within the GFCM and with individual third countries through our very good relations with them on all fronts, based now on partnership and neighbourhood, to adopt measures on the same lines as these and to have a level playing field for the Mediterranean.
You have come up with a proposal that I will clearly defend in the forthcoming discussions in the Council. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I feel you have been unduly strict with us today.
This will enable the European Community to pass a clear signal to the AIDCP at its Annual Meeting beginning on 13 June 2005, that with the adoption by Parliament of this proposal from the Commission, the European Community is well on the road to completing the necessary internal procedures to becoming a full member of this organisation.
I am pleased to accept a number of amendments suggested by Mr Freitas, notably Amendments 2, 3, 5 and 6.
In particular, these amendments will increase the transparency and simplify the understanding of the content and reasoning behind the need for this Council decision, which will enable the Community to fulfil its international obligations to become a party to regional fisheries organisations where they exist and to defend Community interests in the global fisheries.
Amendment 10 requires that future changes to the tuna tracking and verification system regulation follow a certain process, in contradiction to the appropriate comitology provisions within the regulation.
This is a secondary commercial economic interest that is a consequence of the implementation of part of the AIDCP, and not a core element. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested a balance that I believe can be struck between the conservation of eco-systems and the social and economic interests of the fisheries sector.
The programme on which this Agreement is based, and which the Community intends to conclude, has three key priorities: firstly, to monitor the abundance of dolphins and levels of dolphin mortality linked to tuna fishing in the area covered by the Agreement; secondly, to study the causes of dolphin mortality during fishing operations, whilst at the same time promoting fishing techniques and gear capable of minimising these effects; and thirdly, to study the impact of various fishing models on various species of fish and other creatures in the pelagic ecosystem.
As well as playing an important part in preserving dolphin communities in this region, this Agreement has also helped to preserve the ecosystem as a whole by preserving communities of other species in addition to dolphins, such as sharks, turtles and other aquatic animals often killed, thanks to the use of different fishing gear specially designed to catch these species of tuna.
The issue of certification has been extensively debated in the UN’s Committee on Fisheries and Food and Agriculture Association and in the European Commission, which, as I understand, is in the process of drawing up a communication on the issue of eco-labelling.
For these reasons, and in line with the guidelines of the common fisheries policy, I believe that this programme deserves a favourable opinion from Parliament with regard to the conclusion of this Agreement by the EU.
I also wish to thank the scientists, the organisations, the Commission, of course, and non-governmental organisations such as the World Wildlife Fund, which attended a mini-hearing that I had arranged.
I feel that this mini-hearing helped to convey the importance of this programme and to show that it is possible to have Agreement between fishermen, scientists and politicians on such an important issue.
The Freitas report shows why the governments of 15 countries in Latin America and Central America have joined with the EU and the US to support the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Programme (AIDCP).
EU support for the AIDCP label has posed a significant threat to some NGOs, which have hijacked the international tuna industry and become its de facto regulators.
The AIDCP label received unanimous support in the Committee on Fisheries and I believe that it will be supported by the majority of Members of this House today. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I support this report by Mr Freitas and think that the European Parliament should give a positive response to the report, the proposal for a Council decision and the conclusion by the European Community of the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation programme known as the AIDCP.
I also welcome the fact that the WWF and Greenpeace are supporting and promoting the agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Programme because it is a legally binding instrument that consolidates the results of an effort of interested governments, the tuna industry and the environmental community that, in less than 20 years, has led to a dramatic reduction of the mortality of dolphins in the Eastern Pacific Ocean.
Many of us like to eat tuna and European consumers consume over 530 000 tonnes each year.
I urge colleagues to support this report. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank Mr&#160;Freitas for his constructive work on a report that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will support.
Industrial tuna fishing threatens not only tuna fish stocks but also other species, of which the best known is the dolphin.
The Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Programme came about because a very great many of our people wanted to prevent dolphins from dying as a result of bad fishing methods.
Now that we are making sure that the agreement is implemented in our legislation, it is important for these objectives to be attained.
As my fellow MEPs have described, the work has so far been quite successful.
Amendments&#160;9 and 11 – tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in the committee, where they were supported – are important for ensuring that consumers are not taken in by labelling.
It is therefore no surprise to me to see the EU attempt to sign up to an agreement that has been condemned by dolphin conservationists.
It shows, yet again, that if the EU is the answer it must have been a very stupid question. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to take my turn in congratulating Mr Freitas on his exceptional report on dolphin conservation.
These are thorough reports which respond to the current situation, in order to ensure that we shall have seas with fish in them both now and in the future.
Broken nets spread death and this should worry us.
I should like to say that it is our duty to protect the environment and the report by our honourable friend moves in that direction, which is why we should all vote for it.
We have an obligation to leave fish in our seas for future generations. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Freitas, who has done an excellent job, as we have recognised –– no amendments have been presented –– and also my colleague, Mrs Stihler, who, representing the Socialist Group, has done an excellent job as shadow rapporteur.
Firstly, the main reason for the European Community to be involved in the IATCC and the AIPCD stems from the presence of the European or, if you like, the Spanish, tuna fleet in the Eastern Pacific, where it has been fishing since 1975.
I say this because, in the explanatory statement in Mr&#160;Freitas’s report, the justification appears to be based on other reasons and not on the presence of our fleet in the Eastern Pacific.
Our fleet fishes in the Eastern Pacific and it has, of course, never fished with dolphins, because a Community Regulation prohibits it: Council Regulation No 850/98 of 30 March 1998, Article 33.
The EU signed this Agreement, the AIPCD, on 26 April 1999, it communicated that decision to the trustee of the AIPCD, the United States of America, by means of a verbal note on 8 June 1999, and at that time, the Council considered that signature and that provisional application to be the first steps to its subsequent approval by the EC.
I am therefore of the opinion –– and this is an opinion –– that the report must call –– perhaps the Commission could enlighten us in this regard –– for the definitive ratification of the AIPCD by the European Union, and not its accession to this Convention.
It is important for the Commission to enhance its role in regional fisheries organisations in supporting conservation measures that are put in place not only in European but also in international waters.
The rapporteur and other speakers raised the issue of eco-labelling.
With regard to the ratification process, I have taken note of your comments, and the ratification will probably take place in the near future. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0125/2005) by Mr&#160;Őry, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on social inclusion in the new Member States (2004/2210(INI)). &#160;&#160; . –I am delighted that such broad consensus, encompassing virtually the whole political spectrum, has emerged among the political groups in Parliament concerning the report on social inclusion.
It is because we are barely a year into enlargement and there is no doubt that an increase in momentum, in both social and economic terms, would definitely be in the interests of the Union.
I think we all agree that we do not want a two-speed Europe, a Union where the social protection system is highly developed and of a high standard in one half, while in the other half, it is as full of holes as an Emmental cheese and eroding further, year on year due to government financial difficulties, government budget constraints, restrictive measures and similar difficulties.
This is the only way we can prevent other social groups in the new Member States from falling into social exclusion.
If this were to happen, it would have negative consequences in terms of labour market stability, economic output and social cohesion and would give rise to a whole range of other problems.
The first key element is that it is crucial in terms of our future prospects of catching up to recognising the particularly close link that exists between job creation and the economic policies promoting it, and the social systems that represent the primary pillars of social inclusion.
The second key element in fact is a structural problem.
I am thinking here of the indebtedness of local authorities, which has recently accelerated to a dangerous degree and is closely connected to the fact that local authority finances have been unable to keep pace with the expansion of their social duties.
As a consequence, we now find ourselves in a situation where, for example – if I may cite an alarming case in point – the combined local authority debt of the four ‘Visegrád’ countries has now exceeded the psychological barrier of 10 billion euros.
So, in my opinion, these are the three main areas in which we need to make substantive progress.
It is a very timely and helpful report, which should significantly strengthen our efforts to promote social inclusion across the Union.
The report is also very useful as it draws attention to a number of issues that require greater emphasis and more effort from Member States and the Commission.
The importance of tackling poverty and social exclusion and building a more inclusive Union was reinforced in the conclusions of the recent European Council meeting in Brussels.
In that way our efforts in the areas of economic growth, employment policy and social cohesion can reinforce each other.
The ongoing mid-term evaluation of the EU's social inclusion process will, towards the end of the year, lead to a communication proposing new integrated and streamlined common objectives and working methods for the open method of coordination on social protection and social inclusion.
The points raised in your resolution are a very valuable contribution to the current evaluation of the process.
We have been making significant progress on several issues raised in the report since the Commission and the new Member States prepared their joint memoranda on social inclusion in 2003.
You rightly emphasise the importance of harmonising poverty statistics and criteria defining poverty.
There has been very good cooperation between the national statistics offices and Eurostat in developing our new statistical instrument, the EU Survey on Income and Living Conditions, EU-SILC.
As regards the exchange of good practice, the new Member States have been playing an increasingly active role in the current Community Action Programme on Social Exclusion.
Another important issue raised in the report is increasing the resources available for social inclusion matters.
At the same time, most new Member States are undergoing difficult economic reforms and many are faced with high levels of unemployment.
We have to be realistic and bold in addressing these major structural issues.
Ensuring economic and employment growth will certainly help to increase social cohesion, but investing in social inclusion and human capacity is an essential complementary element in supporting sustainable employment and economic progress.
The report will help ensure that we continue to have a strong social inclusion process. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the signing of the joint memorandums on social inclusion by all of the new Member States and by the Commission marks a clear political commitment aimed at putting the fight against poverty and social exclusion at the heart of every national policy.
Our Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs calls in particular on the Commission to succeed in outlining a common policy in the form of a common theme, a clear policy shared by all of the Member States.
The rapporteur has identified these challenges very clearly, and I would like to congratulate him on his excellent work.
Poverty and the related problem of social inclusion have a specific dimension in the new Member States.
This is not only because the poverty threshold is considerably lower in absolute terms, which means that poverty is ultimately more severe than in the 15 old Member States; it is also because poverty takes on special forms for the women of these countries.
A national report on youth policy which was published in my country yesterday states that the proportion of children facing poverty is 30%, or as much as 40% for those in single families.
It is impossible to ignore the correlation between this figure and the alarmingly high number of early school-leavers: 14% of girls and 18% of boys in Europe in 2004.
When considering implementation of the Lisbon Strategy and the Social Inclusion Strategy, we should bear this in mind. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, there is clearly a very real problem of social exclusion for many people in many of the new Member States.
He is right to flag the need for better education and right to raise the importance of increased funding by central government in this regard.
Finally, I welcome the wisdom of the rapporteur and I congratulate him strongly on his report. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to start by thanking our colleague, Mr Őry, for his excellent report.
I would remind the House that the report he has drafted on social inclusion in the new EU Member States, which we are today discussing together, was approved by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs by a majority of 32 votes to 4.
The European Commission has undertaken a truly difficult task in comparing the state of social exclusion in the 10 new Member States.
I would like to use this occasion to call on its representatives to cooperate as closely as possible in the future and to make use of the resources and knowledge of non-governmental organisations and social partners.
I would also like to mention the fact that although the report that we have before us today describes and endeavours to compare the situations in the 10 new Member States, we must not forget that the threat of poverty and social exclusion is faced by every EU Member State, albeit not to the same degree.
Mr Őry is well aware of this, as am I, since we have both worked in trade unions. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what one might think, today’s debate on the report on social inclusion in the new Member States is very much linked to the urgent issues we have been discussing since the start of this part-session.
An understanding of the most complex social problems faced by the Member States and a desire to solve these problems would render moot many of the arguments put forward by those who voted against the Constitution.
The reason for this is that many issues relating to EU enlargement were either misrepresented to these voters or misunderstood by them.
The Őry report is thus concerned with solutions to problems that have a direct bearing on the EU’s future.
What is more, the fact that the goals of competitiveness and social cohesion as enshrined in the Lisbon strategy are complementary rather than mutually exclusive is emphasised.
This was why the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs underlined the importance of economic development in facilitating social inclusion during its debates on the report, and indeed the Commissioner also stressed this aspect of the issue a short while ago.
On behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Őry on the way in which this report has been drafted.
The report we are debating today is an excellent one, and my group will vote in favour of it. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, my Group supports the report on social inclusion in the new Member States and I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Őry, on his report.
In the majority of the new Member States, the only social stratum benefiting from EU accession is the national, economic and political elite.
As can be seen in the report, the gap between rich and poor has become wider.
The national, economic and political elite is mostly responsible for the current social disintegration in their countries.
However, because they have ignored the unfavourable changes in the new EU Member States, the EU institutions must bear part of the blame.
The social instability in the new Member States is endangering political stability and economic growth not only in those states, but also in the EU as a whole.
This is the result of a number of mistakes made by EU institutions during the enlargement process.
One such mistake was to ignore the fact that in two Baltic States, Latvia and Estonia, a significant part of the population is stateless.
This totally ignores the EU's own recommendations made in 2004 as part of the enlargement process. &#160;&#160; . – I would like to give my opinion on the work of our colleague, Mr Őry.
All this affects the new Member States, which are still being called on to comply fully with a raft of often nonsensical measures, as the previous speaker rightly emphasised.
Social problems principally affect poor regions, regardless of whether these are located in old or new Member States.
In the Czech Republic, in northern Bohemia, say, the rate of unemployment among disabled people has risen from 8% 10 years ago to over 12%, despite the measures that have been taken.
People are being asked to join a society where public services have been shut down, public transport is expensive in spite of ever more threadbare networks, crèches are being abolished and the number of nursery schools reduced, after-school activities are being done away with or scaled down, which often involves high financial demands on parents, and the status of trade unions is worsening, as a result of attempts to abolish the labour code.
All these are manifestations of extreme liberal tendencies.
This is a step in the right direction, but a small and timid one. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, since we are discussing social inclusion, we should not forget that around 150&#160;million EU citizens have an income of less than 75% of the EU average.
Two thirds of these people live in the new Member States.
On behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his accurate depiction of this complex problem, the solution to which is to slash the number of areas of poverty, unemployment and social exclusion.
I should therefore like to thank local governments and NGOs, including in particular Caritas, as well as social welfare institutions and philanthropists for the work they do.
Secondly, there are over 45&#160;million disabled people in the EU.
The weakest in society, and by this I mean whole social classes, have been the least able to find their bearings in the new set-up.
More money is needed to achieve our ambitious goals of social inclusion, job creation and the promotion of entrepreneurship.
The debate will resume this afternoon. &#160;&#160; Csaba Őry's report draws our attention to an important problem.
They are supposed to give greater emphasis to activities aimed at the inclusion of disadvantaged social groups by means of their integration and indeed participation, as this area is the wellspring both of the problems that threaten our social cohesion and of the competitiveness we seek.
After all, the best social policy, without a doubt, is redistribution of employment opportunities across society and provision of labour market training.
I speak from experience when I say that this dimension has so far been completely neglected in the new Member States, where immigration is not yet reflected at the level of communication.
Whilst a debate on the communication in question is not planned, I believe that it is appropriate to give the floor, albeit very briefly, to Mr&#160;Pannella. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I asked to take the floor to raise a point of order, in accordance with Rule 6(2), to which you have referred.
I wished to inform you and the House that this request for waiver, of which you have notified us, must be reconciled with the fact that Parliament already turned down the request for waiver of immunity almost unanimously on 10 February 2004, hence a year and a half ago now.
The competent committee will certainly be able to give its opinion on the merits of the case. &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I may perhaps be a bit late in calling halt, but this is an important question relating to Amendment 15 to paragraph 27.
I believe I just saw that a majority supports our amendment aimed at deleting this paragraph, and I would ask you, if at all possible, to check this again. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Laschet, I do beg your pardon.
I certainly appreciate the merits of the matter but the procedure does not allow me to put to the vote again an amendment that has already been put to the vote and rejected. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Laschet is quite right.
I am the first to regret this but I have to proceed with voting time. &#160;&#160; We believe that it should be up to individual Member States to adopt positions on possible support for the agreement on the conservation of dolphins.
They therefore play an important economic and social role and consequently deserve greater Community support.
Just as in previous reports, however, the emphasis is placed on measures which, under the guise of working towards competitiveness, in reality act against the interests of micro-enterprises and SMEs and work in favour of the large corporations, the large economic and financial groups and the multinationals.
More effective measures must therefore be taken to prevent rising unemployment and worsening standards of living. &#160;&#160; .– European industry is undergoing major hardships at the moment.
The EU must therefore channel all its efforts into a consistent and proactive policy towards its industry, a policy that can both anticipate structural change and develop a sound and competitive industrial base.
European industry has no choice but to invest in its strengths, such as its human potential, its capacity for innovation and its SME-based entrepreneurial fabric, thereby setting itself apart from its competitors.
The Council opted to place the emphasis more firmly on the ‘G’ of Growth than the ‘S’ of Stability, in light of the current economic recession that the EU is experiencing.
What we really need is to suspend the SGP and to make a complete break from the economic guidelines in place in order to create the macro-conditions to revitalise the economy and to create more jobs.
This is a perfect example of a report that loses sight of the underlying reasons behind the ‘no’ vote on the so-called ‘European Constitution’ in France and the Netherlands, and of the need to address the people’s concerns. &#160;&#160; .– The reform of the Stability and Growth Pact proposed to us now is only marginal, but it is no less important as a consequence.
It repeatedly pleads for new legal immigration, while most Member States do not know how to address the problems this already brings with it, such as the level of unemployment and crime among certain groups of immigrants, which is significantly higher than in the indigenous population.
Three key axes must therefore be put in place: - the promotion of legal immigration, as part of a global and horizontal approach, commensurate with each Member State’s actual capacity; special emphasis must be placed on working in tandem with countries of origin and transit, not least by means of information campaigns. - effective integration of immigrants, with reception and integration policies that must take account of the each Member State’s characteristics and historical ties.
A range of common rights for all migrants in the EU should be drawn up, yet we must not lose sight of the fact that excessive ‘generosity’ in granting further rights, such as the right to vote, may result in more resistance and be the source of unwanted xenophobia. - resolutely combating illegal immigration; attempts must be made to put a stop to illegal immigration, if possible in the country of origin, and to problems relating to the economic exploitation of migrants.
That does not, however, prevent Mr&#160;Gaubert from calling, in paragraph 32, for mass regularisation operations in connection with immigrants.
In the face of an ageing European population, matched by a continuously low birth rate and a forecasted decline in the active population of around 20 million between 2005 and 2030, the rapporteur, as a right-wing Member but also as the leader of an ‘anti-racist’ organisation, plans to introduce additional immigration, which will penalise our economy and weaken our national cohesion.
The European demagogues choose to overlook the need for a boost to the European birth rate and for a family policy worthy of the name and the urgent need to adjust our labour market to demand in order to curb unemployment.
Finally, the report fails to address the issue of a radical form of Islam taking root on our soil, with all of the consequences that that entails for women’s rights, security and democracy. &#160;&#160; The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of Mr&#160;Gaubert’s report on legal and illegal migration and integration of migrants.
No, and consequently I have voted in favour. &#160;&#160; We chose in the final vote to vote in favour of the European Parliament’s own-initiative report on patient mobility.
Each country is responsible for its inhabitants’ healthcare.
The report by Mr Bowis on patient mobility and healthcare developments seeks to ensure the patient’s right to seek timely treatment in another Member State, if this is not available in his/her own country or not within a reasonable period of time.
The report also stresses the priority of maintaining and ensuring unrestricted and universal access to the public health service in any EU country, although it is not entirely clear who is going to pay.
We welcome a uniform framework that clarifies the right to seek healthcare in another EU country.
Patients must nonetheless have the right to seek timely treatment in another Member State if this is not available in their own country or not within a reasonable period of time.
The specific nature of health care services justifies, in my opinion, removing health care from what is known as the Bolkestein Directive on services, as provided for by paragraph 4 of the resolution.
In my view only nation states can and should represent their citizens in the United Nations, with each free to determine their own foreign policy.
With the defeated EU Constitution there is now even less justification than ever for this foolish proposal. &#160;&#160; The resolution contains quite a few constructive proposals about the ways in which the United Nations might be reformed, for example through an enlarged and more representative Security Council, more environmental work and an emphasis upon connections between development and the environment.
In spite of this, we cannot support the report because it is simultaneously aimed at strengthening the EU’s common foreign policy, firstly through the demand that the EU countries pursue a common approach to the work on reforming the UN and, secondly, through the proposal that the EU be represented in the Security Council.
The latter proposal clearly shows that the EU is ambitious to act as a state in international contexts, something to which we are clearly opposed.
We would not wish to prejudge the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference. &#160;&#160; – The motion for a resolution on the reform of the UN forms part of efforts by the imperialist powers to conduct a reactionary reform of the founding principles of the UN, in a bid to record and 'legalise' the provisional imperialist rule as 'international law'.
The motion for a resolution and the statements by the Council and the Commission reveal how the ΕU and the USA are operating on the same frequency against the peoples and endeavouring to cloak their aggressive and barbaric policy in the mantle of the UN.
Such a ‘reform’ of the UN would endorse the dangerous concept of pre-emptive warfare; it would be no more and no less than a programme in support of war.
This is one reason why I am very glad that the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left has repudiated this resolution. &#160;&#160; The resolution may be seen as the European Parliament’s wish list in the run-up to the forthcoming EU-US Summit on 20 June 2005 in Washington.
Despite the fact that citizens of the new EU member countries in particular long strived for democracy and liberalism in Europe, and offered strong support to the US in its global pressure for democratisation, citizens of the new Member States are still perceived as a security threat to US home security.
Therefore, I urge the Commission to start negotiations with the US authorities immediately, and tackle this issue as a matter of high political priority in its relations with the US.
The EU's overall policy, including the policy projected through the joint motion for a resolution signed by the 'conservatives' and social-democrat parties, proves that the USA and the EU are two sides of the same coin.
The Greek people must not allow their country to participate in the new imperialist plans. &#160;&#160; The resolution on the situation in Uzbekistan is another example of the European Parliament’s ambition to strengthen the EU’s common foreign and security policy.
For example, they overlook the fact that the years since the establishment of the euro zone have been marked by slow economic and employment growth, rising unemployment rates and a transfer of productivity gains from workers to employers, as well as by the persistence of high levels of unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and income inequality in the EU.
The reform of these social and fiscal policies must be approached in a coherent way, as prerequisites for sustainable development and growth.
Against this backdrop, the reform of the internal market, including the area of the freedom to provide cross-border services, will make it possible to achieve the economic growth that the EU requires if it is to generate more than 70% of the world’s wealth and jobs. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the continuation of the debate on social inclusion in the new Member States. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;Öry’s report is, in my opinion, an important source of proposals, enabling the Commission and Parliament to take up the challenge of enlargement.
In actual fact – and one is well aware of this through the debates currently enlivening the old Member States – the fear of social dumping brought about by enlargement is omnipresent, and, in my opinion, unfounded if adequate elements of a response can be found.
The fight against all forms of poverty and all forms of exclusion is the prerequisite for putting Europe onto the road to social progress.
We had agreed in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that the responses required on the issue of social inclusion were not simply limited to the field of employment, but that they had to include other major social matters: access to education for all, without ethnic or social discrimination, in order to guarantee a common core of knowledge necessary for people to integrate effectively in society; access to quality health care for all: the fact that, even today, people can recover from cancer in one part of Europe and die from influenza in another will never be justifiable; access to housing for all, which is another of the themes of this report: council houses will have to be geographically spread out in an intelligent manner, in order to prevent any form of ghettoisation; the fight against all forms of discrimination, whether sexual discrimination in the workplace, racial discrimination or discrimination linked to disability or social circumstances, will have to be encouraged and supported.
Europe has now to offer protection: in order to progress, it must primarily be able to protect its people.
We therefore need to revitalise our economy and reform our social security systems to lead people back to the labour market and not keep them in the poverty trap.
The more or less permanent exclusion of 10% of our labour force from the labour market is an absolute disgrace to our civilised society.
In fundamental rights policies and notably the fight against discrimination, the EU can and should play a key role.
European values are universal.
Giving children a good start in life and real prospects should be one of the key priorities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the chance to state my opinion on the draft report on social inclusion in the new EU Member States.
It is a fact that certain social groups have more or fewer differences or problems.
Administrative exclusion and preferential treatment for individual groups is not a path towards social inclusion, but towards continued social exclusion.
The report under discussion aims to fight exclusion, and I believe that – paradoxically – we have excluded 10 countries from the 25 Member States, all of which have equal rights, because they joined the European Union several years later.
I firmly believe that, next time, the European Union will also tackle this type of exclusion, and that the next report on social inclusion will evaluate the situation in all the EU Member States.
The draft report refers to the draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
To reiterate a point made by Mr&#160;Cabrnoch and Mrs&#160;in&#160;’t&#160;Veld, however, the report’s exclusive focus on the new Member States is a glaring error, since the problems it discusses affect the EU as a whole.
Similarly, women account for over 60% of doctors in the country, and Poland has more businesswomen in managerial roles than any other country in Europe.
This begs the question of why a distinction has been made in the report between the old and the new Member States.
What is more, acts of anti-Semitism of the sort that occur regularly in France and Germany would also be unthinkable in the new Member States.
The primary cause of social exclusion is destruction of the social fabric, by which I also mean the weakening of the role of religion.
Religion, the Catholic Church and other religious organisations play an enormous role in weaving the social fabric and preventing social exclusion.
Once again, my own country is perhaps the best example of this phenomenon, as both the divorce rate and the suicide rate in Poland are among the lowest in Europe.
The state’s primary task should be to avoid interfering in such matters.
This unfortunate phrase, which I find quite intolerable, now appears to have replaced the term ‘healthy competition’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the French campaigns for the referendum, we repeatedly heard the tenors of the ‘yes’ camp in the Netherlands maintain that, in the enlarged Europe as described by the draft Constitution, there would be little risk of delocalisation, immigration of cheap labour to the richer Member States and unfair competition for SMEs in the older ones.
I am at any rate delighted that this report on social inclusion in the new Member States, maybe quite unintentionally, puts its finger on a number of difficulties, and indicates the immense structural social differences between the new Member States, many of which today are still struggling to come to terms with the catastrophic legacy from Communist times, and the fifteen Member States prior to enlargement.
Although much research has been carried out into social inclusion in Western European countries, the scale of this problem still tends to be underestimated in the new Member States, and these countries lack the tools to measure this phenomenon in a genuinely rational and objective fashion.
In part, of course, this is a legacy of Communism, which was a system that attempted to eliminate social problems and to bestow transient joy on all its citizens by means of decrees.
We are still struggling with the consequences of Communism and its ideology today, and all the countries that were subjected to this system face similar levels of social problems and unemployment.
Our countries are still lacking large-scale and complementary action plans to coordinate measures in the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
Any debate on genuine social inclusion must therefore be preceded by a discussion on how economic growth can be boosted in the new Member States.
I therefore welcome the Commission’s assurances that it will cooperate more closely in the fight against social marginalisation.
Such liberalisation will boost economic growth in Europe as a whole, or in other words in both the old and the new Member States, and hence reduce social problems.
The report discusses social inclusion in the new Member States, yet it does not address the general social problems faced by Europe as a whole.
If I may, I should like to take this opportunity to mention the debate on problems relating to working time and compliance with the principle that all working time must be regarded as legal working time, and that all overtime should be properly remunerated.
My colleagues Mr Cabrnoch and Mr Libicki are quite right to point out that such situations also occur in the EU’s old Member States.
As the community of our Member States is founded upon social values, it must defuse this social timebomb.
In many Member States during the change of regimes and systems, labour rules and the nature of the labour market have also undergone significant change.
Ladies and gentlemen, under a new social and political model, the fight against unemployment and for social inclusion also entail improving the quality of education and lifelong vocational training.
In this context, the promotion of sustainable economic development, including the creation of more and better jobs, within the context of social cohesion, is key to ensuring that people of all States of the EU can be in a single market within a developed Europe that is characterised by solidarity. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new Member States have undergone complex economic transformation over the last ten years, which has had a negative impact on various areas.
The main factors contributing to social exclusion in many of the new EU Member States are high unemployment, almost no labour force mobility and problems relating to the social inclusion of people entering the labour market, women, older people, those suffering ill health, disabled persons and ethnic and linguistic minorities.
In order to boost such growth, I believe that the transitional measures in place on the labour market with regard to the new Member States must be abolished.
No statistical backing has been found for the grounds upon which these measures, which are intended to protect the domestic labour markets of some of the 15 old EU Member States, were introduced.
Education and vocational training systems that function effectively are further factors that boost growth.
A high-quality education system is one that is able to adapt effectively to conditions in a rapidly-changing labour market.
Together with the implementation of this report, these priorities should contribute to an increase in the supply of labour.
An accessible, sustainable and high-quality healthcare system will contribute not only to the fight against disease and vulnerability to social exclusion, but also to the maintenance of a productive labour force.
Implementation of the content of the report on social inclusion in the new Member States can help improve quality of life in the EU Member States.
In reply to Mr Libicki, I should point out that from now on the new Member States will be fully integrated into the process.
Mr Őry and Mr Falbr highlighted the need for cooperation and partnership.
Member States are the key partners in implementing the Lisbon Strategy and their commitment to effective inclusion policies is a key factor for success.
I equally share your view that the efforts of social partners and civil society are absolutely necessary in tackling the problem of poverty and social exclusion.
Parliament’s Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, as well as the Commission, strongly advocate the principle of gender mainstreaming, an approach which is very useful for addressing the specific problems of women, particularly as part of social inclusion policies.
Hence I very much welcome the fact that many new Member States are already applying a gender mainstreaming strategy or including the gender dimension in some of their employment and social programmes.
Even in those new Member States where this has not yet been achieved, the joint inclusion memoranda have highlighted the need to pay more attention in this respect.
The EU is fighting against this phenomenon via the European employment strategy, as well as through specific policies, and rightly so.
I believe, however, that it is more appropriate to request an adjournment at voting time. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, with all due respect to my colleague Mr Őry, I wish to express my strong opposition to that.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at the end of this afternoon’s debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on five motions for a resolution on Bolivia.(1) &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Bolivia is regularly troubled by civil unrest and is currently ‘on the brink of civil war’, in the words of its President, Mr&#160;Carlos Mesa.
Violent clashes between security forces and protestors, calling for economic reform and more rights for indigenous people, have been taking place in the streets of La Paz.
Because we want governability and stability for Bolivia and because our interests are at stake, the Council must instruct its Ambassadors to ensure that Bolivia can find a peaceful, democratic and free solution.
But we in Europe cannot act as if what is happening there had nothing to do with us.
Similarly, the perpetrators of the massacres of October 2003 must be brought to book and we urge the Organisation of American States to take precautionary measures on behalf of the leaders of the social movement who have been threatened, such as Evo Morales and Abel Mamami.
It has been burnt down several times during the many popular uprisings in that country.
Its neighbours include such major countries as Brazil, in respect of which my colleague Mr Deß has done such exemplary work by ensuring that measures are taken to ensure stability, particularly for agriculture, small-scale farmers and independent farms, along with the slow growth of a small business sector.
The Commission has been making a real and practical contribution to supporting dialogue in Bolivia by using our rapid reaction mechanism to provide up to EUR 185 000 to the Club of Madrid to implement a six-month programme of high-level consultancy and support for consensus building and strengthening of leadership skills, which started in mid-April and will continue in the run-up to the long-awaited constituent assembly.
Bolivia has also been included in the list of eligible countries for the European initiative on democracy and human rights for 2005-2006.
In the Bolivian context, projects related to training, monitoring and consciousness-raising in the fields of democracy and human rights, projects that promote the rights of minorities and indigenous peoples and projects that support the role of civil society in conflict prevention are all eligible for support.
The Commission welcomes the motion for a resolution by the European Parliament, which would underline the need for full respect for democracy and the rule of law and would add a further very important EU voice to the calls for dialogue. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place presently, at the end of the debates. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the debate on six motions for a resolution on freedom of the press in Algeria.(1) &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the secretariat of the ALDE Group, to which I belong, for submitting the application so quickly and thus giving me the privilege of being the first to speak in this debate.
In fact, these so-called attacks are no more than the ordinary independent criticisms by political journalists we see on a daily basis in all free democratic countries.
The list is long and the cases of the editor of the daily newspaper , Mr Fouad Boughanem, and the cartoonist, Mr&#160;Hakim Laâlam, who were sentenced by a court in Algiers to two months in prison and fined 250&#160;000 dinars for defamation, are recent examples.
We call upon the Algerian Government to respect the principle of freedom of speech and to stop harassing journalists in an attempt to silence the voices of the democratisation process and the opposition press. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;There is nothing new about problems relating to freedom of the press in Algeria.
Since the early 1990s, journalists and intellectuals in the country have suffered constant pressure, attacks and arrests.
At present, the main problem is that the Algerian state authorities are openly hostile to the private press, and the international community must respond to this threat.
Publishers are constantly in debt to the latter, which means that the state gains even greater control over both the press and the media market as a whole.
All of this would contribute enormously to developing and strengthening the rule of law and conforming to the provisions of Article 2 of the Association Agreement. &#160;&#160; . – The Republic of Algeria is a very important partner for the European Union Member States.
There have always been several linguistic and cultural groups in the country, but alongside this wealth of languages and cultures there is still a sharp divide between the purely Islamist, hard-line Arab and quasi-European approaches, particularly since independence was gained.
Since then, the country has been ruled by the military and bureaucrats who combine their fear of fundamentalism with an Arabic nationalism that is hostile to the Berber minority and turns its back on 130 years of French cultural influence.
The Neighbourhood Policy that the European Union intends to develop cannot be indifferent.
All these issues must be seen against the background of a political dialogue with Algeria that has been relatively neglected in the past.
The ratification of the Association Agreement has created political momentum for a renewed political dialogue on all sensitive matters, including those related to the enforcement of Article 2 of the Agreement regarding the promotion of democracy and the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms.
Once Algeria is ready to enter a new phase in the reinforcement of its bilateral dialogue with its European partners, this preparatory work will be the basis for finalisation of a joint European neighbourhood policy action plan, in which issues such as human rights, democratisation, political and institutional reform will feature prominently.
In the meantime, the Commission will use all the means at its disposal to pursue a constructive dialogue with Algeria on those issues and will continue to encourage the Algerian authorities to abandon their attempt to criminalise defamation. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place presently, at the end of the debates. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the debate on seven motions for a resolution on Azerbaijan.(1) &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Government of Azerbaijan is continuing its crackdown on opposition political groups.
On 21&#160;May, the police and paramilitary forces beat up and arrested participants in a peaceful opposition rally in Baku.
We call on the Government of Azerbaijan, and in particular President Aliyev, to proceed quickly with the necessary electoral reforms and to show the necessary respect for its citizens’ right to free, fair and democratic elections. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I do not want to say very much about this report other than to echo some of the remarks that have been made by the rapporteur.
Since the break-up of the Soviet Union, the South Caucasus countries have clearly been through a very difficult period and some of them are making better progress than others.
In Ukraine and Georgia, popular movements against such authoritarian leaders received support from the West, and rightly so.
In the coming weeks and months, Europe will need to manifest consistent solidarity with the opposition movements that focus their efforts on democratisation from the inside. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Azerbaijan became independent after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, but has lost 16% of its previous territory in a short-lived war over the ethnic Armenian territory of Ngorno Karabakh with neighbouring Armenia and must now support some 570&#160;000 internally-displaced persons.
President Aliyev was elected in October 2003 in a contested and deeply-flawed election condemned by international observers.
The recent unsolved murder of editor-in-chief, Elmar Huseynov, has raised accusations of government involvement and a relative of the exiled former speaker and opposition figure, Rasul Gouliev, the UK citizen Almaz Gouliev, has been arrested on the allegedly trumped-up charge of a pistol being found in her bag, apparently in order to deter Mr Gouliev from returning for the elections.
For example, the true unemployment rate, despite the oil and construction boom, is very high, being estimated at 20% to 30%.
I hope that the Council and Commission will be firm in calling President Aliyev and his political entourage to account about the enormous political risks of repressive policy not merely in a national, but also in a much larger, regional, context. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, no political transition is easy.
Azerbaijan’s difficult economic, social and political situation is a direct outcome of this tense status quo, if only as a result of the large number of refugees and of displaced persons from within the country itself, who are a heavy burden on the country.
By first of all signing an initial Partnership and Cooperation Agreement in 1999 and by integrating it in its new Neighbourhood Policy, the European Union then indicated its willingness to support Azerbaijan in its democratic process.
In view of the fact that we wish above all to support our friends in the South Caucasus, in general, and in Azerbaijan, in particular, we call on President&#160;Aliyev and his Government to make every effort to ensure that the forthcoming legislative elections in November 2005 are conducted in a legitimate and transparent manner and that the opposition candidates can freely conduct their campaigns, in complete safety and with fair access to the media.
Mr Solana, the High Representative, woke up to the situation only when the Ukrainian people took to the streets to demonstrate against the electoral fraud that had been going on.
We should send a delegation of observers and make use of the action plans now coming into force as a means of helping a country that is in a very difficult region, and parts of which are under occupation, yet which is determined to move towards democracy and towards becoming a good European neighbour.
In so doing, we will be serving our own European interests, as well as democracy and the rule of law and human rights, better than if we were simply, with words of harsh criticism, to lay into countries with whose circumstances we are insufficiently familiar. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I echo the fine speech of my Group colleague, Mrs Isler Béguin, in stressing how important the timing of this resolution is to Azerbaijan as it faces elections.
The logical result of this social tension is the undemocratic measures taken by the government that are criticised in the resolution under debate.
We should support the development of common democratic values in this Caucasian republic, and not allow the mediaeval Islamist forces to be given the green light. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;Today we are discussing violations of human rights and democracy in Azerbaijan.
As Pope John Paul&#160;II once said, the warped idea of freedom as entirely unencumbered liberty and licence still poses a threat to democracy and free societies.
The situation in this country is worrying.
The fight for democracy in Azerbaijan is also a fight for stability, of which there is an urgent need in the country.
Azerbaijan must make good use of these developments and move towards democratisation.
The mass arrests have, in fact, deprived of their leadership the political opposition and the local human rights watch organisations challenging the patently fraudulent election.
Some Members have asked if we should send a team of observers to the forthcoming parliamentary elections in Azerbaijan.
Human rights, fundamental freedoms, genuinely democratic elections and democratisation will be amongst the main priorities of this document, which will provide overall guidance for future relations between Azerbaijan and the European Union.
Last but not least, the Commission is also providing financial support through its European initiative for democracy and human rights.
The Commission will continue to use all the means at its disposal to pursue effective protection of human rights in Azerbaijan and to make sure that the democratisation of the country progresses smoothly in the near future. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The rapporteur has given a detailed account of the basic challenges faced by the new Member States in fighting poverty and social exclusion.
The EU’s progress will depend on its approach to the fundamental rights of the EU citizens who are most at risk, and who mainly live in the 10 new Member States.
This approach should be guided by social inclusion and the fight against all forms of discrimination. &#160;&#160; One report is on employment and productivity and their contribution to economic growth, and the other is on social inclusion in the new Member States.
It is a good idea, however, to revise the rules because the problems arising from the free migration of labour from the new EU countries have been dramatically exaggerated.
