European Crime Prevention Network (EUCPN) - Rules on the confidentiality of Europol information - Implementing rules governing Europol's relations with partners, including the exchange of personal data and classified information - List of third States and organisations for Europol agreements - Implementing rules for Europol analysis work files - Accreditation of forensic laboratory activities (debate) Τhe next item is the joint debate on the following reports: by Mr Kirkhope, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft Council Decision adopting the rules on the confidentiality of Europol information [11943/2009 - C7-0105/2009 -; by Mrs in 't Veld, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft Council Decision adopting the implementing rules governing Europol's relations with partners, including the exchange of personal data and classified information [11944/2009 - C7-0106/2009 -; by Mr Albrecht, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft Council Decision determining the list of third States and organisations with which Europol shall conclude agreements [11946/2009 - C7-0107/2009 -; by Mr Diaz de Mera Garcia Consuegra, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft Council Decision adopting the implementing rules for Europol analysis work files [11947/2009 - C7-0108/2009 -; by Mrs Alfano, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Czech Republic, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Republic of Hungary, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on a Council Decision setting up a European Crime Prevention Network (EUCPN) and repealing Decision 2001/427/JHA [11421/2009 - C7-0109/2009 -, and by Mr Kirkhope, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the Kingdom of Sweden and the Kingdom of Spain with a view to adopting a Council Framework Decision on Accreditation of Forensic Laboratory Activities [11419/2009 - C7-0100/2009 -.
Firstly, I would like to focus on Timothy's report on the draft Council Decision adopting the rules on the confidentiality of Europol information.
However, without prejudice to the overall support of the European Police Office, with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and its effects on police cooperation, the rapporteur, and his fellow rapporteurs in the LIBE Committee, feel that there should be no amendments to the measures implementing the Europol decision until such measures can be adopted under the new legal framework provided by the Treaty of Lisbon.
The legal clarity regarding LIBE reports is unclear in light of the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This report will be submitted at a later date under a legal basis that is clear.
I therefore endorse the proposal made by the previous speaker to ask the Council to withdraw the proposals on Europol and present a new proposal within a maximum of six months - and preferably earlier - under the Lisbon Treaty.
Finally, when it comes to the specific subject that I am rapporteur for - which is Europol and the transfer of personal data and confidential documents to third parties - I would like to hear from the Council - which is absent - on how it feels about the analysis made by the European Parliament's Legal Service to the effect that the legal basis chosen for this particular proposal is the wrong one.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I can agree with the previous speakers in so far as I think that it would only be sensible for the Council to present its proposals concerning Europol to the European Parliament once again, on the basis of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The European Parliament's joint and decisive rejection of the provisions proposed by the Council, pertaining to Europol's work, is a clear signal that amendments to the legal basis now have to be applied.
While there is now closer cooperation between the security forces throughout the world, there is no international consensus on minimum standards in relation to fundamental rights and legal protection.
We are not merely talking about countries such as Norway or Switzerland, but also the United States, Russia, and even Morocco or China.
Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, the Europol package is made up of four draft decisions that seek to implement the Council Decision of 6 April 2009.
This network was set up in 2001 by Council Decision 2001/427/JHA.
In consequence, the network appointed a working group to examine the recommendations made in March 2009 and took the view that certain amendments needed to be made to the Act that created the network.
First, it has been unable to fulfil the objectives for which it was created; second, there has been no cooperation between the Commission, the Council and Member States, and I believe that this must be regarded as a sort of sabotage of the network itself.
The failure to involve civil society and NGOs, or to develop materials on prevention such as books for schools, makes this network completely ineffective.
Nevertheless, I would now like to shed some light on these three dossiers for the benefit of Parliament.
Once again, I understand that Parliament wants a different basis for this framework decision on the accreditation of forensic laboratory activities.
Again, I am aware of the problems with the legal basis.
Like Parliament, the Commission believes that the framework decision, insofar as it refers to services under Article 50 of the founding treaty of the European Community, should have Article 50 as its legal basis.
We in the Commission have made a declaration that is contained in the minutes of the JHA council meeting of 23 October 2009.
Regarding this accreditation, although I understand Parliament's position, I also think that it goes mainly in the right direction and respects all the views that have been expressed in this House.
I understand that Europol is already working with them, and I want it to continue to do so, because I want Europol to move forward.
It firstly concerns the substance and secondly the procedure, and I will repeat some of what has already been very well expressed by all the political groups.
Regarding the procedure, at the risk of sounding repetitive, I would like to assure the Commissioner, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, that all the work carried out has not been in vain.
For once in Europe, it is vital that we wait a few weeks until we have a text that respects our procedural framework and, like Mrs in 't Veld, I am sorry not to see the Council here with us because this is primarily a Council matter.
Before the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament has been asked, under the urgency procedure, to examine four texts on Europol and the issue of protecting the confidentiality of data passed on by Europol, including to third countries.
We in this Parliament unanimously condemn the way in which we have been requested to examine these texts when they concern issues that will most certainly be a matter for codecision after the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force.
Many of us believe that our citizens have a right to security and that the fight against terrorism is a priority.
In my opinion, we should stop this attack on data protection. (FR) Mr President, allow me first to express my congratulations and thanks to the Vice-President of the Commission for everything he has done as the Commissioner responsible for this area.
In this office, there are a number of police officers who are carrying out excellent work in this area in collaboration with police officers in other EU Member States.
For these reasons, but also to maintain the independence of Parliament, which must work within the necessary time limits, I believe that the Council's proposal in its present form must be rejected by the requested deadline of 30 November. (DE) Mr President, I would like to join Mr Busuttil in thanking the Vice-President of the Commission, Commissioner Barrot, for the work he has carried out.
The current assessment has shown that the network has not made the most of the opportunities which might have been given.
We, the European Parliament, have only one option: we must reject these proposals, as we want a broad public debate and we want to use our strengthened rights to support the citizens now, rather than in the near or more distant future. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this evening's very interesting debate has helped us to understand some very important points, particularly concerning the European Crime Prevention Network.
A great Italian judge, Giovanni Falcone, who was murdered by the Mafia, used to say that the latter was a phenomenon that had a beginning and an end.
The end must consist of a huge mobilisation in cultural terms, and it must start in Europe and in Parliament.
The Council has decided that it will, in any case, adopt the texts of the Europol package on 30 November, without waiting for Parliament to obtain the power of codecision on this matter with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 December.
I hope for this reason that the Council will launch initiatives as soon as possible and produce a new document as soon as possible in which the European Parliament will also have considerable involvement.
Despite the fact that I wanted to talk more about forensic laboratories, Mr President, I would like to say in conclusion that it is definitely not my ambition to inflate the importance of the European Parliament, but I consider it absolutely unprecedented that no representative of the Council was able to find the time to come here and listen to our views. (PL) Mr President, speaking as a law graduate and former police officer, I would like to stress the importance of the Council framework decision, whose objective is to oblige all forensic laboratories supplying the results of genetic and fingerprint tests to observe the ISO 17025 international standard.
The same work will be waiting for us, and so in relation to this, I would like to call attention in particular to Article 15 of the Council Decision adopting the implementing rules governing Europol's relations with partners, including the exchange of personal data and classified information.
Everything I have done over the past five years has been thanks to Parliament's support.
deputising for the rapporteur. - Mr President, we have had a very good debate this evening.
I agree totally with Sophia in 't Veld.
rapporteur. - Mr President, before I make my intervention, I, too, would like to extend my gratitude to Commissioner Barrot.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Commission for its work in relation to Europol, and I would like once again to state that this is not a question of hindering the process of transforming Europol into an EU agency.
A debate on the rights of citizens is needed at parliamentary level throughout Europe, as is a debate on the effectiveness of our security policy.
Firstly, we are talking about the crime prevention network, secondly about the forensic laboratories, and we are also talking about four reports on Europol.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Members who have taken part in this debate.
In the few months that I have been in Parliament, I have noted that Parliament and the European Union have accorded an extraordinary degree of importance to the fight against terrorism, while sadly there is a lack of will to address not only the fight against crime, but the organised crime that is at the root of it.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 24 November 2009.
It is therefore necessary for any amendment to the measures implementing the Europol decision to be adopted within the new legislative framework envisaged by the Treaty of Lisbon.
