Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote - (PL) Mr President, the new directive on waste is intended to provide a basis for the creation of a society in Europe that is universally engaged in recycling.
It is worth pointing out that the old Member States have had far more time to adapt their waste management systems to the stringent requirements, while the new ones are being forced to introduce legal mechanisms and build the necessary infrastructure a lot more quickly.
The proposal for a new directive on waste is causing much controversy in many European countries.
I voted in favour of the directive basically because it adopted the hierarchy principle, and I hope that in future we can improve on it. (SK) The consumer society produces a huge amount of waste that makes people's lives a misery, particularly in large European cities.
While the approved compromise package is not perfect, I consider the text of the directive to be a politically ambitious instrument in the area of waste management for future generations of Europeans, which is why I supported the report by the rapporteur, Mrs Caroline Jackson.
The Member States will have to improve their waste management in accordance with this directive.
It gave me great pleasure to vote on the directive on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank my 610 fellow Members who supported the adoption of this directive by voting in favour of it.
It is now up to the governments whether or not we will be able to put an end to the over-pollution of the River Raba and other European rivers in a similar situation.
I welcome the report by my colleague, Mrs Doyle, and I voted in favour of it today.
I hope that in this year the Commission will focus on regions where poverty and social exclusion are at their most acute.
This document is an example of the social sensitivity of the European Union and the creation of a European social model that we are building in parallel with actions promoting greater economic growth and a functioning market economy.
It is important for us to devote so much space to countering exclusion and poverty among children, the elderly and the disabled, in other words those who are not in a position to avoid this situation.
None of us here wants to see an increase in poverty; none of us here wants to see an increase in social exclusion.
So, the words are good and in a sense I echo my colleague on the other side of the Chamber in that.
And that is a question for each national government in the Member States.
In Britain today, maybe in other countries too, we face a threat of a real recession, real poverty and real social exclusion getting worse, and it is now up to our Government in Britain and to the governments of all the Member States of the European Union to recognise this factor and to act accordingly. (SK) I am taking this opportunity - which is so precious for myself and for my country, Slovakia - to say thank you to all the Members who voted for Slovakia's accession to the eurozone.
I am glad that all the Slovak Members managed to persuade the European Parliament, with the help of the balanced report by our colleague, Mr David Casa, that Slovakia belongs in the successful 'e' club.
It is because of them that the Slovak people can build a strong Slovakia in a strong Europe today. (CS) Mr President, I sincerely congratulate Slovakia on its accession to the eurozone.
I also want to express my gratitude for the work done by the rapporteur, Mr Casa, who in Parliament had to deal with arguments concerning the justification for the revaluation of the Slovak currency and so on.
If they decide it is in their country's interests to enter the single currency, that is their national entitlement and they have made their decision accordingly.
It is for them to make that decision and their democratic vote should be respected.
Winston Churchill said, 'Trust the people'.
I just have to say thank you to the people of Ireland for giving democracy a chance again in the European Union.
I rise on this because I too abstained, since it is my party's policy not to vote on these matters as we are not included in them.
However, if you meet a humble punter living in Daventry or Long Buckby, they will tell you that the price of their petrol has increased by way more; the price of their food has increased by way more; the price of their Council tax has increased by way more.
There are other problems in paragraphs 8 and 9, but these all go to explain why it is a very good idea that Britain is not in this club.
Nevertheless, I wish this country well. - (PL) Mr President, I abstained from voting on Mr Harangozó's report.
Vulnerable groups and communities should receive our support in the fight against exclusion and inequality.
A territorial approach is important but does not, after all, invalidate the significance of effectiveness in cohesion policy. - (PL) Mr President, the Harangozó report accepted today raises the exceptionally important problem of the impact of cohesion policy on the integration of the most threatened societies and groups.
Intra-regional differences in the level of development are very great.
I would like to make two or three points as to why I did so.
My comments are also relevant to the Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou report on poverty and social exclusion.
Please look at the excellent work, for example, of the Centre for Social Justice based in London in my own constituency and led by Iain Duncan-Smith and his wonderful team, who are building an alliance of local community organisations tackling poverty and social exclusion: organisations such as the Croydon Caribbean Credit Union or the London Boxing Academy, attracting some of the most vulnerable people in society.
While the issues in the report are all serious problems, we should remember that the solutions are often to be found closer to home, and for this reason I abstained on the Harangozó report. (CS) Mr President, the sustainable development policy has no chance of succeeding unless it assumes a global dimension.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - I supported the reports of Lidia Joanna Geringer de Oedenberg and I welcome the idea that at times when the European Union is facing major political decisions, we should not occupy ourselves with technical issues in excessive depth.
in writing. - (SV) I voted against the report, because detailed technical regulation of this kind should not be handled at this level.
It should be dealt with by technical committees through technical standards (there should be no codification of legislation, which should be withdrawn in favour of technical standards).
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of the resolution regarding Romania's accession to the Convention of 23 July 1990 on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises, because I consider it necessary to reduce the fiscal burden for tax payers.
It is very important for Romania and Bulgaria to join the Arbitration Convention as soon as possible and, consequently, to join the other Member States for which the Convention is already in force.
I would like to express my concern regarding the retroactive implementation of the Arbitration Convention as of 1 January 2007 and, for this reason, I support the proposal for the effective date to be the day following the date of publishing the Decision in the EU Official Journal.
in writing. - (SV) The Moderate Delegation in the European Parliament has today voted in favour of the report by Agustín Díaz de Mera García Consuegra (PPE-DE, ES) on the exchange of information from criminal records between Member States and on the content of the information exchanged.
We therefore support the framework decision and increased cooperation to simplify and render more effective the exchange of information on convictions between Member States.
This proposal regarding the organisation and exchange of criminal record information between Member States is intended to improve communication between judicial authorities.
I therefore support the excellent report by my colleague Mr Díaz de Mera, as well as the proposed amendments, namely regarding data protection.
The Fourniret affair is a distressing and painful example of this.
This initiative sets out to improve communication between judicial authorities and to ensure that Member States' requests regarding the criminal records of citizens of other Member States 'are replied to properly and in a comprehensive, exhaustive fashion'.
We recognise the need for mechanisms enabling the reciprocal transmission of information on criminal records between different Member States, yet this needs to be done on a case-by-case basis and within a framework of cooperation between the said States.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Díaz de Mera García Consuegra report on the exchange of criminal record information between Member States.
in writing. - (DE) In a European Union with open borders, good cooperation between the authorities is necessary in order to be able to keep up reasonably well with the fight against crime.
in writing. - (SV) The European Parliament's amendments improve the legislation, but at the same time I do not want to vote for its implementation.
This Regulation aims to ensure a high level of protection against counterfeiting and falsification of the euro, laying down measures necessary for its protection through checking notes and coins for authenticity and fitness for circulation.
According to the most recent statistics, roughly 561 000 counterfeit notes and 211 100 counterfeit coins were withdrawn from circulation in 2007.
This draft Council decision, stemming from a request from the Court of Justice, is intended to add a provision to the Court's Rules of Procedure concerning the use of languages in the review procedure in accordance with Article 64 of the Court's Statute.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to give our full support to the compromise which has been worked out between the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers.
Parliament has insisted on targets for re-use and recycling of waste.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur that in some states, and especially where the move away from tipping has only just begun, obtaining energy from waste may be dominant and may discourage investment in other processes, such as recycling or reuse.
Meanwhile, there are plans to build incinerators to handle 250 000 tonnes of waste a year - more than is produced by a city.
The compromise proposal of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on waste management is a significant volte-face for the sake of the huge, hidden financial interests involved in refuse and waste.
The proposed directive does not contribute to an overall reduction in the volume of waste.
Responsibility should be taken at government, regional and local level to sort and separate toxic and other hazardous substances (dioxins etc.) and there should be as much recycling as possible.
I voted in favour of Mrs Jackson's recommendation for second reading on the revision of the framework directive on waste, as I believe that this proposal will help reduce the environmental and socio-economic impacts of waste management, bearing in mind that the reduction, prevention, re-use and recycling of waste need to be priorities throughout the European Union.
I voted for Amendment 82 because I support more ambitious targets for waste recycling for all Member States, in order to ensure an effective European waste prevention policy.
In this second reading, the European Parliament is insisting that the Council accept amendments that were already adopted at first reading.
Key amendments were the introduction of targets for recycling and waste prevention and the setting up of a five-stage waste hierarchy as a general rule.
The Council removed all references to targets but the rapporteur has restored Parliament's amendments in a modified form.
There should be a real link between the directive and the aspirations about recycling and prevention set out in the Thematic Strategy on Waste Prevention and Recycling.
In some Member States as much as 90% of household waste ends up at landfill sites.
The guiding principle was also the approach I adopted in my amendment, and I thank Mrs Jackson for her support in different ways during the whole process.
She realised that energy from waste treatment plants is only a partial answer to the EU's energy shortage, and felt compelled to say that in some of the Member States energy use is regarded as a threat to recycling.
We would make considerable progress on this by introducing binding recycling and re-use targets by 2020 of 50% for household waste and 70% for construction and demolition.
in writing. - (RO) The purpose of revising this directive is to create a homogenous and coherent legislative framework, connected with the objectives of the Strategy on the prevention and recycling of waste so that Europe becomes a recycling society with an increased level of efficiency in using waste resources.
The following shall be established: • A 5-step waste management hierarchy: prevention, reuse, recycling, energy recovery and waste disposal (including storage); • Measures/plans for the prevention of waste generation; • Mandatory recycling targets for municipal waste, as well as construction and demolition waste; • Increased responsibility of the manufacturer to supply information to the public regarding the possibilities to reuse and recycle products.
I voted for the revision of the Waste Framework Directive because all these measures shall contribute to the creation of new jobs, safer and more durable waste management, rational use of national resources and adjustment to climate change (development of non-ETS sectors).
Europe has been faced with some very ambitious targets.
I would like to make you aware that the new Member States already have problems complying with Community standards for municipal waste management.
It is worth pointing out that the 'old' Member States have had far more time to adapt their waste management systems to the stringent requirements, while the new ones are being forced to introduce legal mechanisms and build the necessary infrastructure a lot more quickly.
The proposal for the new directive is causing much controversy in many countries, as its implementation will have major consequences for the economy.
The new Directive on waste will force countries that have neglected municipal waste management to take decisive action.
The new directive should be a stimulus to the development of new ways of creating jobs.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supported some 30 compromise amendments, but also tabled further-reaching amendments seeking to tighten up the text with regard to hazardous waste, the treatment of bio-waste, 'end-of-waste status' and the concept of by-products and waste that has ceased to be waste.
Recycling and re-use targets may have been laid down at 50% and 70% and Member States may well be required to take legislative action, but the targets are not legally binding in themselves.
in writing. - (NL) Mr President, Belgium has been a forerunner on waste policy for years and so, personally, I would have preferred a rather more ambitious text.
I voted in favour of Mrs Laperrouze's recommendation for second reading on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy, given that good surface water chemical status in the European Union is an essential condition for protecting human health and the environment.
Yet we know that Article 16 of the Framework Directive, lists various obligations relating to the Commission's drawing-up of proposals, including specific measures to combat water pollution by individual pollutants or groups of pollutants that pose a significant risk to or via the aquatic environment, establishing a list of priority substances, including priority hazardous substances and also setting quality standards applicable to the concentrations of priority substances in surface water, sediment and biota.
Hence our abstention.
in writing. - (DE) When it comes to water, our liquid gold, it is essential for the future that we preserve its quality and never slacken our efforts to protect it.
This proposal aims to ensure a high level of protection against the risks that such priority substances (and a few other pollutants) pose to the aquatic environment and it therefore lays down some environmental quality standards.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou report and in particular welcome the additional role given to the European Maritime Safety Agency.
in writing. - (PL) I am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the minimum level of training of seafarers - C6-0348/2007 -.
The rapporteur also points out that as the ultimate goal is human health protection, a more consistent approach is required for the risk analysis and control of residues of pharmacologically active substances, which may appear in food produced in or imported into the European Union.
in writing. - The proposed simplifications of the regulations dealing with pharmacologically active substances in foodstuffs of animal origin are to be welcomed and, accordingly, I supported Mrs Doyle's report.
in writing. - (SV) We expect the Member States of the EU to act continuously to combat poverty.
The EUR 17 million set aside for the European Year would do more good in the hands of the poorest members of society.
in writing. - (RO) I supported, by voting, the proposal for a decision regarding the designation of the year 2010 as the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
In addition to the priority actions mentioned in the proposal for a decision, we consider it absolutely necessary to introduce a minimum guaranteed salary in all the EU Member States for an efficient fight against poverty.
Due to the 2005 introduction of the single tax rate by the right-wing government, an excessive polarization of society has occurred, as well as an increase in poverty.
In 2007, only 5% of the Romanian employees earned more than 2000 RON, approximately 500 Euros.
We take a negative view of several points in the Commission's proposal and, not least, in the European Parliament's report which, among other things, highlights the value of structural support and the need for the EU to provide support to extremely remote regions.
We also take a critical view of the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, an awareness-raising year which features prominently in the report in question.
The Scottish government's commitment is wholly in keeping with the principles outlined in the Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou report which I happily supported.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, I am in favour of the proposal for the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion (2010).
In her report, however, my colleague Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou has added what I think are a few essential elements to the Commission's otherwise excellent draft text.
Although the fight against poverty and social exclusion is a priority and must be supported, despite all of these pious hopes, Europe will have done nothing to improve the lives of the 78 million Europeans living below the poverty threshold.
Despite its lack of success, I hope that 2010 will help awaken Europeans' awareness of the need for greater social cohesion.
I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - 2010 will be the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
I am in favour of 2010 being proclaimed European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
It is our moral duty to increase social awareness of this matter.
The European Year should make people aware of the existence of poverty and social exclusion in Europe and convey the message that they have a destructive impact on social and economic development.
Our task is to achieve stable economic growth by 2010, with a greater number of better jobs and greater social cohesion.
I am voting in favour of Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou's report.
The European Parliament decided to support the position of the Commission and the Council on Slovakia's wish to adopt the single currency on 1 January 2009, although it does have some concerns about discrepancies between the convergence reports of the Commission and the ECB as regards the sustainability of inflation.
Hence our abstention.
The consequences in Portugal are well known and prompt us to oppose this in a clear-cut fashion.
in writing. - (PL) Slovakia is the first country of the former Communist bloc to wish to enter the euro area, as of 1 January 2009.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Casa report relating to the adoption of the euro in Slovakia.
Slovakia, a country of just over five million people, has been independent for a mere 15 years.
In that short time, Slovakia has developed both politically and economically and now the country is in a position to join the eurozone.
I voted in favour of the Casa report on the adoption by Slovakia of the single currency on 1 January 2009, in which the European Parliament is won over by the positive recommendations of the Commission, the ECB and the Council.
Slovakia has in fact made huge efforts to meet the Maastricht and convergence criteria.
In terms of inflation, the European Parliament has expressed its concern over the sustainability of inflation in Slovakia in the medium and long term, as identified in the last ECB Convergence Report.
However, it is our view that the Slovak Government could take the necessary measures to avoid inflation escalating after it joins the euro area.
It would therefore be unfair to penalise Slovakia for its struggle to meet criteria that even euro area members will not fulfil in 2009.
in writing. - (DE) I abstained from voting on the introduction of the single currency in Slovakia on 1 January 2009, because I have doubts about whether Slovakia's currency policy is free of manipulation.
It is clearly visible in the new Member States.
Although Małopolska is ranked fourth in the country in terms of GDP, unemployment is a problem there - and it mainly affects the rural populace.
in writing. - (SV) The Moderate Delegation in the European Parliament has today voted against the own-initiative report of Gábor Harangozós (PSE, HU) on the impact of cohesion policy on the integration of vulnerable communities and groups.
it declines to underline the need to support less-favoured regions, areas with permanent structural disadvantages, outermost regions and areas affected by industrial restructuring, relocations or company closures, in order to strengthen economic and social cohesion and the social inclusion of vulnerable communities and groups?
It also notes the importance of regional and local authorities as well as the economic and social partners and relevant NGOs in developing strategies to combat social exclusion.
However, this house failed to adopt my own group's amendment relating to the Social Agenda and, accordingly, to citizens' rights to a minimum income and to access to education and training.
It is based on the principle of solidarity and is intended to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between Member States and their 268 regions.
In some cases intra-regional inequalities are of greater importance than disparities between regions.
Let us not forget that the objective and founding principle of European regional policy is to reduce developmental differences between individual areas in the European Union, and the phenomenon of territorial exclusion has still not been properly taken into account in political instruments.
In the new Member States, social segregation and deficiencies in the sphere of ensuring equal opportunities arise most often in rural areas, whereas economic and social initiatives in regions are usually focused on dynamic targets - mainly urban centres.
in writing. - (PL) What is needed in EU policy on West Africa is coherence between development policy for these regions and fisheries policy in the area, and the level of utilisation of timber resources, which is linked to the afforestation of this area and its impact on climate change.
Timber and fish can be said to represent two key products for West Africa's economic and social development.
