On 14 November the Commission published the communication on environmental inspections in the Member States.
It states that the scope of the recommendation is inadequate and that it does not include many important activities such as Natura 2000 and the control of illegal waste shipping.
Firstly, I would like to clarify that the views presented in the Commission's communication of November 2007 do not exclude the possibility of the Commission presenting a proposal for a directive on environmental inspections in the future.
For example, in the Seveso II Directive, we have provisions on inspections of installations in order to prevent accidents.
As regards the idea of transforming IMPEL into an EU environmental inspection force, IMPEL was created as an informal network of Member States' inspection authorities.
It is extraordinary that nine years after the Landfill Directive came into force, Spain is now being prosecuted before the European Court of Justice for having 60 000 illegal landfills, taking up more than half-a-million tonnes of illegally dumped waste.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Madam President, on behalf of my group and as a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, may I express my full support for the questions.
The Commission's Communication of November 2007 does indeed give rise to many controversies and to doubts among all those concerned about the environment and those who wish environmental law not simply to be made in the European Parliament, but to be enforced, and to be enforced in the spirit in which it was intended.
This is stipulated in Article 249 of the Treaty of Rome, which specifies the differences between a directive and a recommendation.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, I wish to thank the honourable Members for their remarks and observations concerning environmental issues, which are so sensitive, as we are all in favour of improving the environment.
The question is where to have those binding requirements as regards the transformation of IMPEL into a European inspection force.
