Free Trade Agreement with the Gulf Cooperation Council (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Helmuth Markov, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the recent developments in negotiations on the free trade agreement between the European Union and the Gulf Cooperation Council - B6-0020/2008).
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, some may say that negotiations on the Free Trade Agreement with the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council have lasted for 17 years.
We now hope to be able to have the next round in early May, at the same time as the EU-GCC Joint Committee meeting, which is scheduled for 6 May.
The EU-GCC FTA negotiations took into account the results and conclusions of a sustainability impact assessment study which was carried out between 2001 and 2004.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Madam President, the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the European Community and the Gulf Cooperation Council has been the subject of negotiations since 1988 and it would seem that they will soon be concluded for once and for all.
on behalf of the ALDE group. - (RO) The discussion on the evolution of negotiations for the Free Trade Agreement between the European Community and the Gulf Cooperation Council caught my attention, taking into account the visit I recently made to the region, together with the European Parliament Delegation for Relations with the Gulf States.
I also accept wholeheartedly that any FTA we negotiate is going to be an improvement on the 1989 Cooperation Agreement, and as you yourself, Commissioner, reminded us and Ms Doyle has just repeated, I welcome the fact that the FTA does contain a number of non-trade clauses on subjects such as human rights, migration, counter-terrorism and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
The Commission has already told us - and we could have anticipated this - that this is because we are negotiating on the basis of an old negotiating mandate, a mandate that has not been updated since 2001.
I must say that I am particularly concerned - Mr Carnero has mentioned the situation of women, and that is a concern that I share - but I am particularly concerned about the rights of migrant workers in the Gulf States.
How will the Commission plan to implement that promise? (FR) Madam President, as already stated, the European Union has been negotiating the conclusion of a free trade agreement with the Gulf Cooperation Council for nearly 20 years.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) As a member of the European Parliament Delegation for Relations with the Gulf States, I would like to emphasize the importance of signing the Free Trade Agreement between the European Community and the Gulf Cooperation Council as soon as possible.
