This year alone, three journalists have been killed, at least 95 others have been attacked and dozens, if not hundreds, of correspondents have been forced to flee after being intimidated for writing articles that are deemed to be 'un-Islamic'.
author. - (PL) Mr President, Bangladesh is an important partner for the European Union.
The creation of the caretaker government headed by President Iajuddin Ahmed was met with protests from Bangladeshi society.
According to reports by external observers and the Awami League, the authorities illegally increased the voting lists for the upcoming elections by 13 million surnames.
The caretaker government must guarantee free elections which comply with international standards.
Meanwhile, the situation is as follows: last year three journalists were killed and nearly 100 people were victims of intimidation or sustained physical injuries.
The impression is that everything that has been achieved in terms of democracy in the country is disappearing as a result of the growing violence on the part of Islamic fundamentalists.
The Council and the European Commission should systematically monitor the human rights situation in Bangladesh.
author. - (DE) Mr President, it was a fortnight ago that it all started, when the outgoing prime minister of Bangladesh, Khaleda Zia, made a controversial address on the television, whereupon violent clashes broke out in the capital, Dhaka, in which three people were killed and hundreds injured.
The opposition charged Zia with filling the key posts in her interim government with sympathisers, accused the head of the electoral commission of being biased and asserted that there were 13 million invalid names in the electoral register.
More violence broke out at the beginning of this week, with all transit routes to Dhaka by land or water being blockaded, journalists attacked and seriously wounded, 20 000 members of the security forces firing tear gas and rubber bullets in street battles, all of which left seventeen people dead and thousands injured.
author. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, a few weeks ago, the European Parliament, in the context of its interparliamentary delegation for relations with the countries of South Asia, invited over a great many representatives of Bangladeshi civil society, and it was very interesting.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, it must be a top EU priority to ensure free and fair elections next year in Bangladesh, a traditionally secular and democratic country of 140 million people.
The NGO Task Force against Torture has documented over 500 cases of torture and intimidation by radical Islamists who have also murdered supporters of the Communist Party.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at the end of the debate.
