Azerbaijan: freedom of expression The next item is the debate on seven motions for a resolution on freedom of expression in Azerbaijan.
Given this intelligent political strategy, in my view, it is inappropriate to hold this urgent debate on two young bloggers sentenced following events for which proceedings are still ongoing while we overlook other situations that are truly tragic, such as the recent massacre of 57 people who had come together to support a presidential election candidate in the Philippines.
When, on 11 November this year, Europe marked the anniversary of the end of the First World War, in Azerbaijan, a sentence of several years' imprisonment was passed on some journalists who had dared to write about the country's widespread corruption and unemployment.
Reporters Without Borders say Azerbaijan is in 146th place out of 175 countries surveyed in terms of freedom of speech.
In this context, last year's refusal by the authorities in Azerbaijan to grant concessions to foreign media, such as the BBC and Radio Free Europe, should not surprise anyone.
Today we highlight the case of Emin Milli and Adnan Hajizade, which represents a crackdown on free media, free expression and civil society that is much deeper and wider than the case of merely two bloggers, as they have been called.
The resolution was prompted among other things by an incident in July 2009 in which two young bloggers, Emin Milli and Adnan Hajizade, were attacked in a restaurant, went to the police to report the incident and were then arrested themselves.
Mr Provera, I believe that it is necessary for Parliament, which is in partnership with the Parliament of Azerbaijan, to express itself clearly.
It is a very pessimistic conclusion, but I close with this thought: in spite of everything, we should not cease in our efforts, and should be consistent in exerting pressure.
The second problem is a recent decision by Azerbaijani authorities to cancel the FM radio licences of several international radio stations like Radio Free Europe, Voice of America, BBC World Service and others, depriving listeners in this country of valuable and independent sources of information.
We should applaud steps in the right direction taken by President Aliyev, for example, to free 119 prisoners, including five journalists, at the end of 2007.
Azerbaijan ratified the European Convention on Human Rights and has undertaken to observe the provisions of Article 10 of this convention, which is devoted to freedom of expression and information.
However, recently in Azerbaijan, the right to freedom of expression and freedom of association has increasingly come under threat and media activities are restricted.
I think that we look upon Azerbaijan with a great deal of goodwill, and also on the authorities there.
In my opinion, we should address all issues that shake the democratic world. (DE) Mr President, following the first European elections in 1979, I had the honour of working with Otto von Habsburg, who is now seriously ill, to establish the human rights tradition of the European Parliament, including these topical and urgent debates on a Thursday afternoon.
I was elected to the European Parliament in 1994 and I had the honour of working with Mr Schulz and others to further develop this human rights tradition, which we are rightly proud of.
I remember well that when we expressed our support for Andrei Sakharov, Vytautas Landsbergis and other campaigners for civil rights, people said at the time: Please do not get involved.
I also think that the Azerbaijani Government must take this action urgently because it must respect the commitments arising from both the European Neighbourhood Policy and the Eastern Partnership.
A partnership and cooperation agreement has been in place for 10 years.
In our 2008 report, we stated that 'Azerbaijan has made good progress in economic development, but continues to show a poor record of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law'.
The European Union has, in its various contacts, taken up these issues at all levels with the authorities and will continue to do so.
The vote will take place at the end of the debate.
