in writing. (SV) The European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has again prepared a report opposed to reform of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. - (FR) Reform of the system for intervention in support of maize is a matter of necessity.
We take the view that, given that all the criteria and conditions for the nomination of an MEP by a Member State have been met - at national and European Parliament level - the Member State in question should be allowed to proceed with the nomination, in compliance with the internal legal framework. (DE) Mr President, I just wanted to make known that I abstained from the vote on CITES: not because I did not agree with many things contained in the resolution but because, as so often happens, this House is dictating to developing countries behaviour that seems right to us, but that those countries may not consider so appropriate.
There are currently 5 000 animals and 28 000 plants protected by CITES including species found on Portuguese territory.
What are needed are strategies that promote greater investment in education and training at all levels and that actually make it easier for SMEs to access existing programmes and actions. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 163(1) of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. (PL) The report basically highlights the need for a broad innovation strategy in Europe, which would improve the competitiveness of its economy.
I voted for the Gierek report but against all amendments which could have led to reviving discussions on the Computer Implemented Inventions Directive.
I am voting in favour of Professor Adam Gierek's report on 'Putting knowledge into practice: A broad-based innovation strategy for Europe'.
The world leaders in terms of innovation are the USA, Japan and the countries of the European Union, and the competition between these economies provides a stimulus for further innovation.
In the report, the rapporteur very aptly points to the main reasons for this situation in the EU and, above all, highlights the need to develop an effective innovation strategy for Europe. (CS) Today's recommendation from the European Parliament to the Council concerning the development of a strategic concept for tackling organised crime is an extremely important and welcome piece of news for Europe's citizens.
The Council must provide Europol and Eurojust with greater independence and authority.
This is a new strategic task, and it is a responsibility that we have towards the 500 million citizens of the EU.
For all these reasons, I have given the rapporteur my backing and have, in the final vote, cast my vote in favour of this report.
The EU has always played an important role in the fight against organised crime and it is now necessary to provide the Union with a more powerful and ambitious instrument to work more closely with Member States to improve cooperation in order to combat organised crime more effectively.
That being said, the recommendation will only prove useful, and be at its most effective, if in addition to passing laws, steps are taken aimed at actually enhancing mutual trust between the institutions responsible for fighting crime in the various Member States.
in writing. - (FR) The European Union needs to equip itself with the instruments that will enable it to fight more effectively against organised crime, which knows no frontiers and is, lamentably, on the increase.
in writing. - (EL) The report uses the existing problem of organised crime as a pretext to promote a harsher policy to restrict fundamental individual rights and strengthen the police state and the uncontrolled action of the repressive mechanisms of the ΕU.
There is no doubt that many of the proposals are commendable in themselves, but neither the EU nor the European Parliament should have competence in these issues.
With regards to combating terrorism, we have supported the more constructive and forward-looking language in amendments 55 and 56, which acknowledge that there has been progress in decreasing the levels of infiltration by militant groups, but that further action needs to be taken in parallel with meaningful demilitarisation.
In voting for amendments 18 and 56, we reaffirm the right to self-determination for the Kashmiri people, which can be expressed through a plebiscite when the conditions are right.
in writing. (SV) I support the resolution because we believe that Russian interference in what happened in Estonia is very serious and is unacceptable.
Paragraph 7 comments on the Internet attacks carried out.
in writing. (PL) The riots in Tallinn and the attack on the Estonian embassy in Moscow have made Member States aware of the current government's policy towards individual Member States.
