I should also like to thank the secretariat of the Committee on Legal Affairs and in particular Giorgio, who has been a very strong advocate and adviser with regard to all these areas, and, finally, Commissioner McCreevy and all his staff.
Firstly, the extension of the term of protection from the present 50 years to a further extension of term.
We are now proposing, as part of a compromise, 70 years.
As well as that, other Member States in the Council of Ministers have purposely tried to block and hinder progress in this process by putting in spurious claims and spurious amendments without actually looking at the detail or the content or even engaging properly with Parliament to see how Parliament could be flexible with regard to what needs to happen.
But the second point with regard to what this directive is doing - and possibly the most important of all - is that for the first time it recognises the contribution of session musicians by establishing a fund to allow them to ensure that they have a return and remuneration for their work - which has been exploited by people over a long period of time - for which they may only get a one-off payment if they are lucky.
In our audience tonight we have some musicians, some producers and, indeed, some interested parties.
For the first time ever in European copyright laws there will be a scheme whereby artists participate in the labels' sales revenue: 20% of gross turnover is set aside for session artists.
Contrary to a widely-held belief, the likes of Sir Cliff Richard will not get a single penny out of the session players' fund, and record labels such as EMI or Universal, which contribute to the session players' fund, will have to make a profit on only 80% of gross turnover.
The Commission agrees that the issue of managing online rights for the redistribution of TV and radio programmes merits close attention.
This amendment has therefore extended this principle to performers, which is already a considerable step forward.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Education. - Mr President, I should also like to congratulate the rapporteur and, for the first time in my 10 years in this place, to congratulate the Commission on both its proposal and on the compromises it came forward with later.
I would like to single out some key amendments: Amendment 58, which is a permanent 'use it or lose it' clause; Amendments 59 to 61 on a permanent claim for session players, under which labels have to set aside 20% of all sales revenue; Amendment 62 on a clean slate for featured artists; Amendment 71 on the possibility for featured artists to renegotiate better contracts; and, finally, Amendment 75 on an assessment of the impact on audiovisual performers.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, despite an enterprising charm offensive from the Commissioner and his services, I still cannot support this proposal to extend the copyright term.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has accomplished.
Copyright protection currently lasts for a maximum of 50 years, and in my opinion this period is not sufficient to give fair remuneration to artists for their creative work and performance.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, we have a problem with copyright and we have a problem with remuneration for artists.
I am baffled at the notion of extending the term of copyright, whether it is to 70 years or 95 years, and I am baffled by it not just because it is dubious and almost out of step with the digital age but also because, quite clearly, a move like that will primarily benefit industrial interests and not struggling artists.
The compromise that is now being talked about is 70 years, and this is heading in the right direction.
At this point in time, when copyright is the subject of intensive debate, I therefore believe that we would be making a mistake if we approved the Commission's proposal for an extension to the term of protection for musical compositions from 50 to 95 years.
In order to safeguard the profitability of capital, it is turning everything into a commodity, from water through to art, culture and the creations of man. (SV) Mr President, the proposal to extend the copyright term to 95 years is an appalling example of how the large record companies have succeeded in lobbying for a proposal that goes entirely their way.
Let this not be the case in Europe.
Intellectual property is protected for 70 years after the author's death, thereby generating a certain amount of revenue for their family.
That is why the compromise setting a period of 70 years would be a good idea.
It will not even encourage poor musicians, as it is not their records that sell more than 50 years after they were made.
But one thing that I have learned is that anything touching on the area of intellectual property is fraught with all types of pitfalls.
There have been a number of issues raised in this whole area of intellectual property in Parliament and the Council of Ministers, both in my time as Commissioner and in my time previously as an Irish government minister, and some of these issues have been around for 20/30 years.
So I have learned that any aspect of this topic gets a tremendous amount of coverage, generates a lot of debate and polarises a lot of Members of Parliament, Member States and different stakeholders.
If there is disagreement here in the House and in Member States, I can equally say there were different views in my DG on this issue when I first came to it as to how we should proceed, and many of the differing viewpoints put forward here were reflected there as well.
I think it is significant to note that, as Mr Heaton-Harris said, 38 000 session musicians support this particular proposal.
But the writer of the song is entitled to life plus 70 years.
Some people had one hit song when they were 21 or 22 and were then never heard of again, and they did not make an awful lot of money out of it.
As Mr Crowley and others mentioned, this was a genuine attempt to address some of these issues - and some very conflicting issues.
Ms Gill, who is very supportive of the proposal and I thank her very much for her support, mentioned the 'use it or lose it' clause, which kicks in after a year, but, in the implementation in Member States, Member States can allow it to kick in after three months or six months if they so wish.
Current legislation, including Directive 2006/116/EC of 12 December 2006, does not fill a legal loophole which exists because of the development of new technology.
Adoption of the Crowley report by the European Parliament will allow a certain multicultural protection, which will foster competitiveness in the world music industry.
Parliament has also asked the Commission to make an assessment of the need for a similar extension of the term of protection of copyright to performers and producers in the audiovisual sector.
