Preparation of the European Council following the Irish referendum (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the preparation of the European Council following the Irish referendum.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) The second meeting of the European Council under the Slovenian Presidency will begin tomorrow.
The first debate will most certainly be devoted to examining the situation following the referendum on the Lisbon Treaty held last Thursday in Ireland.
The Presidency is convinced that a solution could be found in cooperation with Ireland, and that the Union will not face the recurrence of the situation from 2005.
It is a fact that rising commodity prices contributed to the escalation of inflation of food prices, and to the overall inflation within the EU.
We also need to pay attention to bio-fuel policies and find a way of ensuring their sustainability, both within the EU and also in other countries.
In particular, I would like to underline the completion of a series of Stabilisation and Association Agreements, and the launch of dialogue on visa liberalisation with all countries of the region, as well as the submission of roadmaps.
The Presidency highly values the support of the European Parliament in this respect.
The third set of issues to be discussed by the European Council will be about economic, social and environmental matters.
The Slovenian Presidency has achieved all the set objectives relating to the package in question.
In the margins of the meeting, Heads of State and Government will discuss the Commission's proposal for the accession of the Slovak Republic as the sixteenth Member State to the Economic and Monetary Union on 1 January 2009.
In short, the views and debates in this Parliament have made a major contribution to formulating the agenda of the European Council.
The President asked them to remove the banners and posters.) The issues are the surge in oil and food prices, climate change and energy security, migration and asylum to name but a few.
This 'no' vote was a disappointment to all those in favour of a stronger, more efficient and accountable European Union.
The Lisbon Treaty remains essential to help us respond to the challenges that Europe faces today; to have a more democratic Union, increasing the powers of this Parliament and recognising the role of national parliaments in European politics; to enhance Europe's capacity to act in areas like migration, energy, climate change, internal security; to increase Europe's coherence and effectiveness on the global stage.
We must show the same respect for all national ratifications, (Applause) whether they have chosen to take the route of referendum or of parliamentary ratification.
There have been 19 democratic decisions in the process so far: 18 in favour of the Lisbon Treaty; one against.
The Irish Government has set out clearly its respect for the right of other countries to continue their ratification processes.
All the countries in Europe are equal; all the countries have the right to express their opinion. (Applause) While it is clear that the Lisbon Treaty cannot enter into force before unanimity about its ratification, it is also clear that an Irish vote decides on the Irish position but cannot determine the position of other countries.
I expect the Member States that did not ratify the Lisbon Treaty to continue their own ratification processes. (Applause) The European Council gives us all an opportunity to listen very carefully to what Prime Minister Cowen will say.
Let me be clear: Ireland has a responsibility to contribute to finding a solution.
Twenty-seven Member States signed the Treaty; we must make every effort to make sure that 27 Member States find a way forward.
We need to take the time to find a real consensus and see what is possible for Ireland.
The European Commission is ready to make its contribution - and I am sure this Parliament is too - but there is no way around the fact that governments have a particular responsibility here: in signing the Treaty, in making sure it is ratified, in promoting the European project in their national public opinions.
That is why I very much welcome Prime Minister Janez Janša and the Slovenian presidency's decision to ring-fence the debate on Lisbon to the dinner on Thursday night and to devote the rest of the European Council to furthering our policy agenda.
We need to take a dynamic and imaginative look at the tools at our disposal - to look at what will have a real impact in the short, medium and long term.
To alleviate problems on food inside the European Union we will come forward with proposals to extend our scheme to distribute food to the most deprived before seeking a two-thirds increase in the budget for this specific area.
Secondly, we must target our alleviation efforts on the worst-hit segments of the fleet.
Thirdly, we must find structural solutions to overcapacity in the fishing industry.
However, for a structural problem we need a structural answer, a structural response.
I think it is an important task of the European Council to show that the 'no' vote on the Lisbon Treaty is not an excuse to avoid action.
Those challenges are there and we need to tackle them in a more efficient manner.
Therefore, let us not now put the blame on the European Union.
The truth is that, today, to take political decisions at European, national or regional level is a very tough matter.
The best way to show that we are committed to our project - and in that regard I would also like to welcome the intentions of the French presidency - is to work concretely on the most important areas where the European Union can deliver and help our Member States deliver on those problems that are really the first concern of our citizens.
My Group respects that decision just as it also respects that of the 18 Member States that have to date expressed their support for the Treaty and ratified it.
The European Union is founded on freedom of expression and democracy.
Therefore, because we are democrats, we want all of the Member States to express their opinion on the ratification of the Treaty.
We hope that this week the European Council will carry out a calm, responsible and constructive analysis of the situation ensuing from this vote.
The PPE members of my Group hope that the European Council will ask the Member States that have not yet done so to continue with their ratification procedures as is only fit and proper.
It is a manifestation of the question many citizens are asking about the very purpose of European integration.
The Irish 'no' vote is a plea for a better definition of Europe's goals and a better explanation of the reasons for pursuing further integration.
The European Parliament, which adopts texts that are often difficult to read, must play a full role in this exercise.
By voting 'no', however, did the Irish mean that when it comes to climate and energy, the new food order, personal safety, immigration or foreign policy our countries are self-sufficient and can act on an equal footing with the United States, China, India or Brazil?
The PPE members of my Group firmly believe that the Lisbon Treaty, which was the subject of long negotiations and which was signed by the 27 Member States, is a major step forward in comparison to the Nice Treaty.
Mr President-in-Office, my request is that tomorrow in the Council you take account of the real problems, of the welfare of our fellow European citizens, and deal head-on with all of the increases that are worrying our citizens.
The process of European integration is on the line.
The Irish have had their referendum and we must respect the results, but there was an element which perturbed me greatly.
With the exception of Sinn Féin - and I will not waste words on them here - all the Irish parties, the PPE-DE, the Liberals and our own party were calling for a 'yes', and the Irish people voted 'no'.
This is the wake-up call, and everyone, including us here in this Chamber, is affected by the fact that there is a crisis of confidence, a crisis of mistrust, vis-à-vis the national institutions, and indeed the supranational institutions.
Let me say this very clearly: we must stand together in response to this crisis of confidence, and we must take it seriously.
Let me also address a comment to Mr Daul: there are 21 heads of government across the European Union who belong to your political family or the Liberals, and an equally large number of Members of the Commission.
I invite you to do so, for example in relation to my colleague Paul Nyrup Rasmussen's report on control of the international financial markets.
We must recognise that there was once a time when the pro-European movement had a heart and soul.
Now, it is the anti-Europe movement which has the heart and soul, and you can see that they are extremely active.
Let us finally join forces again for one purpose: to remind ourselves that there has never been a more successful project to safeguard peace in Europe and the world than the transnational, intercultural, inter-faith movement which is based on a balance of social interests and is called the European Union.
Certainly there is a role for Parliament and Commission in explaining the European Union - but also for every national government, every single day, not just when ratification of the latest treaty is due.
And there is a job here, too, not just for political parties at European level, but for political parties in every Member State.
This is the backdrop against which our response to Ireland must be measured.
But beyond this forest of metal and glass, this is too little understood.
Europe means too much to too many to allow this crisis to stop it in its tracks. (Applause) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have always said that what the European Union needs is a short constitution, with a charter of binding rights, democratic and transparent decision-making procedures, limited but genuine powers and the requisite economic resources.
It is possible, and perhaps also desirable, that the countries having yet to ratify will do so.
It may be that the Irish Government will come up with a brilliant proposal.
Now more than ever we need to state loud and clear that the Europe of governments - opaque and obscure - is the Europe that has failed: the one that rejected the constitution and is continuing to pursue misguided, conservative, narrow-mindedly nationalist and egotistical policies; the one that put paid to the spirit of the 2003 European Convention, ending up instead with an agreement on a positive but minimalistic, soulless text.
The 'no' vote in Ireland represents a sea-change with regard to the opinion of one set of voters within the European Union towards the European Union project.
What we have requested is that we be given time to look at and analyse those results, to find ways to move forward and what can be done.
Because this - even people on the 'no' side claim - was not a vote against Europe, despite the fact that some on the 'no' side have voted 'no' on every single European referendum since Ireland first acceded in 1972.
But they claim that this is not a vote against Europe.
But their big slogan during the campaign was 'vote "no” for a stronger Europe'.
These are the challenges that we must respond to at a European level; these are the difficulties that we must tackle.
However, despite what some of the protesters within this Chamber may think, this is a time for respect: not just respect for the Irish voters, who gave their democratic opinion with regard to this Treaty, but respect for the other countries and their individual rights on how they operate and how they ratify a treaty.
I say to those who wear T-shirts inside this House that not only do they disrespect this House and the Members of this House, but they in no way stand for or represent the Irish people or the Irish nation. (Applause) I want to make it clear that those same flag-wavers over here on my left, those same people who claim to defend the rights of Irish people were the same people who appeared on Irish television celebrating a 'no' vote in Ireland in a pub in Brussels.
The Irish 'no' vote was particularly strong among the working classes and I would remind you that turnout was much higher than in the past; according to my Group, this reveals that the crisis surrounding the legitimacy of the current European model is growing ever deeper.
This crisis was already at the heart of the French and Dutch 'no' votes; it is expressed differently elsewhere but it is always an underlying element.
Running away from these debates means exacerbating the crisis in Europe; conducting them in complete transparency would be a first step on the road to finding a solution.
The Irish are not just 10% of the EU, they are 100% of those allowed to vote and they all know, we all know, that others would have voted 'no' given the chance. (Further loud protests) Lisbon was incomprehensible and the Irish knew why.
Others would have voted 'no' given the chance.
We believe, with just a few exceptions that merely add colour to the debate, that it would be wise for all the Member States to complete their ratification processes.
I believe that this is the consensus that is being consolidated, and I hope that it will be consolidated by the debate in the European Council tomorrow and beyond.
In any event, it is the position that the Commission is going to present to the European Council.
The best way of consolidating the European Union's democratic legitimacy is to provide results and to demonstrate that we are working for our citizens; indeed, the world cannot wait for Europe to take its institutional decisions.
If we act in a spirit of cooperation with our institutions, if we concentrate on the results the citizens expect from us, if we find the best atmosphere for this dialogue, I believe that it will be possible to resolve this problem.
The declared solution was to prepare a Treaty that would make the EU more simple, more transparent, more close to the people.
Our response cannot be to carry on as if nothing has happened.
It is called democracy.
The ratification process should stop.
It is the people who have lost confidence with the politicians.
Therefore, I endorse the remarks made by the President of the Commission: we have a consensus here in Parliament on the process, respecting the Irish but respecting also all the other Member States.
I would like to see the Commission coming up with a new economic revitalisation plan - not a theoretical one, but a coordinated investment action.
I really feel that the Commission President should say to us today: yes, I agree, we have a financial crisis and, yes, I agree, we need to have universal regulation, better than the one we have, so that our answer can be new jobs and a better climate, not more money and not more focus on how to create money from nothing, instead of production and jobs.
I represent a sovereign state but you cannot uphold the sovereignty of your own Member State - in my case, Ireland - unless you uphold the sovereignty of all Member States.
In this context, if other Member States decide to exercise their sovereignty and ratify the Lisbon Treaty, or otherwise, no real democrat, no flag-flying democrat who today claims to be Irish, can legitimately object.
All 27 Member States must agree - that is core.
As politicians, our job is to rise to that challenge, to listen to our citizens, to find solutions and to get on with the business of building a better Europe.
Let us be optimistic and look for a better deal for all citizens.
European citizens want a Union that works.
Let us not disappoint them. (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, the message I am getting from the governments is that this is an Irish problem.
When I talk to citizens, the message I get from them is that this is a European problem, and a conflict with Europe.
When I listen to the citizens, they tell us that it is the Treaty and the process which are incomprehensible.
The governments tell us that they have to tackle the real agenda.
That has nothing to do with Ireland.
The Treaty should not be used as a smokescreen for our own failings.
The decision taken by the people of Ireland must not be used to conceal our own failings. (Applause) (GA) Mr President, Irish people have spoken.
The vote that Irish people cast against the Treaty of Lisbon last Thursday was not a vote against the EU.
The Treaty of Lisbon is over.
We now have the opportunity to re-open the debate on the future of Europe.
We need to listen very carefully and calmly to what Irish people have said and to the problems that they have indicated in terms of neutrality and the whole question of EU militarisation, in terms of democracy and the voice of Ireland and other small nations in Europe, in terms of workers' rights and public services and social Europe.
The first was a general feeling that decision-making was being further removed from the citizens in favour of a distant bureaucracy.
One: do you truly believe that this Treaty would survive referendums in the other 26 countries?
Now they are saying that little Ireland does not have the right to oppose a European Treaty, which may soon be ratified by 26 of the 27 Member States.
This involves not only Ireland and the entire current European Union, but also the future of Europe, which is not yet entirely united.
In this context I congratulate the Slovenian Presidency on all its successes in the approximation of the countries of the Western Balkans, and especially for the stabilisation and association agreements with Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
I hope that the victory of pro-European forces in Macedonia will help the Council towards a decision on the commencement of negotiations with that country, which is already a candidate and has spent a long time in the waiting room.
I will gladly listen to the messages sent by the people of Ireland, but when Mrs Sinnott tells us, as she did yesterday, that a majority of voters in one town voted against the Treaty of Lisbon because a waste incineration plant is being built there and we have a European law which calls for the incineration of waste, then I really do wonder what this has to do with the Treaty of Lisbon.
It will do much to restore the moral authority and the political credibility of the UK and it should assist the Irish to find a new consensus based on less libertas and more veritas.
It confirms my opinion that the plebiscite is a form of democracy, possibly suited for revolutionary circumstances, but completely unsuited for informed and deliberative decisions on complex treaty revision.
Voters, not just in Ireland but in France and the Netherlands too, have said 'no' to the Treaty text or its twin brother.
It is a serious business when a parliament denies the possibility and the importance of allowing people to express themselves with total freedom, as the Irish people have done.
It has been killed off by this unbelievable procedure of having a treaty that affects the future of our peoples approved by means of a parliamentary vote, excluding the people and citizens.
It is now time to state the true significance of this vote: it says 'enough is enough' to the Brussels Eurocrats who want to build a superstate far removed from the interest and soul of our citizens.
According to him, when such small countries block the common reform process, we have to ask whether they want to stay in the Union or not.
They will bury it because it contains the Charter and so, for the first time in 60 years, opens the door in our country to the restitution of the Sudetenland property, and to the revision of the just outcome of the Second World War rather than the so-called Beneš Decrees.
They will also bury it because it deprives small Member States of their right of veto and increases the German voting power from 9 votes to 18 votes instead.
I congratulate the Irish and all of us. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, admitting that the Lisbon Treaty is dead and that it was a blind alley is the only democratic and honest solution.
But while I am deeply disappointed with the result, of one thing I am sure: we must accept it as the democratic will of the people and respect it.
Perhaps she could tell this House where in the Lisbon Treaty euthanasia is provided for, where in the Lisbon Treaty abortion, prostitution, corporate tax decision, risks to the Irish neutrality lie.
When the dust settles, I hope colleagues will agree with me that a two-speed Europe is not the answer but the beginning of the end of our Union, the most successful democratic peace project of our time.
We failed to distinguish fact from fiction in the minds of a sufficient number of our electorate, despite the valiant efforts of our Director of Elections, Gay Mitchell, and my colleagues.
Some people - and we have heard that from some parts of this House - only want to listen to one side, to the answer that they like, which is the answer 'no'.
I want to listen to both sides and then find a solution acceptable to all 27 countries.
As far as I am concerned, there are two questions that we must tackle.
Those are the questions that we need to answer and I think that now more than ever it is at last time for Europe to get back to politics. (DA) Mr President, a prominent, popular Danish businessman wrote the following in yesterday's Berlingske Tidende newspaper: 'Europeans fully support international political cooperation and global responsibility.
Prince Pöttering, Emperor Barroso and the rulers of their vassal states have decided that Europe's citizens do not matter.
The Union has no popular mandate. (DA) Mr President, last Friday, the Irish voted 'no' to the Treaty of Lisbon, a poor copy of the Constitution to which France and the Netherlands also voted 'no'.
The gulf is not between the Irish people and Europe; it is between the people and the Heads of State or Government of Europe.
The gulf is not between certain European countries and the rest of Europe.
It is even more shortsighted, however, to demand Ireland's exclusion or attempt to push the Treaty through.
Brussels' understanding of what constitutes democracy - whereby citizens are simply expected to give their blessing to EU decisions or vote for the parties that the EU approves of - really is reminiscent of the Soviet Union.
Instead of taking umbrage, the EU should accept the Irish 'no' vote for what it is: a chance for a new direction, towards policies which are geared to the people and the citizens of Europe. (DE) Mr President, as Martin Schulz has kindly pointed out, there are indeed many heads of government from the PPE-DE, and that reflects the fact that the PPE-DE is closer to citizens and therefore wins more elections.
Nonetheless, the fact of the matter is that there are a number of indications that we need to strike a balance between rational economic policy and social policy.
That is the difference: in our Europe, all the nations are equal, and that is what you are trying to destroy, Mr Farage, with your British imperialist notions!
Twenty-six Member States can now ratify the Treaty, and every one has undertaken to do so.
These 26 Member States can ratify the Treaty through a parliamentary process, and if that process is brought to a successful conclusion, the Irish people can then reconsider.
Whether that happens or not depends on the discussions that will begin tomorrow between the Irish Government and the other 26 heads of state.
I propose a new deadline for ratification of Lisbon.
Europe has very little to lose if it loses Ireland, but Ireland has everything to lose if it loses Europe.
The global challenges we all face in this constantly changing and inter-connected world are clear: climate change, demographic change, migration and energy crisis, hunger and poverty killing millions, human insecurity, international crime, topped by an identity crisis in virtually every one of our Member States.
That will reinforce our unity and our solidarity and produce a positive solution to this crisis. (Applause) Mr President, allow yourself to think: if the Irish had voted 'yes', does anyone here believe that our green T-shirts would have had the text 'Respect the Irish vote'?
When Sweden entered the European Union, there were 12 Member States.
So let us proceed in the same way in which we have achieved those results, with persistence, vision, democracy and respect for each Member State.
We already had a similar discussion when voters in France and the Netherlands rejected the Constitutional Treaty and at that time the Commission and Council assured us that the ratification process would carry on, but then both of them, along with our Parliament, yielded to the temptation to halt that ratification process.
Secondly, something needs to be crystal clear to us: there exists a major gulf in the perception of the importance of the European Union between the political elite at home, in national circles, in the European Union and among the majority of our citizens.
Here we must ask ourselves whether Parliament, the Council and the European Commission can do anything more to bridge this communication gulf and once again inspire our people with the European idea.
I believe that in welcoming the plans of the Slovenian Presidency for tomorrow's Council I would propose that it also discusses this - a new communication strategy for dialogue between citizens and the European Union - not just with a view to concluding the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, but also in other respects. (Applause) Mr President, there has been talk here today of respect and there is no doubt that we have to respect the result of the referendum held in Ireland, in which some people voted 'yes' and some people voted 'no'.
I think we all agree that we must respect the remaining countries and, therefore, continue with ratification.
However, I want to talk about respect for democracy and I want to state clearly that approval by the people has the same value as parliamentary approval; exactly the same value.
We have to explain to the people that - like the Irish horse that won the Epsom Derby a few days ago, called New Approach - the Lisbon Treaty is also a 'new approach', which Europe needs to offer added value to its people.
I would like them to explain it to me. (FR) Mr President, it is now 18 June and as a Frenchman I am consumed with the call from London: resist, continue, persevere and never give up.
I think that it is experiencing a terrible identity crisis.
To do so we need great leadership and from that point of view we are somewhat on our own. (Applause) (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that in actual fact - as the President-in-Office and President Barroso have both said - tomorrow's European Council meeting has a number of items on its agenda, and not just the result of the referendum in Ireland.
Obviously, however, this issue has taken up practically all of this morning's debate.
Nevertheless, Mr President of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, nobody is forcing anybody to remain in Europe.
In my opinion we must respect the outcome of the Irish referendum.
We must however equally respect the wishes of the other 26 Member States; 18 at present but soon to be 26.
I am winding up, Mr President.
To return to the main point of the debate: clearly the Lisbon Treaty cannot come into force on 1 January as we hoped.
We have to wait for the Irish Government to tell us how they think we should proceed.
But meanwhile other states should exercise their sovereign right to ratify this Treaty.
My own Member State will finish its ratification today in accordance with its long-standing and widely respected parliamentary tradition.
I have one question though for the Slovenian presidency: could you tell me what are the implications of the Irish vote for Croatia's accession to the European Union? (PL) Mr President, we are discussing preparations for the European Council.
I do of course consider that all the Members who have taken the floor are right from the point of view of some larger or smaller group of Europeans.
We should bear in mind, however, that if this debate had taken place on Wednesday of last week, it would have been quite different.
They are much more concerned about the price of petrol at filling stations and about other the problems that are arising every day.
We must therefore try to separate these issues and discuss not only the Lisbon Treaty but also issues that are currently of interest to our citizens.
We need to explain why the institutional solutions we propose are good for the European Union.
The proposed arrangements will result in greater solidarity and concern for each other, together with greater respect for what we stand for in each one of our countries. (SV) I entirely agree that every Member State has the right to have a say.
The Council and the Commission must get to grips with these issues.
If we do not get this balance right, our people will turn their backs on the EU.
With all due respect for the Irish vote, the EU of 27 cannot be taken political hostage by the limited number of opponents to the Lisbon Treaty.
Yes, Europe can stop, but the world around us will not stop because of us, and the most dramatic casualty of this vote will be Europe's solidarity: our common foreign and security policy and energy solidarity.
This referendum is a wake-up call for a credible commitment to our principal values.
Instead of living from one national election to the next, instead of indulging in consumer democracy geared to getting more and more money from Europe, we need leaders who can make the appeal to our citizens: 'First of all, what can you do for Europe?' And believe me, if we have such leaders, we will find citizens who will support us. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, six months ago 27 European heads of state or government committed themselves to ratifying the Reform Treaty by attaching their signatures to the document.
I would especially like to call on prime ministers who belong to the Group of the European People's Party, to remind the Czech Prime Minister of his duty and the responsibility facing a country that is due to assume the presidency.
As the Czech Republic will take over the EU presidency on 1 January 2009, the final chapter of the ratification process, the solution to the entire Lisbon Treaty problem, will lie precisely on that country's shoulders.
I say again that I would like the European People's Party to remind the Czech Prime Minister of this duty. (RO) The European Council we are preparing today is decisive for the future of Europe.
One of the most prosperous European countries and a representative of economic success by implementing the European integration procedures has said "no” to the Lisbon Treaty.
At the same time, 18 European countries have adopted this document, most of them being the same 18 that also said "yes” to the European Constitutional Treaty.
I believe in this vision and, at the same time, I know that great efforts are required for its achievement.
Making the European Union the scapegoat for every problem instead of facing up to their responsibility, and then asking citizens, two weeks before a referendum, to give their endorsement is dishonest, irresponsible and disingenuous.
Of course democracy compels us to take the Irish result into account, which we do.
But, equally, democracy cannot be exercised at the expense of the rights of the others, namely those who have already ratified the Lisbon Treaty, and, most important, it cannot be abused to blackmail the majority by a minority.
I am afraid that the Irish 'no' will encourage rather than discourage existing tendencies to renationalise some common policies by prolonging the juridical vacuum the EU finds itself in since the rejection of the constitutional treaty.
I would conclude by saying that, as an MEP from a former Communist country which made great efforts to be admitted to the Union, I would hate to see communism living longer than the European Union. (PL) Mr President, it would appear that all agreements reached in Lisbon are doomed.
The Lisbon Strategy and the Lisbon Treaty have both ended in a fiasco.
The forthcoming summit will have to determine whether there is any hope of reviving the Treaty.
The European Parliament should send out a clear signal that it accepts the rules of democracy even though some Members may be unhappy with the outcome.
We hope that the European Council will consider a new and more democratic formula for the European Union. (FR) Mr President, we all know that democracy is not a long calm river, but we also know that it is democracy that we have chosen to organise our society.
Therefore, as far as I am concerned, the Irish 'no' is no different to the French 'no' or the Dutch 'no' but, as in 2005, we were unable to explain why Europe is good for our citizens.
Yes, the Irish have spoken and they have said 'no'.
For the countries that signed the document, this is an international legal duty, pursuant to the Vienna Convention on the law of treaties.
The treaty provides an opportunity for essential reforms to the Union.
Such a policy is very important for the Union and also for my country, Poland.
I represent Silesia, which has a population of five million.
I respect the result of the referendum in Ireland, but at the same time I find it hard to accept that the votes of 109 964 Irish people, which represent the difference between the 'no' and the 'yes' votes, should be able to determine the future of my country, my region and essentially the future of the European Union.
I do not think that this should be allowed to happen. (DE) Mr President, I would like to express my thanks to the people of Ireland and also to the CAEUC, which campaigned against the Treaty of Lisbon in Ireland.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) The word heard - and read - most frequently in this Chamber today has been 'respect'.
Firstly: ratification of a new treaty on European Union falls within the exclusive competence of the Member States.
The Council has absolutely no role in these processes, and the Presidency even less.
Next fact: each Member State carries out this process in accordance with its own rules, which that State formulates in its own independent and sovereign way.
This brings us perhaps to the essential point.
Certain Member States have carried out parliamentary ratification or will do so, and one is bound by a referendum.
I firmly reject the assertions of those who believe that parliamentary ratification is imperfect or less democratic than a referendum.
Eighteen Member States have already ratified the Lisbon Treaty, the others have not yet made a pronouncement, and the view of the Presidency is that ratifications must continue.
Those who claim that the Lisbon Treaty is dead, those who are demanding an immediate halt to the ratification process, are denying the right of Member States to speak for themselves, the same right that they are so vehemently defending in the case of Ireland. (Applause) Fourth fact: we have already been in this situation and we found a solution.
And the European Council meeting tomorrow marks the start of our search for the way out.
And the final fact: the item on the agenda for today's morning sitting was not the result of the Irish referendum, but preparations for the European Council.
We will address the problem of food and oil prices, we will address economic, social and environmental topics, we will address international development challenges and we will address the issue of the Western Balkans.
It has taken a long time and a lot of energy to discuss the underlying issues and the problems behind the need for a new Treaty to design a new machinery for a European Union that has changed so dramatically in a short period of time.
Let me just mention three reasons why we think a new treaty is needed.
A second reason is, of course, that we would like to be able to speak with one single strong voice in the world, to be stronger on the international scene, and to do that on the basis of our values.
This is one of the reasons behind the discussion on a new treaty.
The third reason is, of course, to make the European Union more democratic.
That is the way forward - to understand their arguments, to work with the other Member States and also to get their respect for the problems that we can, hopefully, solve together.
As we did after the 'no' vote in the French and Dutch referendums, we have already carried out a Eurobarometer survey, which I think will also help better to understand the challenges of any referendum.
After the voters have been presented with such a complex wide text as a new international treaty, of course there is room for different interpretations of the results.
I think that everybody can see that we also have to analyse what we can improve in terms of communication and information to citizens.
I have always said that communication is a tool for democracy.
This must be based on a right for citizens to know what goes on at European level, what is decided and how citizens can have a say.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I am trying to summarise that we need to create a citizen's ownership of EU policies, to make them understandable and relevant, and to make the EU institutions accountable and reliable to those they serve.
We need to have a broad and permanent debate on the future of the European Union between the democratic institutions in the EU and the citizens, both at national and EU level, and we need to empower citizens by giving them access to information so that they can have an informed debate on the European Union.
We have already proposed creating a framework for that, as Jo Leinen has already pointed to - and thank you for doing so.
I thank Parliament for its support in trying to be more effective in communicating with citizens, because then we have to be serious about it and give it the resources and the framework we need to work in partnership with Member States as well and, of course, to make our texts and our decisions as readable as possible.
We have to continue to draw conclusions and learn the lessons also from the Irish example, but to respect the 'no' vote.
I hope that this debate will also serve as an input to the leaders' meeting tomorrow and on Friday.
I wish to inform the House that Mr Hans-Peter Martin has asked to make a personal statement under Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure.
The challenge is now whether some elite have the honestly and integrity to admit that the Treaty is dead.
Rather than face reality, I fear that we will again face a Brussels conspiracy to circumvent the people.
in writing. - In these times of crisis and institutional uncertainty I feel I must praise the Treaty of Lisbon.
People who say they do not understand it in fact show they have no confidence in their leaders.
So we need more Europe, not less.
We need to solve this complicated puzzle on the one hand by listening to the voice of the Irish citizens, and on the other by giving due consideration to the position of all the other Member States that want to move ahead along the common European road.
For this, we need all 27 Member States.
I believe that the 27 Member States must find a common solution and make a common decision regarding the next step.
The vote of the Irish citizens for the rejection of the Lisbon Treaty must be respected.
At the same time, we need to take into consideration the larger interests of all the European Union citizens in making the European structure more efficient, as well as in continuing the process of the Union enlargement.
The Irish citizens will have to decide by a new referendum whether they leave the European Union or they stay in the EU based on the Lisbon Treaty.
Just like Ireland and the Irish political representatives have the right to fight for the aspirations of their citizens, Romania is entitled to fight for the accession of the Republic of Moldova to the European Union.
in writing. - (PT) Following the victorious NO vote in the Irish referendum on the Lisbon Treaty, the leaders of the European Union should have recognised what was obvious: that the Lisbon Treaty has failed.
It should also be noted that this rejection follows on from two other identical results in France and the Netherlands on the so-called European Constitution, which was the forerunner of the Lisbon Treaty.
However, the only recognition made by the President of the European Commission has been that it will take time and effort to solve the problem created by the Irish referendum.
in writing. - (RO) The recent vote of the Irish was interpreted in various manners in the European Community and the speeches in the Parliament confirm the difficulties that this vote might produce.
I would like to refer briefly to the problems that the vote of the Irish citizens might cause in the public opinion of the countries recently integrated into the EU, especially the Eastern European countries.
The citizens of these countries will have great difficulties in understanding the binding nature of taking over those European norms involving economic sacrifices into the national framework, as well as a series of public policies that citizens consider much too restrictive for the economic stage in which these countries are now.
What I would like to emphasize here is that any attempt to introduce exceptional treatments in the Community framework will be certainly reflected in the 2009 political vote, which might provide reasons for the radicalization of an electorate that voted very enthusiastically in favour of these countries' accession to the EU.
It is a victory for popular sovereignty: we cannot deny this simple fact.
At the same time, however, a majority of the voters did not know what they were voting for, as was indicated by the fact that supporters of the 'no' campaign referred to historical grievances that have actually been resolved by European Union membership.
One thing is certain, however, and that is that in future we must discuss integration with the citizens of the European Union in a more intelligent, persuasive and readily comprehensible manner.
The facts are that the Union exists and the vote by the Irish nation is not a vote against the Union.
It is highly likely that if the same question had been put to the citizens of other countries in a referendum, they would have given exactly the same answer.
After all, the Treaty is incomprehensible even to an educated citizen of the European Union.
We would do well to consider whether this is not a novel signal indicating that the so-called elite should try to bridge the considerable gap that currently exists between citizens of the Member States and the leaders of political groupings at both national and Union level.
The Treaty can only enter into force if it is ratified by all the Member States.
There are at least two problems.
What is more, the EU elite obviously want to move forward too fast.
Now it is time for the small Member States to act.
The Treaty of Lisbon, if it took effect, would lead to a situation where each Member States would be without a Commissioner for a third of the time in turn as from 2014.
Finland's Commissioner is of special importance for small Member States, even though it is the duty of Commissioners to promote the interests of the EU as a whole.
In 1993, after a negative outcome regarding ratification of the Treaty on European Union, Denmark decided to hold a further referendum.
I firmly believe that on this occasion too, we should respect the outcome of the Irish referendum as being Ireland's sovereign decision.
The Union is based on respect for the right of all Member States to express their own will.
It should be clearly stated that rejection of the Treaty does not mean that the Irish people are opposed to the Union.
The forthcoming European Council is an opportunity to reflect on the causes and effects of the situation that has arisen.
The Council, the Commission and Parliament must consider what can be done to enable Europeans to better understand the Treaty and the intentions of the elite.
Europe must not become a two or more speed Europe.
I am confident that the Council will find a solution acceptable to those countries that have already ratified the Treaty, to Ireland, and also to Member States that are undecided as to how to proceed.
in writing. - (PL) The outcome of the Irish referendum upset the process of ratification of the Reform Treaty.
The process of ratification should continue, and I am confident that Ireland will make every effort to resolve the situation.
The Irish are known for their pro-European attitude.
This means that, unlike Dublin, Tallinn has helped to build a common future.
I am a firm supporter of the ratification process, and I believe that Ireland will make a new attempt to assure the 500 million citizens of Europe and they too bear the name of Europeans with honour.
in writing. - Mr President, although the result of the Irish referendum was a great disappointment to the European Union, it is not the proper time to panic and look for a scapegoat.
The European Council is about to hold its meeting on June 19 and 20 in Brussels.
We should first take time to hear the explanations of Taoiseach Brian Cowen and listen to his proposals on how to go on with Ireland.
In my opinion the remaining eight Member States must go on with the ratification as scheduled, despite the Irish "no".
In Ireland the people were able to vote on the new constitution, the Treaty of Lisbon.
That was democracy, and the Irish voted no on behalf of all the other nations.
They say that the small countries are not needed if they will not comply with the very real authority of the big ones.
The Irish people should take as much time as necessary in order to reflect on its European future.
Anyhow, the Irish must use their own time and not the others' time.
Eventually, through a new referendum, the Irish people should answer the question of whether they want to stay in the European Union on the basis of the Lisbon Treaty or if they want to play a 'chevalier role' in the storms of the global order.
in writing. - (PL) The rejection of the Lisbon Treaty by the people of Ireland has stifled any hope of swift institutional reform of the European Union.
The fact that they voted against the Treaty does not mean that they are negatively disposed towards the European Union as a whole.
I suspect that if a referendum had been carried out in all the Member States, Ireland would not have been the only one to say 'no'.
This means that we can take time to consider carefully how to correct the mistakes made.
in writing. - (PL) In view of the decision by the people of Ireland, as expressed in the latest referendum, it is even more important for Poland to finalise ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
If the President of Poland brings the process to a standstill on the basis of the argument concerning final signature, he will thereby align our country with those who are against the Treaty, in opposition to the overwhelming majority of countries who have accepted it.
Poland actually has the opportunity to play its part in a key action aimed at creating a strong Europe.
I am telling it very clearly: the Irish citizens did not vote against the European Union, but against the Lisbon Treaty.
We have clear signals that the content and grounds of this Treaty have not been understood, and the fears of the Irish people regarding the taxation system and the preservation of neutrality have been increased by certain political parties.
The European Parliament has to send a clear signal of support for the ratification process in the other Member States.
At the same time, we have to present viable solutions to the Irish citizens and the Irish government for overcoming this impasse.
In the end, the Lisbon Treaty is the necessary step forward for the European institutions system to operate more efficiently, under the ever more difficult global conditions to which every Member State has to respond: economic competitiveness, climate change, price increases for natural resources and many other aspects that affect us all.
Had referenda taken place in countries other than Ireland, the Irish 'no' would surely not have been the only one.
The result of the Irish referendum is not a disaster for Europe, as some people would have us believe.
I hope that the EU27 agree to continue with the ratification process in the Member States that have not yet taken a decision so that we will eventually know each country's exact position on this text.
The Slovenian and then the French Presidencies must work with Ireland to try to find a legally acceptable solution that would put an end once and for all to more than 15 years of efforts to reform the workings of the enlarged Europe.
The European Council must show them that Europe is helping to meet their expectations by reaching decisions on the fundamental issues.
in writing. - (HU) The Lisbon Treaty has been rejected by the very country that up to now has set an example of how to make full use of the benefits of European integration.
The referendum as an institution has proven to be an unsuitable instrument for deciding complex issues such as this.
The Irish referendum is a major problem, but it depends on us whether the European Union falls back into crisis this time or responds rapidly and decisively.
Nearly two thirds of the Member States have adopted the Treaty, including Hungary, the first country to do so.
The work of building Europe must continue, and to do that we need the Lisbon Treaty.
Ireland decided the ratification by referendum, and the Irish citizens rejected the Treaty.
In 2001, Ireland voted against the Treaty of Nice as well and, one year later, it ratified it.
The vote of the Irish people shows that this country's population considers the Community institutional construction a complicated one.
This Treaty deals with the issue of climate change, defines the European economy as a social market economy, emphasizes the need for a common energy policy and, in particular, gives legal value to the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The Reform Treaty enhances the level of democracy by increasing the power of the European Parliament and allows half of the national parliaments to reject a legislative project if it is deemed that it infringes the principle of subsidiary.
The vote of the Irish people shows us that we need responsibility and more dialogue, that we need to explain more and better the provisions of this new treaty to the European citizens, as well as the reasons why it is necessary.
A message of freedom and hope has gone out, loud and clear, from little Ireland.
I submit that instead of dreaming about an unattainable European superstate, we should launch a debate on the rights of the nations.
The Irish people's resounding 'no' vote has made the Lisbon Treaty unenforceable.
This represents a significant defeat for the Council, the European Commission and the European Parliament, and also for the centre-right and centre-left governments in the EU Member States (New Democracy (ND) and PASOK in Greece).
In Parliament's plenary sitting on 20 February 2008 they all voted against the proposal to respect the verdict of the Irish people and against holding referendums on the Lisbon Treaty in the Member States.
