Draft general budget 2009 (Section III) - Draft general budget 2009 (Sections I, II, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII and IX) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Jutta Haug, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2009 (C6-0309/2008 - and Letter of amendment No 1/2009 to the preliminary draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2009, Section III - Commission (SEC(2008)2435)); the report by Janusz Lewandowski, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2009 Section I, European Parliament Section II, Council Section IV, Court of Justice Section V, Court of Auditors Section VI, European Economic and Social Committee Section VII, Committee of the Regions Section VIII, European Ombudsman Section IX, European Data Protection Supervisor (C6-0310/2008 -.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the preparations for the first reading of the European budget for 2009 are pretty much complete.
The preparations for the first reading of our budget, during which we had to read, understand and evaluate 1 400 amendments, were greatly affected by the financial crisis.
We have therefore increased payments: we could not close the gap completely, but we have halved it, to leave a gaping hole of 8%.
In total, we have increased payments from 0.89% of gross national income - which was the level proposed by the Council - to 0.96%, rounded, of gross national income.
Under subheadings 1a and 3b, we want to distribute all the money to the budget lines that are important to us, and not leave any margin.
For our assistance in Kosovo, Afghanistan, Palestine and now Georgia, what we really needed was long-term programmes, not this continual hand-to-mouth existence.
This is nothing new, but this year the Commission gave us a new challenge: in view of the enormous global increases in food prices, in July it proposed what it called a food aid facility for the less developed countries, with a budget of EUR 1 billion for 2008 and 2009.
If the Commission had been diligent, it should immediately have suggested transferring the necessary resources from Heading 2 to Heading 4.
It was quite clear to the Committee on Budgets that we would not be able to find the necessary money in the budget lines under Heading 4, and so we created what is known as an 'asterisk amendment', containing EUR 250 million for food aid, 40 million for Kosovo, 80 million for Palestine and 20 million for Afghanistan.
The budget for 2009 has to meet a number of particular challenges.
We should accept these levels, both in the administration and in the political groups, as they are tied to the better functioning of legislative activity, making the lives of MEPs easier, and improvements in the new comitology, which should also be provided for in 2009.
There are two undertakings I would like to underline: for the Court of Justice, we have 39 new posts connected with the new agency procedure, and in the Court of Auditors we have three new posts which increase the organisation's potential, but which also make it possible to finance its new headquarters by means of frontloading.
My particular thanks to the people who helped me in this, namely Richard Wester and Marrianna Pari.
The Commission is largely in agreement with the new process on the pilot projects and preparatory actions proposed by Parliament.
This is the first time in our history of negotiations that we have already been able, before the summer, to receive and agree on the broad scope of these pilot projects.
I would also like to draw attention to a number of issues which still, at first reading, give rise to serious concerns for the Commission.
The first and most important concerns Heading 5.
However, at the same time, EUR 37 million have been put in the reserve, subject to certain conditions for its release.
On top of that, an additional reserve of some EUR 16 million for two specific policy areas, namely transport and environment, has also been reserved.
We are solving and trying to solve state aid and other problems in Member States in this fluctuating economic situation, and this can place the Commission at risk of legal challenge in the courts.
As usual, the Commission will try to be the honest broker between the two budgetary authorities, especially in negotiating the problems which arise in Heading 4, in Heading 5 and in the total ceilings of payment appropriations in the budget.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Madam President, Mrs Grybauskaitė, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to apologise for the absence of Mr Woerth, who has been held up in Paris in a good cause, since in France, too, it is budget season and time to present the finance bill to Parliament within the framework of the first public finance programming bill.
I am aware, having discussed this with Mr Böge too, how important this debate is in Parliament, and also how important it is for the French Presidency.
So far, our work has been carried out in a very positive atmosphere of cooperation, and I can assure you that the Council is prepared to continue this high-quality dialogue with a view to securing an agreement on the 2009 budget that is balanced and satisfactory to all.
Obviously, as you and Mrs Grybauskaitpointed out, in the current international climate, we have to ensure that Europe has the resources to fully play its role in the international sphere.
All this must, however, take place in accordance with the financial framework established for the 2007-2013 period.
I would therefore like to briefly mention three issues of particular importance: the first concerns payment appropriations and their amounts; the second concerns the rules of budgetary discipline and sound financial management; and the third concerns the food facility.
Now, what we have seen since the establishment of the Financial Perspective, which I followed from a different angle for a certain period of time, is that the Community budget has always been subject to an under-utilisation, and this has been the case since 1988.
The second issue is compliance with the rules on budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
The third issue concerns financing of the food facility.
I am convinced that the three institutions will make every effort to secure a comprehensive agreement on the 2009 budget, on the financing of the new initiatives I have just mentioned, during conciliation in November.
Ratification of the decision on own resources in the various Member States is going well, and we hope to be in a position to achieve the objective of its full and comprehensive entry into force by 1 January 2009.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - Madam President, it is an endless political bone of contention that Heading 4 is chronically underfinanced.
For the EU to become a global player, more money is needed in Heading 4.
With the current financial envelope, it is impossible to satisfy the needs of the different budgetary lines.
This is the reason why the Committee on Foreign Affairs strongly supports the strategy of the Committee on Budgetary Control seeking to restore the PDB on all budget lines and thus increase the budgetary lines for Kosovo by EUR 40 million and Palestine by EUR 139 million.
In other words, the Council and Parliament must allow utilisation of the flexibility instrument, and of all other available instruments provided for in the Interinstitutional Agreement, to allocate EUR 250 million on the food facility instrument, EUR 40 million on Kosovo, EUR 80 million for Palestine and EUR 20 million for Afghanistan.
It is heartening that the Committee on Budgets has incorporated an amendment proposed by the Committee on International Trade, withdrawing the Council's proposed 50% reduction in the figure for aid for trade.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - (FR) Madam President, Mrs Grybauskaitė, Mr Jouyet, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I would like to express satisfaction, regret and hope.
We cannot keep talking about how social dialogue is a pillar of our European social model, and then on the other hand reduce funding in exactly this area.
With regard the Committee's two pilot projects, allow me to say one thing: there was a broad consensus in favour of a pilot project relating to posted workers, and I am sure that the results of this project will bring us important insights for our future political decisions on the Posting of Workers Directive.
We will therefore certainly pay close attention to ensure that the Commission, in turn, turns its attention to those aspects that are important to us in this project, to prevent wage dumping and social dumping.
One of the most important changes is that next year, there will be 10% more resources available for environmental purposes than in 2008.
Thus, we will be able to allocate EUR 14 billion to environmental uses.
Problems persist, however, in spite of these efforts.
The financial market is showing its limits.
The proposed amendment, which is calling for resources to be allocated to educate consumers on financial matters, has been rejected by a majority in the Budget Committee.
The policy of cohesion must continue to be a medium-term budgetary policy of the EU.
When I, as rapporteur for the Regional Development Committee, drafted its opinion on the EP report into the aforementioned budget, I also wanted to contribute towards solving a problem which the Member States were trying to solve through their development programmes in the absence of a consolidated European approach in this area.
In proposing a pilot project which might assist in solving this problem at a European level, my aim is to encourage European awareness of the possibility of addressing the problem from a regional development perspective.
This matter is particularly apparent in the new Member States, where small enclaves of Roma communities constitute a serious developmental and social problem.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - (FI) Madam President, Heading 2 in the Commission's Preliminary Draft Budget, which the Council cut again, did not reflect Parliament's priorities.
In it, direct agricultural subsidies and marketing costs were overly conservatively estimated at EUR 2 027 million below the ceiling for the multiannual financial perspective.
However, the culture budget shows us that these great challenges have met with little success.
We also need to spend more on European film production, because we need to give our citizens a better understanding of the European narrative and European visions of Europe's history and future.
As regards the European Parliament, I would like to point out the problem posed by the legislative quality of our texts and the need for more and better investment in the work of lawyer-linguists.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. - (FR) Madam President, I shall speak in my capacity as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs but also as a socialist member of the Committee on Budgets.
It is for this reason, moreover, that I have two minutes instead of one. (EL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is concerned, what we have unfortunately observed is that, in a year in which we had the referendum in Ireland on the Constitutional Treaty, which demonstrated - apart from its result - the need for politicians to communicate with the citizens of the European Union, the Irish tell us that the main reason for the 'no' vote was precisely a lack of communication.
However, the fact that the proposals to strengthen two basic new political institutions, namely the European political parties and the European political institutions, were not accepted is unsatisfactory.
I have a few political comments to make on the actual budget which we are voting on this year and I say political, because the political role of the budget should ultimately be to allow us, through the budget, to play our part as the European Union.
As Commissioner Almunia said yesterday, and I quote him in French because he spoke in French, 'Il faut commencer à imaginer le budget de l'Europe'.
We see a budget of low payments, with a huge gap between commitments and payments and with an unsatisfactory answer to the actual political priorities of the European Union.
For example, I do not believe that, in an election year, so little money should be earmarked for communication and that, in a year of geopolitical crisis, so little money should be earmarked for foreign policy.
As draftsman of the opinion on the 2009 budget for the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, I am concerned by the unsatisfactory use of the budget for the needs of existing programmes such as the Progress or Daphne programmes.
The European Commission should also make considerable steps towards implementing the principles of equality in planning its budget, while the Member States must effectively promote these when using structural funds and the European Social Fund.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Petitions. - Madam President, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their diligent and very efficient work in what is a difficult task, and speak specifically on the issue of the Ombudsman's Office, where there will be an increase of almost 6% in the budget.
While I am on my feet, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture I should just like to say that the issue of food aid - and I say this also to the public who are gathered here - is something which touches people really deeply.
But it is also worth pointing out that our development aid in the past did focus on agriculture and food production, as other speakers have mentioned, and, tragically, in latter years we have drawn away from looking at the importance of production agriculture in the developing world.
Parliament is planning on less than EUR 10 billion additional funds for next year's programmes, all of which serve the real economy, and that is still 1.5 billion below the amount we provided for in the seven year framework budget.
The Council should be our partner in more vigorous economic development.
The EU must help our citizens who are in trouble as a result of the worldwide crisis.
Let us demonstrate that the European Union can not only prevent wars from breaking out in Europe, but can also overcome the financial and economic crisis affecting Europe.
We ought therefore to know whether the European Union wants to achieve its objectives and whether the Member States are willing or not to contribute to common policies.
Faced with this impossible task, Parliament, through the work of our rapporteur, is assuming its authority.
However, it is vital that, at a time when Europe is deciding to inject EUR 1 700 billion to help the euro zone's banking sector, we manage to find EUR 250 million for the food facility for 2009.
Thus, on 21 November, the ball will be in the Council's court.
Parliament has respected the authorised procedures in all their forms: respect for the Financial Perspective, the call for flexibility under the EUR 530 million ceiling and the call for an emergency aid reserve that features in the financial perspective.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe support the result of the vote in the Committee on Budgets.
In view of Russia's invasion of Georgia, it was important to the ALDE Group both to secure reconstruction aid for Georgia and to support the development of the Nabucco gas pipeline, which is intended to ensure a supply of gas to Europe outside Russian control.
We will hit the ceiling in the multi-annual agreement for the budget in three headings, namely 1a for research, education and transport and Heading 3b for legal policy, and we will go beyond the ceiling in Heading 4, foreign policy.
The budgetary ceilings for foreign policy go on being too restrictive, and every year we have to fight to fund new priorities.
The Commission has proposed funding the food facility for developing countries using the money saved from the EU's export refunds.
The money has, of course, been saved as a result of the high food prices which, in turn, create problems of starvation in poor countries.
The ALDE Group has tabled a proposal to place 12% of the funds from the Structural Funds programmes in reserve.
Mr Lewandowski had an interesting task in preparing Parliament's and the other institutions' budget.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union's budget for 2009 can only yield minor successes, because we are working within the straitjacket of the Financial Perspective.
The 2009 budget reflects all of this to only a very limited extent, and that is our shared problem: our European budget is simply not up to the challenges of the present time.
It is unlikely that there is any committee or political group in the European Parliament which will be satisfied by this budget.
Although the political priorities for 2009 have been set, it has not been possible to keep any of the priorities at such a level as to make it clear that they have been favoured financially.
Officially the budget retains all the indicators set out in the multi-annual financial framework, but we all expected it to be higher.
We all know that this is not enough money for everything the Council considers important, as Parliament has its own legitimate preferences for the use of these funds.
We in our group are not very anxious to support the growth in external expenditure in itself.
The skilled and thoughtful rapporteurs deserve all credit for their work within the current framework.
What we find here is a Globalisation Fund that now gives EUR 2.4 million to Portugal and EUR 10 million to Spain.
We are debating a budget that is technically well designed, but politically idiotic. (SK) Last year, we were similarly appalled at the low levels of expenditure in the EU budget for 2008.
Expenditure for 2009 represents 0.89% of GDP.
The governments of most Member States will not manage to secure a full drawdown of EU funds in the current year.
We will not find in our own countries an effective way to put pressure on governments, ministries and other bodies within the public administration to direct appropriate levels of funding into these areas.
I support an increase in expenditure from the EU budget, as is proposed in the excellent report of Jutta Haug.
At the same time, however, I wonder whether we are just tilting at windmills. (ES) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, what is the ultimate goal, the raison d'être, of an EU budget in a year of real and total financial crisis?
The Commission's role has never been more important than in this year of deep crisis.
For that reason, my Group supports, among other aspects, more funding for the trans-European networks irresponsibly forgotten by the Council, in particular, more funding for the energy networks, and also more funding for payment appropriations under the convergence heading. (NL) Mr President, the budgets of the other institutions boast a reasonable balance between the ever huge demand, an almost chronic demand, for more staff and the need to restrict expenditure.
The European Parliament, being the cautious budgetary authority that it is, remains within the agreed boundaries (one fifth of the budget of the institutions), but invests in knowledge nevertheless, by increasing staffing levels within the groups and by increasing capacity in the library.
Firstly, I should like, very briefly, in the time I have available to me, to say to you that I am delighted overall with a number of guidelines that have been preserved within the framework of a budget that is very constrained, even tight, as some of our fellow Members have said.
Fundamental guidelines relating to growth, employment and climate change have been preserved, and we even have an increase in the total level of payments on these priorities, at any rate.
Moving on, secondly, I am delighted with regard to a more specific point: the fact that we have managed, through the Committee on Budget's proposal, to make lines concerning research and innovation and all that which concerns the Structural Funds more understandable, thereby providing our fellow citizens with practical answers.
This is a large, very ambitious construction site where we are going to build one of the largest buildings in the world, with a fully autonomous energy supply.
We have had the result of our study on our carbon footprint for two days now.
This House consumes 200 000 tonnes of CO2 each year.
If we want to meet and achieve the objective of less than 30% in 12 years, we will need some resources.
I shall conclude simply by commending the quality of the work done by our friend, Mr Lewandowski, because, in the new conciliation method we have put in place, we have been very, very lucky to have him as a leader. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, in this debate there are four matters to which I would like to draw your attention.
Firstly, even though the expenditure in the budget of EUR 124 billion for appropriations is the highest in the history of the European Union, it is the lowest in terms of the Gross National Product of the 27 Member States.
We still have roads and bridges that lead nowhere, we are replacing the pavements in Karínia outside the Turkish casinos no less, and EUR 400 million provide electricity in Kosovo, where the subsequent receipts simply disappear.
With the additional EUR 13 million we should like to set aside, we should like to increase the number of schools and also extend the range with a number of healthy products.
It will now be 2009 before fruit will be provided in schools free of charge, and a mere EUR 1.3 million has been earmarked for networking and the provision of information.
Secondly, I should like to draw your attention to a proposed investigation into returns in the food production chain.
I hope, Commissioner, that together with your colleague for Competition, you will want to get your teeth into this issue. (SV) Mr President, as the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy's rapporteur for the budget, I should like to thank Mrs Haug for having listened so carefully to our priorities, which genuinely make their presence felt in the budget.
The Committee on Industry, Research and Energy proposes increases of at least 5% in all the operational appropriations relating to climate and energy, but this is still a drop in the ocean.
As a socialist, I see the need for Food Aid, but the debate on funding shows the weaknesses in the budget system.
President Sarkozy yesterday pointed out the need for common efforts directed at European trade and industry as a result of the crisis, but there are no such resources in the EU budget.
I would also like to see this support being made available to all regions throughout Europe, not only in more urban areas, but also in rural communities.
I would also like to see strong support for the CAP health check in the coming years in order to ensure a healthy food supply locally and not to have to depend on food imports from faraway lands. (EL) Mr President, in an election year, the budget should have two distinctive characteristics: firstly, resources that reflect the ambition of the European Union and, secondly, responses and political messages to the expectations of the average citizen, especially in the current difficult economic climate.
For this electoral year and at a time of growing scepticism regarding the Union, raising the citizens' awareness of European issues is crucial.
The forthcoming visitors' centre in Brussels is part of this, but I fear that certain amendments adopted in committee will delay its highly anticipated opening.
Parliament and the Commission must be encouraged in all policies designed to increase support among the citizens for the European project. (DE) Mr President, I will focus on Heading 4, which relates to the EU's external activities.
As our financial plans have not provided sufficient funds, in 2009 we once again need to obtain additional resources from the Member States for our increased work.
In particular, there must be no cutbacks in our commitments and payments in our immediate neighbourhood: it is important for candidate countries, our east European neighbours, and our partners on the Mediterranean, to see the EU as a reliable partner that they can count on.
Looking at the implementation of the 2008 budget - for example, for Palestine alone - and the number of amending letters, I can already tell that we are going to end up in a similar situation in 2009.
On 21 November, we will, together, be mobilising the flexibility instrument in line with our proposals, which means that, next year, we will not be so easily available for amendments.
I believe it is important to disseminate our political viewpoint in these areas, so that the people know what position Europe is taking.
As you know, there is now a network of political foundations covering five political groupings, and it is unfortunately our experience that these groups are effectively locked out of the implementation of our policies and of support for democracy.
The Commission is preparing its own Baltic Strategy for next year, but no strategy has any significance unless it also has funding, and funding has to be organised this way.
The broad agreement that we will, I hope, achieve in tomorrow's vote should send a very clear political message, in particular for the conciliation on 21 November.
This is evidence of the good cooperation we have begun.
In this connection, we are looking forward to constructive negotiations. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, 2009 will be a very special period, as it will relate to the proper implementation of investments related to cohesion policy.
I hope that neither this House, nor the Commissioner, will accept any associations and allocations to reserves of this nature.
I noted these various points, as well as the needs of your institution, which have been pointed out, and that we need to single out two elements at the end of this debate.
The first is the discussion on the future of the European budget.
It is within this context that the Commission, the European Parliament and the Member States must take a stand and design the future multiannual financial framework.
We had spoken about this with Mr Böge.
The second is the issues at stake in the 2009 budgetary procedure.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I am grateful to all those who have taken part in this debate.
We do understand that, because you feel the pinch, but this year we wanted - and we will see this in the vote tomorrow - to lay down conditions for releasing the reserve that you will be in a position to meet quite independently.
Our budget runs to just under EUR 130 billion; together, we have room for manoeuvre of a few hundred million.
Mr President, I would like to use the extra time to speak in support of the many voices of Members of the various political groups regarding the critical situation under Heading 4 of the budgets, which are for funding the European Union's international ambitions.
The situation has been the same this year too, when we have huge commitments regarding food aid, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Palestine, which have been mentioned frequently in this House, as well as Georgia, where the question is not just of the country's orientation, but also of the security of alternative energy supplies, has been raised.
I thank everyone who has spoken on the issue of the Parliament's and other institutions' budgets.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, 23 October.
In this respect, therefore, I am arguing that the creation of a specific ''Climate Change Fund'' or a dedicated budget line would significantly improve the EU's capability to effectively address climate change issues from a budgetary and financial perspective.
