Annual report on the European Ombudsman's activities in 2007 (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Zdravkova, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, on the annual report on the European Ombudsman's activities in 2007.
rapporteur (BG). - Thank you, Madam President, and thank you for that reminder.
As Jean Monnet said, we are building Union among people, not cooperation between States.
Similarly, I have had the pleasure of working on a report that unites, rather than divides the political groups in the European Parliament.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Secretariat and all those who contributed to making this report more complete.
The report shows that many citizens do not yet know how to stand up for the rights given to them by the European Union when faced with maladministration.
In conclusion, I call upon you to vote for this report, because it supports constructive cooperation between the Ombudsman and the institutions and bodies of the European Union, and confirms the Ombudsman's role as an external control mechanism and a source of constant improvement for European administration.
Ombudsman. - Madam President, thank you for this opportunity to address Parliament on the annual report of the European Ombudsman for 2007.
The number of admissible complaints increased, in both absolute and relative terms, from 449 (12% of the total) in 2006 to 518 (16% of the total) in 2007.
In 95 cases, the inquiry revealed no maladministration.
I have continued to make every effort to ensure that EU institutions and bodies adopt a citizen-centred approach in all their activities, by seeking every opportunity to achieve friendly solutions and by launching more own-initiative inquiries in order to identify problems and encourage best practice.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, on behalf of the Commission and of my colleague, Vice-President Wallström, let me thank the rapporteur Mrs Zdravkova for her excellent work.
We welcome the Committee on Petitions' report about the Ombudsman's annual report on his activities in 2007.
But I would like to remind you that this special report concerns the Working Time Directive, and it was only last month that you had a discussion on that with my colleague Vladimir Špidla.
The Europa website is common to all EU institutions and has links to all other EU institutions, including the Ombudsman's website.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Mr Diamandouros, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur Mrs Zdravkova on her report, which I believe is her first.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (GA) Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Zdravkova, for her work on this report.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on a very comprehensive report and also the Ombudsman and his staff on the many positive steps that they took in 2007.
So I have a question: is it made clear to the 1 021 citizens that no action is possible by the Ombudsman, with a clear explanation given with further advice where possible, or is it the case that simply no action is taken?
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DA) Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for her splendid report.
However, there is no maladministration in cases in which the Ombudsman merely notes that there is room for improvement in the way in which the institution handles matters.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, Ombudsman, Commissioner, I should like to begin by commending Mrs Zdarvkova on her very good report.
It also highlights the excellent cooperation between the Ombudsman and the European Parliament and the Committee on Petitions.
Thanks are also due to Mrs Zdravkova for her report.
I in turn should like to thank the European Ombudsman, Mr Diamandouros, for his exceptional work, and our rapporteur, Mrs Zdravkova, on her very interesting report and take this opportunity to underline certain points: Firstly, the fact that the number of complaints received by the Ombudsman is increasing is a very good thing, but it contradicts the Commission's self-satisfaction in terms of constant improvements to its administration and greater transparency.
We also need cooperation between the European Ombudsman and the ombudsmen in similar organisations at national, regional and local level in the Member States.
I am concerned that in some cases when an individual brings a case to the Commission the needs and rights of the individual are overtaken by the involvement of the Member State, almost like a victim in a court case being ignored by the prosecution.
If these concerns are properly addressed, then we will be making some progress towards improving the credibility of, and confidence in, the Union as a whole. (BG) Ladies and gentlemen, the European Ombudsman's report for 2007 demonstrates how beneficial its activities are as a champion of citizens's rights when these have been infringed, or the European institutions threaten to do so.
I welcome the fact that the number of admissible complaints has increased, as this proves that Europe's citizens are becoming increasingly aware of the real power of the Ombudsman.
This is underlined by the fact that, for procedural reasons, the Ombudsman can only consider one in six of the complaints he receives.
The fact that more than one thousand of the complaints addressed to the Ombudsman were not considered and no action was taken on them is also cause for concern, as was mentioned in the report. (NL) Madam President, the report by the Committee on Petitions is, in essence, very constructive and very positive about the work of the European Ombudsman, and I can personally endorse this view to a large extent.
More specifically, in my view, the European Ombudsman should in next year's report, and I would ask him to do this, focus on the way in which the rejection of the Treaty of Lisbon as a result of a democratic referendum in Ireland, rendering this Treaty legally null and void, is deliberately and repeatedly ignored in documents and in decision-making by all European institutions.
The fact that the number of admissible complaints received by the Ombudsman increased in 2007, while the number of inadmissible complaints fell in 2007, compared with 2006, is proof of the fact that European citizens have started to understand the remit of this institution.
Mrs Zdravkova also deserves hearty congratulations on having achieved unanimous decisions and cooperation in her first report for our committee.
Ombudsman, Parliament does not always place you in a very comfortable position when you are called upon especially to rule on decisions that we take and the actions of this House.
I also wish to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Zdravkova, as well as the Ombudsman for all his hard work.
I would like to mention in particular the positive consequences of his recommendations concerning the use of the languages of the new Member States in the recruitment and selection process organised by EPSO.
In 20% of the cases they received, the case had already been handled by the court and I could not handle it.
It is true that, when we address a complaint, the complainants are not always completely satisfied with the solution proposed.
