rapporteur. - Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs very much for their good collaboration on this report.
In October 2006 the Commission produced an action plan for energy efficiency, proposing a 20% improvement in energy efficiency by 2020 and setting out 10 priority areas for action.
Over 40% of the energy we use is consumed in buildings and 75% of the buildings standing today will still be here in 2050, so we need to tackle energy efficiency in existing buildings as well as in new stock.
Six months after the 30 June deadline, a third of Member States have still not submitted their national energy efficiency action plans.
I would, however, like to thank the Commission for responding in a very positive and constructive manner to the criticisms voiced in this report and, in particular, the exchange of letters between Commissioner Piebalgs and Ms Niebler, which has brought an update to Parliament on the situation.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would very much like to thank Ms Hall for a very timely and important report.
We are definitely concentrating our efforts not only on the implementation of current legislation but on actually delivering our agenda of energy efficiency action plans.
But I believe this directive also offers very good guidelines for the Commission to follow, because it is very concrete.
I should point out that as European citizens we can all contribute to the effort, as much in terms of mapping out policies as in implementing existing legislation, through the choices we make in our everyday lives.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group . - Mr President, I agree with Ms Hall when she points out in her report that energy efficiency is the most cost-effective and immediately available tool in the battle to cap greenhouse gas emissions.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the report by Ms Hall, whom I congratulate on her complex approach, draws attention to a significant delay on the part of the Member States and the Commission in implementing existing legislation in this area.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Mr President, may I begin by thanking and congratulating my colleague Fiona Hall, who has come up with the right response to a very important and judicious fundamental initiative from the Commission.
A specific reference is made to patio heaters or Heizpilze - 'heat toadstools', as some people call them in Germany.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, to this day homo sapiens has been causing serious damage to the environment, of which he himself is the most important element.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, the Hall report is ringing the alarm bells.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Madam President, there is general agreement in the EU that we need to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in order to stem climate change, but this must not lead to a bureaucratic society without freedom and dynamism.
Europe's most important problem today is energy use and its impact on the climate.
Energy efficiency is definitely one of the pillars that will underpin our energy policy for a long time to come.
At the same time, if our ultimate goal is to save the planet from catastrophic climate change while having a energy-secure and competitive Europe on the global market, then the remaining 80 per cent of energy should be given adequate attention.
These 80 per cent include nuclear energy which is currently underestimated and continues to be overshadowed by apprehensions and dogma over the past two decades.
This debate on Ms Hall's report has clearly shown that we need to move more quickly.
It is what we in the Netherlands call a 'low-hanging fruit': if we seize these opportunities, then we can very quickly help to achieve the common targets we have set ourselves and that we reiterated in Bali and confirmed again in the Commission's package of 23 January.
In the Committee on Regional Policy we noted - and Mr Buzek mentioned this - that in the period up to 2006 it was perfectly possible to prioritise energy and energy efficiency among the aims of the Structural Funds, yet only 1.16% was actually spent on this.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank Members of Parliament for a very substantial debate.
I would not mind additional money in my colleagues' budget - Mr Potočnik's budget or the external relations budget - but it should be seen in common in the budget debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 31 January 2008.
in writing. - The Plan of Action was targeting 20 % efficiency by 2020 is an ambitious plan but a necessary one.
in writing. - (HU) Improving energy efficiency is the most obvious solution for reducing the emission of harmful substances.
It is a welcome development that the European Commission has acknowledged the particular situation of the former Socialist countries in its action plan, and specifies the promotion of energy efficiency as a priority objective in the new Member States.
in writing. - First of all, I would like to welcome the initiative report by Ms Hall.
in writing. - (FI) There are probably few decisions as far-reaching in their effect and as self-contradictory as the Council's three-pronged plan on climate policy as stated in spring 2007: a reduction in emissions of 20%, a 20% saving in energy, and a renewables share of 20%, all by the year 2020.
There is broad consensus on this and on the content of the report in Parliament and I would like to thank Mrs Hall for making this possible.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, in this debate on the rational use of energy, while agreeing with the main arguments of the rapporteur, Ms Hall, I want to draw attention to some issues that are of particular importance for the new Member States. 1.
Such a growth rate will mean a significant increase in CO2 emissions, something that was not taken into account in the proposals put forward by the European Commission in its recent energy and climate change package. 2.
in writing. - (HU) As the EPP-ED rapporteur in the Committee on the Environment on the Green Paper on improving energy efficiency (Doing More with Less), I welcome the repeated and increased Community efforts in this area.
in writing. - First of all, I would like to welcome the initiative report of Mrs Hall.
in writing. - First of all I would like to congratulate Ms Hall on a truly comprehensive report, dedicated to improving energy efficiency and calling on the Member States that are far behind the implementation of existing legislation to take all the necessary measures.
in writing. - Mr President, I congratulate Ms Hall on this report, which contains a number of sold, sensible, achievable suggestions to encourage energy efficiency.
