Among them is Betel, the largest charity organisation in Europe with 150-year-long experience in providing care to mentally disabled people.
We all had suspicions that something had occurred along these lines but never before has the evidence been so clear; so clear that it requires Parliament to take a stance if only to state that such a shameful thing must never occur again. - (LT) The fact that reports by European politicians on global warming, energy saving and similar issues are received with indifference in most European countries is cause for concern.
In my opinion, we should have this material only on the Internet and put a stop to printing it out. (PL) Mr President, on 10 October two activists from the Polish Association in Belarus, Angelika Borys and Igor Bancer, were arrested again in Grodno.
It now looks as though we will be able to include these events in our discussion on the general report on Wednesday.
We should exercise caution in the use of such terms, Mr Batten. (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a year before the start of the Beijing Olympic Games, worrying messages are being daily given out to the public at large.
More than 800 jobs are likely go by 2009, although neither the company's industrial performance nor its financial results indicate any crisis behind these redundancies.
I should like to put on record before the House how much I respect the trade union representatives and workers who, despite the deeply gloomy prospect they face, have shown a tremendous sense of responsibility from the outset.
Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the deteriorating situation on the border between Iraq and Turkey.
On Sunday morning, 12 Turkish soldiers and 32 Kurds were killed in a Kurdish ambush.
Entering the common European home, we have to make our personal efforts to gain our well deserved place rather than receive it as a gift. (HU) Mr President, tomorrow Hungary celebrates the anniversary of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution and fight for freedom.
The past few years, and the debates that have taken place on the nature of Hitlerism and Stalinism and the damage they caused, including debates in this House, have demonstrated that Europe's more fortunate western half experienced history very differently from the ten newly acceded central European Member States.
Likewise, 9 May has a different meaning for us.
The uniqueness of 1956 lies in the fact that no other uprising involved a people taking up arms against the world's largest army, the Soviet army, and no other case involved a country declaring its neutrality.
All the goals for which the heroes of 1956 were fighting - democracy, the rule of law, and liberty - were realised with the regime change.
The accident that happened in Romania, in Baia Mare, in the year 2000, when, following the crack of a tailing pond, approximately 100,000 m3 of water contaminated with cyanide and heavy metals was spilled, caused the biggest catastrophe in Eastern Europe since Chernobyl.
Under Article 44 of that agreement, all Member States are obliged to give certification for financial transactions involving EU monies.
I am advised that under the current programme the Commission will not receive relevant information from the Member States until 15 February 2008.
I urge you, Mr President, to take every opportunity to insist that Member States attach far greater urgency to this matter in the future. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the United Nations has set 10 December next as the deadline for determining the future status of Kosovo.
The European Union must be the initiator, because a failure to take responsibility towards the next generation on the global scale is now inflicting material and non-material damage on Europe's citizens. (SK) Allow me to praise the fifth edition of the European Week of Regions and Cities that took place in Brussels from 8 to 11 October 2007.
I want to thank our President, Mr Hans-Gert Pöttering, for his speech that conferred dignity on this event.
For Europe's security it would be very important to launch the cooperation on crisis management agreed at the meeting of November 2003, especially in respect of frozen conflicts.
They have reported 197 cases of the tropical virus.
The risk of the virus being transmitted to other European countries is also high.
Infected people can initiate new transmission cycles in other regions of the Union. (EL) Mr President, last week Arat Dink, son of Hrant Dink, the murdered Turkish journalist , was found guilty by a Turkish court because of a series of articles he had written on the Armenian genocide.
Hrant Dink has been given a one-year suspended prison sentence.
That exhibition documented the sufferings of the Hungarian minority under the Czechoslovak Government after 1945 on the basis of collective guilt.
I am asking the Hungarian Government to respect the Treaty of Peace signed with Hungary in Paris on 10 February 1947.
I can see nothing better that could be done in the name of peace and mutual understanding between our nations.
Of these, 80 000 deaths are due to passive smoking.
Smoke has been found to contain 4 000 substances, of which 50 are carcinogens.
Can I ask you to do two things: first of all, to convey yet again the strong feelings of this House that Mugabe should not be invited to Lisbon in December, and secondly, to respect the wishes of this House and not attend any EU summit to which Mugabe or any other banned Zimbabwean politicians are invited? (PL) Mr President, during today's discussions in the European Parliament we shall be considering the report by Richard Corbett on the amendment of Rule 173 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament concerning verbatim reports.
Mr President, Howard Stern - sorry, the Stern weekly showed the 'private parts' of the German society by publishing in its latest issue that every fourth German still believes that National Socialism had good sides.
Recently, Germany was allocated 96 seats.
In a situation of European integration it is particularly important to differentiate between these completely different concepts that are confused by many people.
