It is disappointing that Amendments 376, 489 and 529 were rejected (232 votes for, 333 votes against).
in writing. (SV) We want the budget to contribute to sustainable social, economic and environmental development for the EU in accordance with the Lisbon Strategy.
in writing. - (FR) On Thursday 26 October, the European Parliament adopted the first reading of the European Union's budget for 2007.
In this context, the 2007 budget has turned out to be very modest, corresponding to 1.04% of the European Union's GNI.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament has therefore decided to vote in favour of this 2007 budget, having received assurances concerning their priorities in relation to the Lisbon and Gothenburg strategies.
These priorities include, in particular, education, training, research and sustainable development.
The revival of the communication policy and the emergence of new pilot projects are also encouraging in terms of the future of the European Union.
I voted against Amendment 811, which refers to the Committee on Budgets' rural development programmes, and against Amendment 3 to paragraph 23, because they restrict funding for rural development and block 'voluntary modulation' under the terms in which it is proposed by the Commission.
in writing. (SV) The June List believes that the EU's budget should be limited to 1% of the Member States' average GNI.
But our opposition to a constantly increasing budget is firm, and therefore we have chosen to vote against the report in the final vote.
in writing. - (FR) This vote is in response to an unacceptable multiannual budgetary framework.
This budget will not encourage the stimulation of growth in Europe.
That said, I welcome the emphasis in this budget on proper control and getting value for money. (FR) Mr President, I regret that paragraphs 18 and 44 of the Grech report were not subject to a split vote, as I would have voted against them.
I would also have voted against paragraph 44, which takes a dim view of the 'Strasbourg experience'.
I regret, however, that paragraphs 18 and 44 were not subject to split votes, as I would have voted against them.
The proposal for a Council regulation providing for an extension of these derogations for the outermost regions until 31 December 2006 and the practical implementation of measures adopted in the interim by 2008, must of course be adopted at the earliest opportunity, so that it can actually have the desired effect on the ground.
The purpose of this proposal is to extend the derogations granted to fishing fleets in the outermost regions until 31 December 2006, and subsequently until 31 December 2007.
It was a matter of great urgency that this proposal be adopted, in view of the specific structural, social and economic realities of the fishing industry in the outermost regions, for example the Azores and Madeira, coupled with the permanent difficulties and constraints faced by these regions, such as their limited markets and their remoteness.
in writing. - (FR) Today, the European Parliament is voting under urgent procedure on a Council Regulation on the management of fishing fleets registered in the outermost regions, which extends the regulation currently in force by one year.
I have already asked on numerous occasions for these derogations to be extended beyond 2006.
It would have been more sensible to accept this proposal right from the start, instead of coming to Parliament each year asking for the derogations, which are absolutely vital for fisheries in our regions, to be extended for another year.
The final resolution jointly signed and supported by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and by the neo-liberals and other groups with the exception of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left adopts the anti-communist memorandum taken from the Council of Europe and reintroduced into the European Parliament.
The call by the servants of capitalist barbarism in paragraph 3 of the resolution on the 'democratic community' '...
For most of us, the 1956 Hungarian uprising is a distant memory in terms of time, geography and even in politics.
The recent incident involving a Dutch company dumping waste in the Ivory Coast demonstrates that many in Europe still see Africa as a dumping ground.
in writing. (SV) The June List believes that the EU should not interfere in other countries' internal affairs.
I find this policy to be very disingenuous and destructive, and to be so in a way exemplified clearly by the current report.
We are vehemently opposed, however, to some of the key points in the report.
The statements by the Council and the Commission and the European Parliament resolution are a blatant and unprovoked attack on Syria, from which they want a statement of apology for its policy and its subjugation to imperialism.
The escalating aggressive policy of the EU reveals the nature of UN Resolution 1701 by announcing in advance the role which the military occupying forces of the Member States of the European Union will play in the area.
There is a very broad consensus within the European Union, as the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC) has lent its support to some very ambitious objectives to combat climate change.
The Weiler report that is being put to the vote today includes a number of positive points on the future of public-private partnerships, particularly as regards the Green Paper and Commission communication.
in writing. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Community legal framework for public-private partnerships (PPPs) does indeed need to be clarified.
Mr President, I should like to give my explanation of vote on paragraph 4 of the Schroedter report on the posting of workers.
It is worth noting that the Irish minimum wage is in excess of EUR 8 per hour.
The Posted Workers Directive is closely related to the Services Directive and, despite an intense and justifiable struggle by MEPs from the new Member States, the European Parliament in the first reading omitted Articles 24 and 25 from the draft Directive on services in the internal market.
We consider these articles to be crucial, as the basic ideas of the Posted Workers Directive are interpreted differently in different Member States, and workers are generally unaware of their rights as guaranteed by the Directive.
I have voted against the Schroedter report because it did not include key amendments aimed at ensuring greater mobility within the EU labour market.
The Schroedter report on the posting of workers calls for extra bureaucracy such as prior declarations from companies intending to post workers and the requirement to keep detailed time sheet records, etc.
In this context UK Conservatives have been unable to support this report.
in writing. (SV) The report points out that the Posting of Workers Directive is not being applied in full by all the Member States.
That is one of the things that we have stated clearly in the debates on the Services Directive.
It is unacceptable that the Commission has tried, in its communication, to reintroduce the country of origin principle even though it was rejected by Parliament during the vote on the Services Directive.
The political mouthpieces of European capital (the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and social democrats and liberals) who voted for the Bolkestein directive in the European Parliament in February 2006, with a new unacceptable compromise in the report on the Commission communication, are stuttering out lukewarm recommendations, thereby facilitating the EU's attempts to direct the workers' movement.
The Schroedter report redraws the balance between economic liberalisation and social protection.
The European Parliament must bear its responsibility with regard to the social protection of workers, and that is why I support the Schroedter report.
in writing. (PL) The Schroedter report on the implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive undermines all the valuable provisions enshrined in the European Commission's Guidance on the Posting of Workers, following the compromise reached on the Services Directive.
The report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs undermines all the key provisions of the aforementioned Guidance on the Posting of Workers.
in writing. - (FR) It is a fact: the directive on the posting of workers has not been properly implemented in some Member States and is not fulfilling its objectives.
That is why I voted in favour of Mrs Schroedter's own-initiative report.
in writing. (SV) In a referendum, the Swedish people rejected the introduction of the euro by a broad majority.
Paragraph 27 contains propaganda in favour of the Constitution.
Nevertheless, as the European Union in general and the euro zone in particular are our largest trading partners, we are ever vigilant of the need for the euro's stability, since this directly affects Britain's prosperity.
in writing. - (FR) Since the euro was introduced seven years ago, the purchasing power of the people of Europe has fallen considerably.
