Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (LT) Today in the European Parliament we have adopted the resolution on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community at second reading.
I do hope that the amended Regulation will be implemented appropriately in all EU Member States. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, today, after 16 years, we have finally given the green light to simplification, unification and at the same time tighter restrictions in regard to the granting and revoking of air operating licences.
I voted for the regulation.
Since there was no plenary debate, I wanted to mention the substance of the compromise recommendations. (MT) It is important that the European Parliament is aware of the situation in my country regarding water and electricity prices and the effect of today's decision, that is, regarding this case.
In my opinion, however, we have to take into account the structural diversity of the natural gas and electricity markets and therefore make a distinction between them.
It is necessary to focus especially on harmonisation of the degree of openness of the national markets. (IT) Mr President, I abstained from the final vote and voted against the proposal for the so-called 'third option' as regards the separation of suppliers and networks in the gas market, because we have lost a major opportunity to affirm the principle of free competition in the gas market.
What is even worse is that this ambiguous third option in practice means that the former monopolies will be further encouraged and helped to enter into agreements along the lines of those with the Russian gas giant, Gazprom. (DE) Mr President, as everyone in this House knows, we have had an EC Regulation on the coordination of the European social security systems since 2004 but, unfortunately, no implementing regulation.
In other words, we in the European Parliament have ensured that people can obtain real help on welfare matters. (NL) I abstained in the vote on the Bozkurt report, although in principle I have no objection to a limited form of coordination by the EU Member States of their various social security systems, certainly not if that works to the advantage of European citizens living in a Member State other than their own.
As a Fleming I am, in a manner of speaking, a privileged observer of how a unitary system of social security in Belgium for just two population groups, Flemings and Walloons, is totally unworkable and leads to enormous abuses.
For goodness' sake let each Member State organise and finance its own social security itself, otherwise one way or another you end up with an abuse-ridden system which is worse, more expensive and less efficient, and ultimately that creates less, not more solidarity amongst the peoples of Europe. (DE) Mr President, I also wanted to explain that I voted in favour of this report because it proposes a new regulation in place of the old one, thereby ensuring that our systems of social security can now be more effectively coordinated, because the relevant legal provisions have been simplified and amended.
The Lambert report also enables us to achieve our objectives of making another contribution to greater mobility in the European Union and enabling people to take their entitlement to welfare benefits with them when they find employment in another Member State.
That is a contribution to social security in the European Union. (NL) Thank you, Madam President.
Incidentally, that number is often much lower, at 15, 10 or 8, and in some cases a single person is enough to form a political group.
The Corbett report is therefore an attack on democracy and, quite simply, on the basic rules of fair play. (NL) This Corbett report has just one purpose, and one purpose only, namely to muzzle the right-wing national voices in the European Parliament.
This is a two-fold discrimination because administrative methods are being used to stop the formation of groups and, at the same time, considerable amounts of additional financial support are being given to organised political groups, which gives them an additional advantage.
This priority will also reduce CO2 emissions and should be included in the strategy.
It is important to support clean coal technologies and to intensify our activities as regards second and third generation biofuels as well as to increase research into nuclear power.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I am voting for this resolution.
I believe that Erasmus is a key instrument for sustainable development since, as my report stresses, it should promote the return of students to their own countries and thus contribute, through the fund of ideas, knowledge and international contacts that they have gained, to the growth of their country's economies.
in writing. - (PT) As it is impossible to mention all the important points in this report, I would like to highlight that after the Irish people's emphatic NO to the Treaty of Lisbon, this Parliament continues to pretend and act as though nothing has happened.
in writing. - (IT) The Verts/ALE Group has always considered that the European Union should have a permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council, as set out in the Lambsdorff report.
Our Group does not, however, accept the 'priority' status that has been afforded to the initiative known as the 'Overarching Process' under which there would be an increase in the number of permanent national members and which, in our view, has to be seen as only one of a range of initiatives.
I voted in favour of the report.
That proposal, which has been supported by less than one third of the membership, has from the outset seemed divisive and unbalanced, as the President of the General Assembly has himself pointed out.
While we would stress that we very much welcome the political attention that the European Parliament is focusing on the overall strengthening of the European Union's profile in the United Nations, we consider that our reservations and objection to the part of the recommendation on the 'Overarching Process' should be minuted.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I should like to give a favourable opinion on the Lambsdorff report, which once again highlights the European Parliament's commitment to strengthening the European Union's profile in the United Nations.
I would therefore ask you to minute my reservation about this section of the recommendation.
That proposal, which has been supported by less than one third of the membership, has from the outset seemed divisive and unbalanced, as the President of the General Assembly has himself pointed out.
While I would stress that I very much welcome the political attention that the European Parliament is focusing on the overall strengthening of the European Union's profile in the United Nations, I consider that my reservation and objection to the part of the recommendation on the 'Overarching Process' should be minuted.
in writing. - (PT) It is worrying that the issue of United Nations reform crops up so regularly.
This impasse is serious for two reasons.
in writing. - The Lambsdorff report and recommendation are of high political importance in as much as they promote a reinforcement of the European Union inside the United Nations.
That proposal, which has been supported by less than one third of the membership, has from the outset seemed divisive and unbalanced, as the President of the General Assembly has himself pointed out.
While I would stress that I very much welcome the political attention that the European Parliament is focusing on the overall strengthening of the European Union's profile in the United Nations, I consider that my reservation and objection to the part of the recommendation on the 'Overarching Process' should be minuted.
in writing. - (PT) The current proposal forms part of a package (along with the proposals for directives on interoperability and the European Railway Agency) that seeks 'the facilitation of the free movement of locomotives across the EU', as part of the liberalisation of railway transport in the EU.
Before any other considerations, we must therefore emphasise that this directive's main objective is to eliminate any obstacle to the liberalisation of railway transport by harmonising railway safety legislation in each country.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of Paolo Costa's report concerning the amendment of Directive 2004/49/EC on safety on the Community's railways.
in writing. - (PT) It is essential to harmonise national safety procedures in Member States.
Another very important point is the use of more rigorous training and certification measures for all interested and responsible parties in the Community railway market, from railway companies to infrastructure managers.
in writing. - I voted to exempt heritage railways from the scope of this directive.
Such railways as the Romney, Hythe and Dymchurch Railway and the Kent and East Sussex Light Railway (of which I am a life member) are part of the historic fabric of the tourist industry in the South East of England and across the EU.
in writing. - (PL) The creation of a common railway market for transport services requires changes to existing regulations.
in writing. - I supported all the amendments to the Committee on Transport and Tourism's report on the amendment of Regulation (EC) No 881/2004 establishing a European Railway Agency.
in writing. - (PT) The current proposal forms part of a package of measures (along with the proposals for directives on interoperability and safety) to liberalise railway transport in the EU, in which the 'agency' takes on the central role of 'regulator'.
In Portugal, as time has shown, implementation of this policy has led to a deterioration in public services, restricted mobility and increased fares.
It has resulted in the closure of hundreds of kilometres of railway track, the closure of stations, a reduction in the number of passengers and in service quality, a reduction in the number of workers employed in the railway sector and an attack on their pay and labour rights.
in writing. - (DE) I voted for Paolo Costa's report on the amendment of Regulation (EC) No 881/2004 establishing a European Railway Agency.
I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (FR) The issue of rail interoperability is critical to the development and the success of Europe's railways.
Although I voted in favour of the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, Paolo Costa, I am not any less aware of the limits of this compromise.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of Arūnas Degutis's report on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community.
Passengers are entitled to a full breakdown of the price of their air tickets.
The new instrument will make fares more transparent and comprehensible.
in writing. - (PL) I am in favour of the rapporteur's view concerning adoption of the Council common position without any amendments.
Workers in the air services sector will also experience greater social protection under the report's proposals.
in writing. - (PL) Statistics are widely used, not just by companies or institutions involved in the economy.
The need to modernise our statistics results also from the existence of different systems and different statistical practices in Member States, which often makes it difficult to compare data across the whole European Union.
I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (PL) I am in favour of this report.
The report's recommendations bolster consumer protection and I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (PL) Toxic substances contained in products used for cleaning, rinsing and disinfecting, as well as in paints and solvents, can pose a risk to human health by irritating respiratory pathways and eyes and by causing allergies.
The majority of these products can be harmful in use, causing various unpleasant symptoms.
Limiting the levels of MEE and BEE in various types of detergents or cleaning products is a very positive step and for this reason I believe that the European Union should make every effort and commitment to eliminate these unhealthy substances from our lives and from the environment.
in writing. - (PT) We voted against this report because it forms part of the gas market liberalisation package and expressly supports steps to complete the internal market as quickly as possible even though it does not, in general, approve the instruments and regulations proposed by the European Commission.
in writing. - Atanas Paparizov's report on conditions for access to the natural gas transmission networks will facilitate the integration of the EU internal gas market.
It is important for the EU to work towards an internal market in gas and I voted in support of the report.
in writing. - (PT) This report deserves a vote in favour from myself and all my colleagues who believed that the consistency of the third energy package depended on the effective and not merely cosmetic regulation of trade in natural gas.
In itself, this will allow a potential increase in competitiveness and competition in the sector.
in writing. - The position I have taken reflects my opinion regarding the importance of natural gas and its availability for consumers at the lowest possible price.
This will pass in the vicinity of Malta so that, in order for my country to benefit, it will have to either join the pipeline or, as has been proposed, there will have to be a pipeline from Sicily to Malta.
My country does not have a large domestic market and its consumption varies between 16 to 18 million units annually.
I drew the attention of the then Nationalist Government to the importance of having gas-powered stations some 15 years ago.
The proposal for a directive on the internal gas market forms part of the 'third energy package', which completes the privatisation of natural gas supply services.
The package has two key points: ownership unbundling between gas supply activities and gas transportation and storage activities, so that capital can effectively make use of that public infrastructure for the production, storage and transportation of gas that remains in the Member States.
in writing. - (PT) This measure unequivocally demonstrates our shared willingness to achieve the objective of liberalising the energy market.
Hence the concern to demand equal treatment for third countries that intend to invest in the European energy market.
Hence the concern to improve coordination between national energy sector regulators.
This measure will make the market competitive and is therefore in the interests of consumers, who will benefit from the new rules of a more healthy, free and transparent energy market.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the Lambert report because it is an answer to the citizens' needs.
We are living in a world of globalization where thousands of people are working in another country than their country of residence and we need a coordination of the social security systems for all people using their right to work in other states, in order to ensure and support mobility, which is a fundamental right in the European Union.
in writing. - (PL) The purpose of this document is to make EU rules as regards the coordination of social security systems in individual Member States better and more effective.
in writing. - (FR) I have two comments on the Lambert report and the regulation that it amends. 1.
In the European Union, one of the wealthiest parts of the world, 16% of the population were living below the poverty line in 2005.
in writing. - (FR) Today, I voted in favour of the Corbett report on the amendment of Rule 29 of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure regarding the formation of political groups, namely the requirement that a political group's members represent at least one quarter of Member States (instead of the current requirement of one fifth) and that the minimum number of members is 25 (instead of 20), and I did this for several reasons.
The thrust of this document is to increase the minimum number of MEPs required to create a political group from 21 to 30.
in writing. - The ALDE Group voted against a reform of Rule 29 for the following reasons: the existence of the current seven groups causes no real problems of efficiency; minority opinions have just as much right to be organised professionally as majority opinions; a decent European Parliament must reflect the wider diversity of political opinion that we find in the Union: we need not copy exactly national parliaments whose job is to supply a government; closing down smaller groups would either force reluctant deputies to join larger groups, adding to their incoherence, or inflate the ranks of the non-attached, adding to inefficiency; the size of the Parliament is in any event set to fall from 785 to 751 (Lisbon) or 736 (Nice).
in writing. - (PT) Our vote against this report and the respective commitment is coherent with our defence of pluralism, democracy and respect for different opinions.
Until now, a minimum of 20 MEPs from six Member States were allowed to form a political group.
The proposal that has now been agreed requires 25 MEPs from seven Member States to form a political group.
As far as we, the Portuguese Communist Party MEPs, are concerned, we have maintained, from the beginning, a coherent position against the creation of any additional barriers to forming political groups.
in writing. - Conservative MEPs have voted against both of Mr Corbett's proposed amendments to raise the threshold for the establishment of political groups in the European Parliament.
in writing. - I support Richard Corbett's report amending the Rules of Procedure regarding the formation of political groups.
Because of this attack on democracy and freedom of expression and on the equality of MEPs which is enshrined in the Treaty and in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, I naturally voted against this report.
This is a new undemocratic and authoritarian decision that further hinders the establishment of political groups.
The Nea Demokratia and PASOK MEPs and the Synaspismos MEP have voted in favour of this despicable amendment and the decision in its entirety, proving that, on key issues, the forces of the European one-way street are on a common course.
We, the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece, have voted against the increase in the number to 25 and against the report in its entirety, thus denouncing undemocratic machinations and political games.
in writing. - (PT) To make excessive restrictions and create barriers to the formation of political groups can never be a good thing for any parliament.
Following the elections in June 2009 political groups in the European Parliament will have to consist of at least 25 Members representing a minimum of 7 Member States.
I would like to give my full support to this increase in the threshold for the creation of political groups in the European Parliament, as this will help to avoid excessive parliamentary divisions and will make its work more effective.
However, to strengthen democracy, small political groups need to be protected against temporary reductions in the number of members, if they fall below the required threshold.
in writing. - (SV) We voted for the report, since better cooperation and more openness between national courts/judges and the EC Court of Justice is of the utmost importance for the working of the European legal system.
However, we consider that the discussion in paragraphs 26 and 27 regarding the jurisdiction of the EC Court of Justice in certain areas is a Treaty matter on which the European Parliament has already stated its opinion.
in writing. - (PT) We voted against this report because of the unacceptable pressure it will put on Member States, including our national judges, who are the cornerstone of the judicial system in any sovereign country.
Indeed, this report, a veritable pamphlet in favour of Community law, seeks to involve national judges more actively in and accord them greater responsibility for the implementation of Community law.
in writing. - I will be voting in favour of this report, not because I enjoy WTO disputes or have a paranoia about the United States, but because I am fed up with the protectionist actions of the United States over many years, particularly in the area of civil aviation.
Do as I say.' in writing. - (SV) We Swedish social Democrats voted in favour of Mr Buzek's report on the European Strategic Energy Technology Plan.
We also take a positive view of research into and the development of new sources of energy with low or zero CO2 emissions.
in writing. - I am voting against the second part of Paragraph 26 because I do not support Nuclear being one of the priority initiatives.
I also agree with the point made by the rapporteur concerning insufficient resources allocated to new power generation technologies in the current financial framework of the European Union.
in writing. - (DE) As we know to our cost, the EU's aim of rapidly increasing the percentage use of biofuel has had adverse repercussions.
The alarming upward trend in the price of oil makes it more important than ever to promote the production and use of energy from renewable sources.
in writing. - (DE) I voted for Reinhard Rack's report on a new culture of urban mobility.
in writing. - (PL) The most important matter raised by the rapporteur is that of delineating the areas in which the European Union should participate in issues relating to urban mobility.
The rapporteur is right to point out that there are similar problems throughout the European Union in the area of urban mobility, but it is not possible to develop a uniform method to deal with these problems.
in writing. - (DE) I voted against this report, because the EU is not responsible for these matters.
However, we would point out, with reference to the passage in the explanatory statement which speaks of the need for Sweden to introduce the euro, that we respect the outcome of the Swedish referendum in 2003 in which it was decided that Sweden would retain the krona as its currency.
in writing. - (PT) We voted against this report because it reaffirms support for the work of the European Central Bank, makes no criticism of successive increases in the base rate, even though this has already reached 4.25%, much higher than the United States Federal Reserve base rate.
in writing. - (FR) The Schmidt report is the annual pat on the back given by Parliament to the European Central Bank for its benevolence.
in writing. - I welcome Olle Schmidt's report on the ECB annual report.
I voted in support of the rapporteur's evaluation.
