I am delighted to bid a very warm welcome today, here in the European Parliament, to the winner of the Sakharov Prize for 2007, Salih Mahmoud Osman. (Applause) It also gives me great pleasure to extend my warmest greetings to his wife, Salwa Ahmed Faragalla Ali, who has always stood by his side at difficult times in his life.
We welcome you among us. (Applause) The decision to award the 2007 Sakharov Prize to Salih Mahmoud Osman was taken unanimously by the Conference of Presidents, which comprises the chairs of the political groups, on the basis of a proposal adopted by a large number of Members of the European Parliament from various groups.
The conflict that has plagued Darfur since 2003 is exacerbating the plight of a country devastated by more than twenty years of civil war.
The conflict has claimed at least 400 000 lives and has been responsible for more than two and a half million displaced persons and refugees, notwithstanding the signing of the peace agreement in Darfur in 2006.
Just like the European Parliament, the winner of the 2007 Sakharov Prize does not simply accept this unjust situation but protests against the impunity of those who caused it.
For years Salih Mahmoud Osman has been defending the rights of victims of the conflict in Darfur.
In the name of human dignity, Salih Osman reassures those destitute, defenceless and intimidated men and women who have sunk into oblivion that the world is aware of their suffering, that they have not been forgotten and that they have reason to hope for a return to a perfectly normal and simply human life.
Since 2004, Salih Osman has been committing himself to the establishment and administration of the Amal Centre in Nyala, amal being Arabic for 'hope', for the rehabilitation of victims of violence and sexual abuse.
Nelson Mandela was awarded the Sakharov Prize in 1988, Salima Ghezali in 1997, Dom Zacarias Kamwenho in 2001 and Hauwa Ibrahim in 2005.
I am a native of Darfur, born in Jebel Marra, which is a mountainous region located in the centre of Darfur State.
For many years, in my work, I have represented thousands of people who needed my help in front of the Courts.
I have seen thousands of people who have been tortured; I have seen hundreds of women and young girls who have been victims of sexual abuse; I have seen the four million who have been forcibly displaced from their homes and those two and a half million who are confined, as we speak now, in the camps around the cities of Darfur: Nyala, Al Fashir, Zalingi and Al Geneina.
Your leaders have been talking tough about the policies of the Sudanese Government in Darfur.
The people of Darfur ask you to protect them from the violence, killings and abuse they are forced to face on a daily basis.
But Europe has a role to play in putting more pressure on the Government of Sudan to facilitate the deployment of these troops and the protection of the people of Darfur.
That would help the situation in Darfur.
The people of Darfur ask you to support the work of the ICC.
In conclusion, I am proud to accept this honour on behalf of the other candidates to this prize: the Russian journalist assassinated last year, Anna Politkovskaya; the Chinese dissidents, Zeng Jinyan and Hu Jia; and the Afghani MP and women's rights activist, Joya Malalai, and also on behalf of so many Sudanese who believe - as I do - in human dignity and the pursuit of justice.
