Protection of soil - Thematic Strategy for Soil Protection (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Cristina Gutiérrez-Cortines on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for the protection of soil and amending Directive 2004/35/EC - C6-0307/2006 -, and the report by Vittorio Prodi on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on the Thematic Strategy for Soil Protection. (DE) Madam President, I would not have asked for the floor again had not the Commissioner tried to play the victim in his closing remarks.
The debate is closed.
The Commission's proposal for a thematic strategy for soil protection arises from work begun in 1998 on the initiative of the German Ministry of the Environment.
We must also bear in mind that there is a direct relationship between climate change and soil.
The aim of the strategy and the directive is to launch a long-term policy on soil protection in Europe, so that in a few years, time all the Member States will have made considerable progress in this area.
This applies especially to the amendments concerning programmes of measures in the priority areas specified in the directive.
To conclude, let me state that from now on the Commission will follow developments during the discussion of its proposal in the Council and in the European Parliament.
rapporteur. - (ES) Madam President, before discussing the proposal that is going to be voted on this morning, I would like to thank the rapporteurs from all the political groups, and I would especially like to thank Mrs Sornosa, from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, and our friend Mr Prodi, who have really worked side by side and have enriched the directive, as have the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and many other Members.
Articles 1 and 2 have been strengthened right up to Article 6 in order to make the common objectives clear.
This policy of flexibility also applies to recognising that, given the climate and conditions in each country, each one needs to be allowed to come to an agreement with its citizens in order to implement these policies.
We must take into account that the Europe of the future must be built by its citizens, and therefore, I repeat, we must set common objectives, but help them to take the path that will also ensure health and a commitment to transparency.
rapporteur. - (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you and extend my thanks again to the rapporteur Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines.
The directive under discussion today is aimed at protecting European soil from phenomena such as desertification, erosion and salinisation, increasingly linked with climate change and specific soil pollution.
However, there is another argument for a Community-based approach towards soil protection, which is climate change, a challenge facing all of Europe.
The soil is a resource, a resource that is scarce in Europe, and we must maximise its availability.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (ES) Thank you, Madam President, and thank you also to Commissioner Dimas for his decisive support for this directive.
According to the reports that have been discussed here, it has been calculated that the cost of soil degradation is approximately EUR 40 000 million per year, a cost that is borne by society in the form of damage to infrastructure, increases in the cost of healthcare and many other factors.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Soil Protection Directive and the Soil Framework Directive, together with the Thematic Strategy for Soil Protection, rank among the key topics in this part-session, as of course they have done in recent weeks and months in the committees.
Normally a strategy - in this case about soil - is dealt with before the relevant directive, for good reason.
In contrast to the normal nature of a framework directive, the Commission proposal - and I share this opinion - includes very rigid, detailed regulations, and commits the Member States to numerous examinations and reports that would result in a considerable administrative load.
The new Member States already have national soil protection legislation that functions well.
Let there be no mistake: our soils are the basis of our existence.
Soil deterioration costs the EU more than EUR 38 billion every year.
In Germany, only 2% of the soil is still in its natural condition.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a very important and positive directive.
We had a long and difficult discussion in the Committee, and I would like to thank Cristina Gutiérrez-Cortines for being so passionate about the subject.
However, there is the risk that Parliament will interfere with the Commission's text.
Someone has even recommended that the directive should be rejected, but this would be a serious mistake.
Also, the EU forest grants over the years have resulted in unsuitable spruce plantations that, in growth, have made the soil more acidic and, in harvesting, have in some cases compacted the soil, rendering it infertile, whilst in others have loosened it from the hills, from which it has been washed into rivers and lakes.
The EU should ban soil destruction but leave its care and management to the people who understand its composition in each area. (SK) Before looking at the actual wording of the proposed framework directive on soil protection, we should consider whether EU legislation in this area is actually needed.
On the other hand, it is important to recognise that the degradation of soil, as a non-renewable resource, has significant consequences on other aspects, for which legislation already exists, such as water quality, food safety, climate change, etc.
I believe that for areas where soil degradation needs to be stopped urgently we must use urgent terminology; soil at risk must be indicated with a negative term to underscore the seriousness of the situation. (CS) Madam President, Commissioner, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work on the proposal in question.
The Member States can protect their soil on their own.
I do not believe that the 'support for agriculture, no matter what' formula is sufficient to protect soils at regional, national, or even European level. - (PL) Madam President, a framework directive on soil protection will in my view be an instrument that promotes the production of foodstuffs and adequate supplies of clean water for subsequent generations of EU citizens.
The soil also performs many other important functions: it is a substrate for human activities, along with towns and infrastructure, and also for nature and valuable landscapes.
In view of this situation, a flexible framework directive recognising the principle of subsidiarity will be an instrument that encourages Member States to protect their soils.
This is important information for the protection of the life and health of EU citizens. (FR) Madam President, I would also first like to congratulate our rapporteurs and applaud the difficult job Mrs Gutiérrez has accomplished in producing a result to protect our soil.
I also think it is a pity that our fellow Members whose countries have stricter regulation than that proposed here are still trying to water down this report with amendments that I would urge you very strongly to reject tomorrow.
Sustainable management of soil use already comes to the fore in 33 European directives, such as the Water Framework Directive.
In my opinion, Member States who have yet to develop a soil policy must do so on the basis of the strategy.
But, if, true to form, the EU nonetheless decides to meddle in this national issue, then one initiative it could consider is to introduce a payment to farmers in return for providing carbon sequestration in soil management and farming practices. (FR) Madam President, my first thought on this proposal for a directive was to reject the text.
Mrs Gutiérrez has done a remarkable job in trying to find an acceptable approach, in trying to bring closer together those who did not want this directive and those who did.
The final text has evolved a great deal.
There is such soil diversity in the European Union that the subsidiarity guarantee is essential, while ensuring the protection and sustainable use of the soil. (HU) It is our fundamental goal to guarantee a healthy environment for our citizens, and there is stringent Union legislation for most elements of our environment.
Madam President, this proposal for a directive on soil protection has huge credibility gaps.
Burying vast acreages under solid concrete is not my idea of the best way to protect soil. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, I support the soil strategy elaborated in the Prodi report, but oppose the Directive on soil.
As has been said, there are already more than 30 directives concerning soil quality, either directly or indirectly.
Many Member States already have a good national policy for solving and preventing soil problems.
Madam President, I came to this debate from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, where we rejected the proposal for a directive.
All of us want our soils protected, but I think those of us who are concerned about this directive believe that it is not necessary to do it in this way.
The difficulty that I see in terms of soil protection is that we are not doing enough research on how to protect soils and that a great many researchers and advisers in the agricultural area are involved in form filling - forms that are created here in the European Union and which take them from their jobs of being involved with farmers in best practice in terms of soil protection.
In my homeland of Hungary, the picture is typically two-fold: on the one hand, there is land of excellent quality and a high degree of legislative protection but, on the other hand, there is industrial pollution caused by forty years of Communism, and cleaning it up will take at least another forty years and EUR 4 billion.
Thank you very much. (NL) Mr President, Secretary, I should like to start by expressing my sincere congratulations to our rapporteur, Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines, and by thanking her for her enormous efforts to strike a balance between supporters and opponents of this Directive, in what is after all a very difficult dossier.
For example, a system of compulsory soil certificates in the case of property transfers - even now inconceivable in many Member States - has been in place for a long time.
This flexible Directive not only provides a framework for those Member States that do not yet have a soil policy but is also clearly capable of preventing the undermining of the competitive position of the countries and regions that are already making an effort.
There is certainly a cross-border impact in a great many places: for example, erosion in Flanders could generate sludge in the Netherlands and vice versa.
The Directive also provides a coherent framework for existing legislation on soil protection.
Mr President, may I first of all congratulate Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines.
I think Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines has done an absolutely fantastic job and I will support her totally if this House decides not to reject it, but I shall briefly mention something that Mrs Scheele and Mrs Corbey said on erosion.
Erosion is a big problem, but not necessarily in the European Union.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the speakers in this debate for their positive contributions and I would like to outline the Commission's view on a number of key issues raised by Parliament.
Let me state that the Commission will follow the development of its proposal in the Council and in Parliament and consider its position under the light of these developments.
I will start with those aspects of the thematic strategy which appear in the report of the Committee on the Environment and which are not covered in the directive.
I welcome the support given in the report to tackling soil protection at a European level and the crucial links between soil protection and any strategy to combat climate change, biodiversity loss and desertification.
The Commission will take these recommendations into account when developing further measures implementing the thematic strategy.
I am referring in particular to a better clarification of the objective of the legislation and the role played by soil functions in ensuring sustainable use of soil in Article 1, pursuant to Amendment 36.
In addition, elements such as the introduction of voluntary codes of good practice or of a non-binding annex on possible measures to combat soil degradation can be supported in Articles 4 and 8, pursuant in part to Amendments 58 and 65.
The Commission also considers the clarification introduced in the provision dealing with the identification of contaminated sites in Article 10, pursuant to Amendment 74, as an improvement to the text.
Firstly, Amendment 38 on Article 1, to make the soil framework directive subsidiary to other European Union legislation so that soil protection provisions contained in other Community legislation would take precedence over the provisions of this directive.
Thirdly, some amendments, such as Amendment 77 concerning Article 12, eliminate the provisions concerning the information on soil contamination to be provided for certain land transactions.
The soil status report is a very important part of the Commission's proposal.
I would like to emphasise the importance of keeping a common list of activities in Annex 2.
Many Member States and regions already use a very similar list to carry out their investigations.
It is very important to have a common list to ensure harmonised implementation and to avoid a distortion of the internal market for the different sectors.
As I have already mentioned, I can assure you that the Commission will follow the development of its proposal in the Council and Parliament and consider its position in this light.
Commission's position on amendments by Parliament Gutiérrez-Cortines report The Commission will follow the development of its proposal in the Council and in the Parliament and consider its position in the light of this development.
The Commission's current position on the proposed amendments is that there are 50 amendments which the Commission can accept fully, in part, or in principle.
These are amendments: 1, 7, 12, 13, 15, 20, 22, 30, 36, 41, 42, 45, 47, 49, 53, 55, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 69, 73, 74, 79, 80, 83, 86, 89, 90, 92, 96, 98, 99, 103, 104, 108, 115, 117, 137, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148 and 150.
It cannot accept 111 amendments: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 43, 44, 46, 48, 50, 51, 52, 54, 56, 57, 60, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71, 72, 75, 76, 77, 78, 81, 82, 84, 85, 87, 88, 91, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 100, 101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 116, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 138, 139, 140, 141, 149, 151.
Despite the extensive improvements made by the rapporteur, I reject this proposal, because it infringes the principle of subsidiarity.
