Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 14 March 2002.
Ladies and gentlemen, a tragic incident took place in the town of Nanterre in France on the night of Tuesday 26 March.
Elsewhere, Juán Priede Pérez, the only Socialist councillor in the village of Orio in the Basque country, was murdered by two terrorists on 21 March.
In murdering Juán Priede Pérez, the terrorists demonstrated yet again that they deny not only the right to life but, in this case, the right to life of a man who had dedicated himself to the welfare of his fellow citizens.
They even deny the right to attend local political events and the right to exercise democratic rights.
Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to join me in a minute's silence for these two incidents. (?he House rose and observed a minute's silence) Mr President, I know that a resolution is going to be adopted on the problem of Israel and Palestine during this sitting, but I believe we cannot start it without remembering that there have been 200 murders in Palestinian territory and that the Palestinian people are being humiliated by the army of a State.
I therefore believe that we need this sitting to begin also... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr Nogueira Román, may I ask you to repeat your comment when we get to the debate on the Middle East.
Thank you, Mr Murphy.
The draft agenda, as finalised by the Conference of Presidents of the political groups at its meeting on 4 April, has been distributed in accordance with Rule 110.
Mr President, the postponement of the debate is proposed specifically in relation to the Morgan report referring to the other institutions.
We have therefore requested this postponement which, furthermore, will help to make tomorrow's voting time shorter.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group supports the proposal to timetable Mr Solana's statement for 5 p.m.
That will probably not be that straightforward in procedural terms, but the groups here should in any case be able to comment verbally on what comes out of Madrid.
I therefore believe it would be politically timely for a resolution to arrive at the Madrid Summit alive and kicking, which is perfectly feasible.
Our view on the question of the vote is that we are in a very fast-moving situation.
Mr Watson, may I assure you that your comments on the matter of Question Time to the Commission have been noted.
But the main thing is that our position is unambiguous and is independent of the compromise reached and statements issued in Madrid.
Mr Puerta, may I assure you that there is no intention of losing Question Time to the Commission.
We do not want to be sent written answers drafted by civil servants, but to be able to ask supplementary questions, as is the custom in parliaments.
Mr Posselt, as I explained earlier, we are in a very difficult situation in this particular instance.
We shall now proceed with two votes: The first is on whether we agree to hold the debate on the Middle East on Tuesday, as stated earlier. (Parliament gave its assent) The second vote is on whether to hold the vote on the motions in question on Wednesday or Thursday. (Parliament voted in favour of Wednesday) Mr President, I would like you to clarify an earlier point.
We should not underestimate the seriousness of the threats to these journalists on The Daily News.
Mr President, you mentioned that one person had been killed in the Basque country but, in fact, last week another person was killed by the Guardia Civil.
His name was Joseba Andoni Urdaniz.
Mr Helmer obliges me to make a remark that I actually did not believe I would ever have to make.
Nicole Fontaine deserves many things, but to associate her with Marxism or socialism is false.
They travelled to the region on 13 March to meet, by appointment, the board of management of the South Bolivar Agri-Mining Federation.
The UN office in Bogotá, which is co-financed by the EU, has on about 100 occasions issued recommendations to dismantle these paramilitaries.
The UN and Amnesty International have both confirmed that paramilitaries are involved in about 75-80% of human rights violations in Colombia.
Mr President, I understood your office had been notified of my intention to raise the matter regarding the Irish person, Gealóid Ó Loinsigh, who is on the run at the moment from right-wing paramilitaries.
It is not acceptable that the citizens of Colombia and others who go there to assist in human rights investigations are either assassinated or work under the threat of assassination.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, sport in general, and football in particular, occupy a very special position in society, both in defining behaviour and in the collective imagination.
Furthermore, no Member State totally escapes the risk of disturbances, even if some international matches are more sensitive than others and the supporters of some clubs or national teams are seemingly easier to control than others.
It is precisely in order to more effectively prevent and control the risk of disturbances during international competitions that the Kingdom of Belgium took the initiative to put forward a proposal for a Council decision on which we are due to vote tomorrow.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft decision is based on three observations.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the draft decision proposes that each Member State formally establishes or designates a police-run national football information centre to act as a single, central and direct point of contact between the authorities and the police force of the Member States responsible for ensuring security at international football matches or competition with an international dimension.
The various national information points that are established or designated must therefore function as information exchange networks providing data of a general nature - such as the number of supporters travelling, high-risk groups, the presence of hard core groups - and personal data, in other words, supporters posing risks to law and order and security.
Then I would like to intervene personally in this debate.
If the European network of national football information centres is to be effective, then we need to address the current weaknesses in the system of information exchange and ad hoc contacts.
On Friday, I visited the football intelligence unit in the Greater Manchester police service.
Let me tell you where the unit believes the EU information exchange system has to do better: 150 fans were deported from Charleroi in June 2000.
The proposal and report are sound, and the initiative is excellent in my view.
This being the case, we cannot create a European area of freedom, security and justice unless we first create a network of information points and reinforce police and judicial cooperation between the 15 Member States in order to suppress violence at football matches.
Finally, I should like to point out that the 2004 Olympic Games in Athens will be a important opportunity to revive the Olympic spirit and the ideals of the Olympic truce and peace, as an alternative political proposal to the mindset and culture of violence.
We wholeheartedly support initiatives that are aimed at increasing cooperation between authorities in different Member States.
We have a long footballing pedigree and indeed the first international football match ever played was the game between Scotland and England in 1872.
It is for this reason that I and my EFA colleagues have tabled three amendments to the Council text.
Do not speak about the national team, but about national teams.
I too should like to bring one amendment to your attention which has already been touched upon by my fellow MEP, because I hope that you are still prepared to endorse it.
Belgium's initiative is based on a detailed assessment of the European Football Championships of 2000, which has been supported and financed by the Commission's OISIN programme and in which the Commission participated.
The main objective of the initiative is to enable Member States to exchange information on groups of football team supporters and on their trips to other countries, and even to be able to exchange information on whether these groups should be classified as peaceful or violent.
The innovative aspect of this decision is that, in addition to enabling the existing exchange of information to continue, it is legally binding, which means that it is a step towards increasing legal security in the processing of this information.
Thank you, Commissioner Vitorino.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
I want to say a word or two about this report, because some people have commented that it is unnecessary to have a system of contact points in Europe to deal with these matters, that there is already plenty of cooperation at police level, for instance, and justice ministry level.
The cooperation between national governments and national police enforcement authorities, for instance, is absolutely critical in bringing to book some of the rather more unpleasant people who we need to deal with, owing to the international and horrendous nature of their crimes.
One of the possibilities is, as my report suggests, to have contact points which are readily identifiable in the different nation states.
Indeed, an amendment which we have tabled to the report makes it clear that we believe that we should not leave this as a vague proposition to be determined at some point in the future, but that it should be clearly the case that the contact points should be based in the police or justice departments of the Member States.
I do not agree with everything that happens on a European basis, but here we have a situation where there is a clear need for cooperation at a level at which we are consistent in our approach.
This report underlines this need and, above all else, it shows the determination of all of us in the different states of Europe to get together to deal with the more unpleasant people who sadly still exist on this globe.
An initiative of this kind towards European cooperation in more effective prosecution of crime deserves support, especially when the crimes in question are as detestable as genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
Whatever the rapporteur may think, such an agreement does indeed exist between all the Member States; it is the one that was adopted by the Council of Europe on 20 April 1959.
Over and above that, there is a new judicial assistance agreement dated May 2000, which is adapted to more modern circumstances but has not yet been ratified by all the Member States.
The creation of networks or contact points in each Member State for war crimes is extremely important.
It is important that there is contact with the police and judicial authorities in order to facilitate cooperation in the Member States in relation to war crimes.
There are cases where people who have committed crimes against humanity have more or less escaped unpunished - for example the Pinochet case - and there are other cases where a blind eye is turned to war crimes and to major international human rights abuses until the occasion arises when it is politically correct to challenge them.
It is important that this report is not aimed at establishing a central coordination department.
The initiative also highlights one of the important problems, data protection, which can develop with the transfer of data and information.
We also must never forget that data protection is an extremely important issue and it must not be left out of any of these debates.
This proposal does not affect the existing legal mechanisms for judicial assistance, but represents an important additional measure in that it enables the Member States of the European Union to fulfil their obligations as laid down in the Statute of the International Criminal Court established in Rome by Convention in 1998 and which is ready to enter into force as soon as the necessary number of Member States ratifies it.
Cooperation in this field between the States of the European Union, on preventing this type of crime, has already been subject to a common position, issued by the Council on 11 June 2001.
Thank you, Commissioner Vitorino.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
We often criticise the Commission - and rightly so - but today it is only fair to congratulate it on the initiative that it has presented and which provides a positive response to the recommendations made by the European Parliament when it approved the Kessler report to bring together the five programmes covered by Title VI in a single framework programme.
As we all know, under the terms of Article 29 of the EU Treaty, the Union is obliged to pursue the objective of providing its citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice by initiating actions in conjunction with the Member States in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters too.
The proposal we are debating here today establishes a single framework programme that is intended to bring together and provide a harmonised legislative and operational framework for all the actions that fall under Title VI of the EU Treaty, reflecting developments in Community programmes in general and the experiences of five years' work on the ground.
Consequently, we have, in our opinion, managed to ensure that the actions we have supported are more consistent and have an even greater impact, to make possible a more effective use of financial resources, to prevent potential overlaps between the various programmes and to fill in existing gaps.
Hence the proposal that this framework programme should operate in the period 2003 to 2006, following which it must be renewed in accordance with the new financial perspective.
It is gratifying that the candidate countries too are to be given the opportunity to participate in those projects that are financed under the programme, but it must be clear that, as a budgetary authority, Parliament cannot accept a situation in which the financial estimates are exceeded.
What is at issue here is a programme on the basis of Title VI of the Treaty on European Union.
Where the funding is concerned, it may be pointed out that EUR 65 million is not to be sneezed at, and it is one more item in the long list of programmes interfering with the EU's administrative procedure.
I must emphasise that the aim of this proposal for a framework programme is to rationalise and simplify the implementation of the programmes of police and judicial cooperation between Member States in criminal matters, thereby complying with the specific request made by the European Parliament in the Kessler report.
The programme covers all the fields that are and that must be subject to European action, which demonstrates the commitment of the public authorities and of the beneficiaries of the projects, with whom we are in close contact, and also reflects the results of the external evaluation carried out two years ago on, of course, the development of the programmes that preceded the evaluation.
With this in mind, the basic legal provision was voluntarily confined to laying down the broad guidelines, because the Commission felt that the task of defining priorities more precisely must be left up to the annual programmes, year by year, in line with developments in the political situation and the actual requirements of the situation as regards crime.
The Commission takes the view that in the framework programme, objectives must be defined in general terms, leaving it up to each annual programme to define its priorities.
The framework programme also highlights the concept of partnership.
Instead, we propose that the presentation of the annual report be brought forward to June 2004 so that the European Parliament can be informed as quickly as possible on the first results of the implementation of the programme to have already produced effects that are likely to be assessed.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In the meantime, however, the Commission expressed a general reservation about the framework decision, to the effect that environmental protection is covered by a large number of Community acts, most of which make provisions for administrative penalties, and that the issue should therefore be dealt with by means of a first-pillar instrument.
I would point out that Parliament agrees with the Commission on this point: in the sitting of 15 November 2001, with a procedure without debate, we adopted a recommendation on criminal penalties and Community acts, point 6 of which, to be precise, called upon the Council not to undertake any action concerning criminal law in the field of the environment before the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law had been adopted.
We therefore need to agree on the complementary nature of these two instruments and adopt them both in their current forms.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Environmental Crime Directive will provide a new European legal instrument which is to contribute towards a more effective enforcement of the European environmental laws transposed and implemented in the Member States.
This clause is included in title VI.
In other words, criminal law does not exclusively fall within the remit of the European Union.
I did not alter Article 1 of the directive, which aims to lay down minimum standards for punishable offences.
We can only invite the Member States to introduce measures such as confiscation if this element is specifically provided for in the Member States' own legal systems.
We have worked in unity and, even if the contribution now appears very technical, it is founded on extensive policy, which is not only important to the Commission, but certainly also to the European Parliament.
Mr President, in thirty years there has been a huge increase in the number of standards relating to the environment, with more than fifty times the number of national agreements, protocols and similar instruments in this area.
We have, on the one hand, an initiative presented by Denmark in 2000 with a view to adopting a Council framework decision on combating serious crimes against the environment, which proposes that Member States adopt joint measures to protect the environment under criminal law, including effective investigations and prosecutions, and effective cooperation in police, criminal and administrative matters, in other words to establish an acquis in the field of criminal sanctions against environmental crimes.
Quite clearly, some of these rights - such as the right to a high level of environmental protection and the improvement of the quality of the environment, which is enshrined in Article 37 of the Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights, are not being adequately safeguarded by the Member States for lack of effective Community intervention.
None of the Member States has ratified the 1998 Council of Europe Convention on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
The Commission's proposal for a directive requiring the Member States to introduce penalties therefore deserves our full support with the incorporation of the useful amendments advocated in the Oomen-Ruijten report.
The Di Lello Finuoli report quite rightly states that this framework decision must be consistent with the directive, must wait for it to be promulgated and must refer to it, without repeating points already covered by the directive but, where necessary, incorporating them.
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party also welcomes this proposal for a Commission directive, in the same way as it welcomed, equally favourably, the draft framework decision by the Council in December 2001.
These two initiatives are a practical response to one of the people's major concerns: 88% of European citizens want the European Union to take practical measures to protect the environment.
As for the more specific content of this proposal, I believe, as most of my colleagues do, that incitement, as well as the act itself to breach European environmental legislation, must be punished.
Similarly, we should use general terms when referring to breaches of the law, in order to avoid ecological crimes from being swallowed up in a potential legal loophole.
At the same time, it is worrying to note that in the same Member States, criminal cases involving the environment represent only 2% of the total number of all litigation.
Mr President, criminal law concerning environmental offences is still a bit of a mockery in the Member States.
For these reasons, I am endorsing an international approach to environmental crime.
The question remains whether we need a framework Council decision for this.
Mr President, the Commission is today proposing a directive which requires the Member States to provide for criminal sanctions to punish a number of particularly serious breaches of Community environmental law.
This Article provides for several joint actions to protect the environment, but it fully respects, in accordance with the general spirit of the Treaties, the autonomy of the Member States in the area of criminal law.
The Danish Presidency presented a draft framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law, which proposed enforcing stricter penalties whilst also respecting the freedom of the Member States to establish their legal basis on the third pillar, which is on the purely intergovernmental part of the Treaty.
Some Member States have indeed so far neglected to adequately back up Community regulations on environmental protection with the threat of sanctions.
As a member of the Committee on Petitions, I would like to add that such cases are increasingly brought to light as a result of petitions being submitted.
Environmental offences still appear to be regarded as excusable peccadilloes in some Member States.
For my part, I support the point of view that this matter falls squarely within the Union's areas of competence under the first pillar and therefore requires the adoption of a framework directive endorsed by the House.
It is worth reminding the Council that, had it finalised its draft framework decision under the third pillar, this would have certainly have been against the political will of the European Parliament.
Therefore, to mention the concept of incitement - which does not exist in all the Member States' legislation - is to seek to bring the national provisions closer together, which, in my view, considerably weakens the legal validity of this text.
We believe that this text sends out a strong political signal in respect of a crime that our fellow citizens regard in an increasingly poor light.
Mr President, following the events of 11 September there was a real international will to streamline and improve systems of extradition in connection with terrorist crime.
I am particularly worried about the amendments which talk about extradition or about the surrender or confiscation of profits as first pillar powers.
The advice of Parliament's legal services is that there is no legal base under Article 175 for this measure.
I am keen to see Member States cooperating to adopt measures under the third pillar to combat environmental crime, for example in common definitions of criminal offences; but the British Conservatives will vote for rejection of this report as amended because it has no legal base.
The European Union would be better advised to divert its energies to an area where it does have legal powers to bring errant Member States before the European Court of Justice for non-compliance with existing directives, as Mr von Boetticher suggested earlier.
By this modus operandi, we are using the right instruments in pursuit of an important Community objective.
The extraordinary European Council meeting in Tampere in 1999 agreed in that common definitions, common incriminations and common sanctions should be established in a limited number of sectors of particular importance, and among those sectors it highlighted the environmental crime issue.
As the House will recall - and several Members referred to it - in 2000, Denmark presented an initiative for a framework decision on combating serious environmental crime.
In 2001 the Commission adopted a proposal for a directive on the same subject, which is based on Article 175 of the European Community Treaty.
Both proposals pursue the same objective.
They seek to improve the implementation of Community environmental law and have the same starting point: we all recognise that there is a lack of effectiveness in the protection of the environment in our Member States.
However, to the extent that this is necessary for the achievement of Community objectives, the Commission is convinced that the Community can oblige Member States to provide for criminal sanctions where criminal law guarantees that Community law is enforced effectively.
The key aim of our proposal is to create an additional guarantee of impartiality and to give authorities greater scope for cross-border investigations of environmental crimes.
I would like to inform you that the Commission has never called into question the fact that matters of judicial cooperation belong to the third pillar.
The draft framework decision is therefore to be seen as a complementary text to the directive.
We respect subsidiarity because the framework decision put forward by Denmark very closely follows the Council of Europe Convention concerning environmental crime.
On behalf of the Commission, I therefore welcome the opinion on the draft framework decision by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
As far as the specific amendments to the proposal for a directive are concerned, I am glad to inform you that the Commission can accept all the amendments suggested with the following exceptions: Amendments Nos 8 and 9, 10, 11 and 13, 19, 20 and 27, 21, 24, 25, 28 and 29.
The debate is closed.
In addition, ARGO cannot simply be a case of collaboration by national bureaucracies.
After all, we also have powers in the field of the budget.
In most cases, we only talk about those who are persecuted by their own governments for their political beliefs.
They can simply stay in Turkey or Russia.
rapporteur. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dismantling of our internal borders and the police cooperation associated with it, as well as the securing of our external border, will be among the greatest challenges to face the European Union in the new century.
Where the internal borders have already been dismantled, the national police are able, after consultation with the police of a neighbouring state, to observe suspects who are active on both sides of the border.
It is no doubt impossible to get our European citizens to understand why foreign police officers may observe, but are unable to intervene when the situation becomes critical and a crime is being committed.
Within the framework of the Convention, which, as is well known, is looking to reshape the Treaties, we will not only be able to discuss what competences we might have to relocate in the Member States, but we must also specify the areas in which we additionally need primary competences at a European level.
I would like to point out that, in the fields fully or partially covered by this programme, there are very many directives, regulations and other instruments in force, and that this Community acquis must be applied consistently, guaranteeing equal rights to third-country nationals.
I agree with the approach of the rapporteur, Mr Oostlander, and I congratulate him, because his report contains proposals which improve the text and make it very clear that the Commission and Parliament must play a leading role in the implementation of the programme.
Mr President, much has been achieved in this field under Commissioner Vitorino, but there is still a very long way to go.
In recent years there have been 468 petitions alone on the subject of inequality of treatment in this area.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what these reports and this action programme show is that the EU is on the right road, the road towards being a union of security, and is demonstrating that security begins at the border.
So, there are many countries which are divided by forces of one faction or another, some State and some non-State.
Many applicant countries are doing very well and their economies and standards of living are approaching those of EU countries.
If we have a very successful European Union, we must not allow that to create a further division between us and the countries which will then be outside a new, enlarged Union of 25 or 27 States.
The Member States have often acted short-sightedly and without proper consideration, with catastrophic human suffering as a consequence.
As Mr Evans pointed out, experience in recent years has shown that this is so.
The ARGO programme is meant to ensure the establishment of the same level of fortification on the EU's new eastern border prior to removal of controls on the newly-created internal borders in accordance with the Schengen Agreement.
Mr President, a few comments on the Oostlander report.
The situation cannot go on in which asylum seekers are turned back at the EU's external borders by the relevant border authorities, as they have been hitherto.
Mr President, cross-border surveillance is a strictly regulated procedure, which enables the police officers of one Member State who are keeping a suspect under surveillance, to continue their work, if necessary, by crossing a border into another Member State, having made a request to the latter for assistance.
By tabling other proposals for amendments such as that seeking to extend the right of surveillance to some private locations or to allow police officers, in some cases, to bypass surveillance and arrest suspects, the committee responsible appears to be giving the impression that it wants to transform cross-border surveillance into the beginnings of a right to multilateral intervention within the framework of a Union that has no internal borders.
The first proposal before us today is a proposal for a financing programme that aims to promote cooperation between the national administrations responsible for implementing Community rules under Articles 62 and 63 of the Treaty.
The ARGO programme will supplement the legislative initiatives that have already been launched or are due to be launched on the basis of Articles 62 and 63 of the Treaty.
However, we must also acknowledge that in areas such as these, European legislation and its transposal into national law are not enough to harmonise practices.
As several of you pointed out, the ARGO programme will replace the Odysseus programme.
That is why it focuses in greatest detail on the national administrations and the services responsible for implementing Community legislation based on Articles 62 and 63 of the Treaty.
It is wrong to claim that these are simply programmes for cooperation between police forces because, in the area of asylum and immigration, there are extremely important tasks which fall to the civilian administration services of the Member States.
However, this programme does not rule out the national administrations which receive ARGO funding being able to delegate responsibilities for implementing the programmes in question to non-governmental organisations which propose implementing projects and programmes on the basis of the programme's objectives.
The legal basis of ARGO not only establishes general objectives, it also defines more precise objectives in each of the following areas: external borders, visas, asylum and emigration.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as regards the monitoring of external borders, the Schengen acquis was split, within the framework of the European Union, with important aspects coming under the first pillar and also important aspects coming under the third pillar.
In any case, I would like to thank Mr Oostlander for the support he has given to the Commission's proposal and to assure him that we can support, in spirit, many of the amendments that have been proposed, particularly those that seek to strengthen the role of the Community and those seeking to supplement or to strengthen the administrative cooperation objectives.
As the rapporteur has noted, cross-border observation is an instrument to maintain public order and safety which, with the removal of common borders between Schengen countries, will become extremely important.
I would also like to stress that, whilst the proposed change will facilitate enquiries, it will not change the legal framework applying to them, since the national authorities will, of course, only be able to act within their own national legislation, as well as that provided for by the Schengen Convention.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon.
The next item is the report (A5-0081/2002) by Luís Marinho, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national (COM(2001) 447 - C5-0403/2001 - 2001/0182(CNS)).
And this is how illegal immigration and the organised networks start, with the growth of mafias and crime, involvement in which is inexcusable but which is only possible because States, consisting of well-intentioned individuals, have never agreed on minimum standards for actually making one State responsible for examining an asylum application.
And also, for humanitarian reasons to do with health or other matters, the asylum applicant can, according to the wording approved in my report, go to any relative as long as the State in which the application is made accepts this.
Mr President, the important thing is to ensure that the application for asylum and the refugee who makes this application are given an answer and that the European legal system serves the rights of applicants and Member States' obligations and prevents a lack of legislation leading to an upsurge in racism and xenophobia.
I feel, however, that this report does justice to the problem and seeks, first and foremost, to find a sufficiently sound solution, not least with a view to finding a better alternative to the Dublin Convention itself.
This is therefore an important contribution which will undeniably improve on the regulation.
The same applies to the responsibility placed on a Member State which does not take effective action against the illegal presence of third-country citizens on its territory, making liability equivalent to that of a Member State which fails to control its borders properly.
The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs adopted this report by a large majority and thereby confirmed the rapporteur in his views.
There are no grounds for trying to recast this draft in a form that will, at the end of the day, benefit neither the applicants for asylum nor the Member States.
I myself saw the remains of 500 people laid out in a line in industrial premises.
I want to praise the rapporteur for the work he has put in and for the sensitivity he has shown.
In conclusion, I want to put a direct question to Commissioner Vitorino.
Positive motivation, then, is extremely important to a successful asylum policy.
My group does not agree with this approach which is why we have tabled amendments designed to de-link immigration controls from dealing with asylum applications.
Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome the Commission proposals and support the rapporteur and the report as it was voted on in the committee.
The increased threat of terror and the general rise in movements of refugees worldwide mean that we must at last give people a clear picture of what possibilities there are for them in the European Union.
One thing is clear, namely that the EU must, as far as possible, have its policies on internal affairs, asylum, and immigration well in hand before the new members join.
If we manage to get all the Member States to adhere to common rules, our work on this report will have given the project of an enlarged European Union and a common judicial area greater certainty and more success.
We must stop the problem of refugees 'in orbit'.
Most will be exhausted, many disorientated, frightened or frail.
This would cover the Sangatte Centre near Calais.
But the situation at Sangatte cannot be allowed to fester.
Clearly, these are three very different cases and the solutions needed to regulate these situations will therefore also be very different.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of asylum has come to occupy a prominent place on the political agenda of the European Union and of its Member States, especially following the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which conferred new competences on the Community, opening up new possibilities for action on a European scale.
The proposal that we are debating here today is part of the dynamic of establishing a common European asylum system based on the full and broad application of the Geneva Convention, which is intended to create a clear, more simple and workable method, for determining which State is responsible for examining an application for asylum submitted in a Member State by a third-country national in the context of an asylum process that is intended to be fair and effective.
It is easy to feel powerless faced with the fact that so many people need this protection, but also faced with the inability we have in many quarters to integrate asylum seekers and immigrants into our Member States.
The proposal concerning responsibility for asylum applications is a small, but very important, step in developing a common asylum policy in the EU.
Member States must be able to handle applications for asylum and requests for reception more efficiently.
The debate on the directive on family unity is still continuing; it is therefore unreasonable to define what constitutes a family separately in each directive.
We must acknowledge the fact that since harmonisation is, at present, very limited, the most practical and most effective solution is to accept that the State responsible for the entry of refugees onto the European Union's territory must be the State which has the final say on the asylum application, and this must be done in a spirit of solidarity and loyal cooperation.
The Commission's proposal is therefore based on the same principle as the Dublin Convention.
In answer to Mr Olle Schmidt's question, first of all, this allows for the existence of clear rules on the responsibility of the Member State; secondly, it gives clarification, which has been added to our proposal, on the standard of proof required for determining the State responsible, and finally, it stipulates rules on the subsidiary responsibility of the State which is negligent.
The Commission is aware that no system used for determining responsibility in asylum matters can claim to be perfect.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon.
Thank you very much, Mr Di Lello Finuoli.
