We have had more than 270 from the Member States, from regional and local authorities, and from European national and regional organisations, representing patients, healthcare providers, health professionals, social security institutions, health insurance, universities, and hospitals, and even from individual citizens.
It obviously has consequences for health professionals, who have demands in relation to legal certainty, and, of course, for patients, who are anxious to receive quality care.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, you know from our discussion in committee that this issue is extremely important for myself and for the PSE Group.
Discussion of patient mobility should not in any event lead to the national healthcare systems being undermined or to Member States passing the buck in an attempt to make their own health care systems reliable, whether in terms of quality or quantity.
In this regard I would like to emphasise that patients are not goods and healthcare professionals are not the same as other service providers.
Despite the fact that cross-border health services only account for about 1% of healthcare provision, the Commission's communication focuses on patient mobility, cost refunds, etc.
Health is an area in which the Member States have competence and in which the principle of subsidiarity applies.
It is important that the proposal produced by the Commission should be a step forward, rather than backward, and we have high hopes of Commissioner Kyprianou in this regard. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, health services, which have been excluded from the Services Directive, constitute a crucial pillar of the European social model.
It is imperative that a European legislative framework and, more specifically, a directive on health services, be adopted in order to increase the legal protection of patients, health professionals and health insurance systems and thus to restore the confidence of all Europeans in all Member States. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, health knows no frontiers, or at least, one hopes that that is the case.
