This reunification, made possible by the fall of the Berlin Wall the year before, was not only of great significance to the Germans, but also, to the whole of Europe as it symbolised reconciliation between the East and the West after 40 years of cold war.
I would like to express, on behalf of Parliament, our shared pleasure with our friends in Germany in celebrating this anniversary.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, you expressed the wish that we should devote our efforts today to the forthcoming European Council meeting in Biarritz, and this will indeed be an important milestone in this half-year Presidency of the Council.
The Biarritz Council of 13 and 14 October will come roughly halfway through our presidency; so work will already be well underway, without any compromises having been reached, and the time will have come to take stock and put down a marker with a view to the Nice European Council.
However, the French Presidency seems to have attained cruising speed, and would appear to have made completely satisfactory progress on the matters in hand; I am aware that certain observers have been critical, but they doubtless expected too much from us - and this is flattering, but at the same time does not suit us, since a presidency is always too short - only totalling four productive months, I would remind you - and have forgotten that this presidency, just like any other, is subject to many serious constraints.
Certain events which have received ample coverage in the press have thus overshadowed the work done in recent weeks.
I refer in particular to the surge in oil prices - and would point out that the members of the European Council will also be discussing this issue - and to the fluctuations in the value of the euro and the referendum in Denmark.
I can nevertheless assure you that we will continue in our efforts on the basis of the timetable set and I feel that the required results have been achieved.
I take, by way of example, the latest General Affairs Council, with an initial agreement on MEDA II, the continuing debate on increasing the effectiveness of the Union' s external aid, the message to the Serbian people, which can be seen to have carried weight in the current situation, and the first progress report ever on the enlargement process, which we will be discussing again this afternoon, in this Chamber.
Likewise, the informal Council of Defence Ministers held on 22 September gave reason to hope that completely satisfactory results will be obtained by the end of the presidency as concerns the commitment of capabilities.
Not to mention the priorities which we have described as citizens' priorities, since they lie at the heart of the concerns of all the citizens of Europe: growth and employment, their children' s education - this question was discussed at the Education Council held this weekend - the future of social protection and transport safety amid new circumstances marked by the surge in oil prices.
As I pointed out during the debate held on 11 July at the invitation of Mr Napolitano, our concern, right from the outset, has been to restart discussions on a more open basis in order to give ourselves every chance of reaching a satisfactory agreement in Nice.
We have therefore been keen, on the one hand, to emphasise the link between the three issues that were left unresolved in Amsterdam, which in our mind form a whole, a package, and, on the other hand, to take a long look at the major issue of closer cooperation, within the context of an enlarged Europe.
Your participation is always very important.
You have not failed to point out how vital it was to mobilise efforts in order for these negotiations to progress and a successful conclusion to be reached within the deadlines set.
The presidency, just like the Commission, also firmly emphasised, back at the Evian 'Gymnich' , the informal meeting of the Foreign Affairs Ministers, in early September, that there was a real risk of failure at Nice, and that France, as the country holding the presidency, would prefer to take responsibility for a failure such as this than for a flawed agreement.
This message seems to have got through, but I seemed to detect, at the General Affairs Council of 18 September and at the mini-meeting I chaired that evening in Brussels, real signs of realisation setting in.
In any case, it would seem impossible for a Union with twenty, twenty-five or thirty Member States to carry on with the current system without it being reformed.
I nevertheless believe - and this is my personal feeling - that substantial progress will take a little longer.
But it is important for the Heads of State and Government meeting at the Biarritz European Council to talk about it.
The Commission has put forward highly constructive proposals that will enable us to move forward in a manner which addresses the problems raised by each delegation, and I am very grateful to it.
Lastly, as concerns closer cooperation, you will be aware that the problem was, and still is to some extent, that many Member States saw in this, a priori, a risk of creating a two-speed Europe, or even of it being used as a substitute for real progress involving all 15 Member States in the field of qualified majority voting.
We have held several in-depth exchanges of views on this issue at ministerial level, and I believe that these have enabled us to clarify the concept of closer cooperation and to dispel the misgivings of those most sceptical.
The parallel debate on the future of an enlarged Europe has in its own way made a both positive, and perhaps occasionally negative, contribution to this.
Indeed, since a majority of Member States would not seem to be contemplating a radical switch towards any other type of, let us say, much more federal institutional model, one cannot but acknowledge that closer cooperation is a fine tool which provides a response to the realistic observation that, in an enlarged Europe, not all the Member States will always be able, or want, to move forward at the same rate.
There is, of course, still work to be done, particularly as concerns defining the conditions in which principles could be simplified and the conditions for triggering this mechanism made more flexible, while still preserving a number of guarantees.
Lastly, the Presidency will examine, in agreement with the Member States, the possibility of supplementing Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union, notably on the basis of the proposals already put forward by the Member States and by the Commission.
As you will be aware, the draft Charter was formally adopted by the Convention yesterday, on 2 October, with the invaluable and highly effective support of Parliament' s representatives.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, represented by its chairman, Giorgio Napolitano, has nevertheless voiced concern over the future of this draft Charter and the possibility of incorporating it into the Treaties at the Nice European Council.
I therefore deduce from this question that Parliament, or at least its Committee on Constitutional Affairs, endorses the text produced by the Convention, with certain reservations of course, at which I can only express pleasure.
We will doubtless have the chance to discuss that text again in greater depth in the debate on its proclamation by the three institutions scheduled to be take place in this Chamber in November.
But, before giving a precise answer to the question from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to explain why it is that the work done by the Convention would seem to constitute a twofold success.
Similarly, it is quite remarkable that the Convention has worked both in a manner that is completely transparent, and completely interactively with the citizens via the Internet.
From this point of view, the Charter is firstly, and this is a sufficiently rare thing in our texts for it to warrant a mention, a clear and well-structured document.
The Charter is also cogent.
It enshrines many new rights that correspond to the necessary development in our societies, be they the development of technologies, the appearance of new dependencies, or the complexity of our administrative systems.
Lastly, I am sure you will understand my delight at the importance that this text accorded to economic and social rights.
Putting on my second, my national, hat, I would say that France has argued strongly for this section to be a substantial one, but I have seen that many other Member States desired the same thing, which this Presidency can only welcome.
The Charter guarantees the right to a free education, the right of workers to be informed and consulted, and the right to collective bargaining and action, including the right to strike, the right of protection against any form of unjustified dismissal, the right to social protection, and the ban on child employment.
Moreover, the Council is yet to address this matter.
I must nevertheless confirm - at least this is my feeling - that a large majority, if not a very large majority, of Member States would still seem to oppose its prompt incorporation, which is, of course, a factor that this Presidency has to take into account.
I am thus tempted to answer your question with one of my own: should one take the risk of this text - which as I have said is set to become a milestone - being rejected at Biarritz, or should one trust in the potency of this Charter, which I am sure will establish itself as a reference for values in the European Union and a source of inspiration to the Court of Justice in Luxembourg?
Discussions on the future of the Charter are, to my mind, closely akin to discussions on the future of Europe.
However, there is still a lot of work to be done before embarking on this new phase.
It would seem to be premature to want to outline a timetable for this at the present juncture, and this could also have adverse effects on the negotiations of the IGC.
First of all there is the question of improving institutional administration in a Union which has 30 Member States.
We are already addressing this issue in the context of the current Intergovernmental Conference, but we are also clearly aware that we will have to go further, a good deal further, in adapting the Community method if we are to preserve its essential features.
I touched on this in connection with closer cooperation.
These are not new issues and, above all, we are well aware of how difficult they are.
However, while we are attempting to resolve our own problems we must spare a thought for our friends and neighbours who are facing decisive challenges.
The Commission will work alongside Parliament and the Council to ensure that the European Union produces political action which will enable us to remain protagonists in humanitarian and financial matters.
Rigour and objectivity are essential if we are to secure the public support which is vital both in the candidate countries and in those countries which are already Members of the Union.
There is an urgent need in the Member States of the Union for a debate which will allow the citizens to grasp the full significance of the remarkable episode of history which is unfolding with the rebuilding of a united Europe and, at the same time, to become fully aware of the potential benefits to be gained from creating a market of 500 million consumers.
However, there are equally clear signs in the candidate countries of growing concern over the lack of a clear, binding timetable for accession.
If a Treaty of Nice implementing all the above projects were to be adopted in December, allowing due time for national ratification procedures, the Union could be ready for enlargement at the beginning of 2003.
The consistency of the acquis communautaire and the uniformity of the judicial framework must be preserved.
These reforms are the minimum changes necessary - and I repeat, the very minimum necessary - before enlargement takes place, to ensure that enlargement does not irreversibly impair the Union's ability to act.
Equally important for the future of Europe - at Biarritz and later at Nice - will be the debate on the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The Charter will, in fact, become the reference point both for those countries which are already Members of the Union and those which are preparing for accession.
Looking immediately ahead, beyond Biarritz and Nice, we have a duty to consider our future.
The future of a newly reunited Europe is not carved in stone.
I am heartened by the fact that there now seems to be more of a consensus on the need to address these issues than there was when I first raised them in this very Chamber this time last year.
Its originality lies without doubt in the Commission and its right of initiative.
The Commission is the melting pot into which the various national interests and tensions are poured, and from which emerge proposals that seek to reconcile these often conflicting interests.
In this way, it provides not only an analysis and synthesis of the issues under consideration but also a starting point for negotiations in which, once national differences have been expressed, the common European interest can be identified.
This executive body, which combines independence with a sensitivity to the balance of powers and interests of all the Member States, both large and small, is crucial for the pooling of sovereignty in the Community.
However, the role of the Commission is necessary for the integration of Europe but is not sufficient on its own.
The value of Europe derives from an institutional system in which Parliament, Council and the Court of Justice play a role which is equally decisive.
The European system is a system of balances in which the smooth running of each institution serves the common interest.
Any weakening of one of these institutions weakens the whole.
The European process can only derive its democratic validity from a dual legitimation: the direct legitimation of the European people, as represented by you, the Members of the European Parliament, and the legitimation of the Member States which, in turn, is based on national democratic elections.
We must put an end, once and for all, to the current paradoxical situation in which even the deliberations of the fifteen Justice Ministers on such sensitive areas as criminal law and police cooperation escape the scrutiny of Parliament and the Court of Justice. (Applause)In the recent controversy surrounding the events in Austria, the compulsion to resist any racist or authoritarian tendencies - a reaction with which I fully sympathise - ended up creating an artificial distinction between the bilateral action of the Member States and the action of the Union as a whole.
However, I firmly believe that democracy cannot be a matter for subsidiarity: it must thrive at all levels. (Applause)Furthermore, I cannot help thinking that, when a serious problem arises at Union level, it should first be debated before this House, which is the centre and expression of our democracy.
I therefore agree that the time has come to open the debate on the distribution of powers between the Union and the Member States.
In the area of foreign and security policy, the Treaty of Amsterdam only provided a temporary response to a lasting need.
While I can assure Javier Solana of the wholehearted support of the Commission - and I admire the extraordinary personal commitment which has enabled him to achieve major, unhoped-for results - I have to stress that the present organisational model is not sustainable in the long term. (Applause)This model confuses the roles of the Council and the Commission in a way that could jeopardise both struts of the institutional system and exclude Parliament from any effective power.
The current situation should be seen as a transitional phase, useful for launching European action in a new area but destined to be reabsorbed into the conventional institutional structure, as happened in similar cases such as Schengen.
The current management of economic policy projects an image of Europe as indecisive and muddled.
The simple, natural, effective solution is there, under our noses: the Commission, acting on a mandate from the Council, should be the voice of the Union's economic policy.
In fact, you only have to read the Treaty to realise that, while the Central Bank is the lynchpin of monetary policy, the body responsible for the overall assessment of the European Union's economic policy can only be the Commission.
My second example of the risk of fragmentation is the desire expressed by some Member States in the Intergovernmental Conference to amend the Treaty to facilitate the creation of agencies upon which the Commission can then confer executive powers.
If I say it once again, it is because I genuinely believe that it has never been more true.
The debate about the future of Europe in the perspective of enlargement is a healthy and vital one.
We have built a unique system in which the guarantees of the democratic state governed by the rule of law on which our societies are founded also form the basis for the Community.
They must continue to guide any further advances in common action at European level.
Many people in the world look, full of hope, to our European model and its successes for inspiration.
I would also like to thank Mr Moscovici for his careful, thorough response to the oral question which I tabled on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
Secondly, due consideration must certainly be given to the argument of timing - I am familiar with it, Minister, and it is a very strong argument - namely the fact that there has not yet been enough time for the issue to be fully explored and that the majority of the Member States are currently opposed to the idea.
It is also true that we must have faith - and many of us do - in the power of the Charter as such and in its capacity to inspire the decisions of the Luxembourg Court, but what we are trying to say, Mr Moscovici, is that the issue of whether and how to incorporate the Charter into the Treaties cannot be avoided.
To sum up, what we want is to open a discussion on the matter in Biarritz and to continue until Nice, so that, at Nice and even after Nice, we will then be able to outline the practical steps to be taken once the Intergovernmental Conference is over. (Applause) Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, today we are looking into the future of the European Union and we are therefore debating the future of Europe.
We declare our solidarity with the elected President Vojislav Kostunica and all democrats in Serbia.
Parliament - in any case my group - will stand resolutely at your side if you continue to defend these principles in the future. (Applause) And now we look towards Biarritz.
Of course we need to apply the principle of democracy in practice.
This means that the majority of the population must be reflected in a majority vote.
I would also ask, however, that we respect the rights of small countries in the European Union and avoid any arrogance on the part of large countries in the European Union.
The small countries have their dignity too, and perhaps the outcome of the vote in Denmark would have been different if we had behaved differently in connection with one quite specific issue in recent weeks and months. (Applause) We say yes to closer cooperation.
But this closer cooperation must not exclude anyone.
And it is then for the nation states to determine what should be decided at regional or district level.
We wholeheartedly support what you said in this regard, Mr President of the Commission.
Our group should like to thank Roman Herzog and for our Parliament Iñigo Méndez de Vigo, as well as all colleagues from all the groups who have participated in this.
But I expect and hope that you will also find the right way gradually to make these fundamental rights European Union law.
This law is the foundation stone for peace in Europe.
Like the majority of the Council, you belong to the political family of François Mitterrand.
And if you do then our family of parties - which was founded on the legacy of Konrad Adenauer, Alcide de Gasperi and Robert Schuman - will also be at your side when it comes to building a common Europe.
The Biarritz Summit is about to take place and I must say, on behalf of my Group and of my political family, the Party of European Socialists, that we consider the work carried out by the Convention on the Charter of Fundamental Rights to be a success in terms of what it has achieved and also in terms of the method it has used.
Madam President, I believe that the Charter currently sends an important message to our citizens and also to the candidate countries.
In relation to the debate on enlargement to follow, my Group believes that it is important for us to send a positive message to these countries.
When producing a resolution of 120 sections, the first thing we have to say is that we want the whole of the enlargement process to be carried out in a clear and transparent way, dealing with its needs, but at a sustained pace.
It is important that this Parliament sends the message that it is essential to set the timetable at the European Council in Nice, which needs to be successful.
I really do not understand - I am now addressing the President-in-Office of the Council - why, when for once we have done something really good and which we are all pleased with, we are going to put the Charter on the back burner after Nice.
I am not asking for it to be included directly in the Treaties but, while we are discussing Articles 6 and 7, we must affirm our community of values.
It is very difficult to explain to our voters that we have done a good job, which we are all very pleased about, but that we are going to put it off until a later date.
I believe that the Council and the governments must give serious consideration to what must be the frontispiece to our Union.
And that is the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Secondly, with regard to the method, we have not discovered the philosopher' s stone, but we have realised that this method is democratic, because it is public, transparent, and is allowing the citizens and civil society to follow what we are doing in real time.
The truth is that, after listening to the report of the President-in-Office of the Council on the development of the Intergovernmental Conference - he has said it with the discretion and elegance worthy of the Presidency, especially if it is French, but he has said that we are in a situation of total stalemate, and has used the term 'paradox' - I ask myself: could we not apply the Convention method to the Intergovernmental Conferences? (Applause) That is a very fundamental question which would resolve many of our problems.
Because in the Intergovernmental Conferences - and we all know this from what they tell us and we have two representatives who are showing great patience - the representatives are limited to following instructions so that the leaders, at the end, simply negotiate during the last five minutes, which produces the type of Treaties which we have, which are completely incomprehensible, even to the initiated. (Applause) I therefore believe that there is a second message which we must direct at our governments when they meet in Biarritz and in Nice, and that is that the next Intergovernmental Conference, even this one, could be replaced with the Convention method.
Thirdly, in relation to the President of the Commission' s comments on the future, I agree on one basic idea: at a time when, unfortunately, there is a debate in which there is talk of a constitution, of federalism, in which we have our Heads of State - tomorrow we will have President Ciampi - making grandiose claims for the future of Europe, I must say that the Heads of State and Government say many things in favour of Europe in public which they appear to resolve in private.
Mr President of the Commission, it is true that we have to construct for the future on the basis of the present.
We completely agree on this and also on the fact that we have to try to take advantage of that triangle.
I believe that President Prodi has understood this, because, if I am not mistaken, he was at the Amsterdam Summit where the High Representative for external policy was created.
Now I see that he is arguing for a progressive integration of something which Parliament, at that time, argued for before Amsterdam.
We are surely heading for a creative crisis in the Union.
I believe that, if there is a clear will to resolve the problems, while thinking of our citizens, transparently and publicly, according to Community methods, we will finally end up doing something which was asked of us in this very House by a leader with enormous moral authority: President Havel told us that we needed a clear constitution which we could explain to our children.
I believe that that can finally help us to guide the future of Europe. (Applause) Madam President, Mr Prodi, this morning has been your finest hour since you took over the leadership of the European Commission.
Madam President, just for once I would like to begin by thanking the two speakers, both the President-in-office of the Council and the President of the Commission, for the quality of their interventions.
Other speakers have already made the point that we must be mindful of the fact that throughout the European Union there is a crisis of confidence in the European Institutions.
This crisis of confidence has made itself felt itself in Denmark in particular and, even if the result of the vote there can be interpreted in different ways, there can be no doubt that a section of the Danish electorate wanted to indicate a certain lack of confidence in the European Union, not least in its ineffectiveness and lack of political will in terms of social matters, environmental protection and democratic transparency.
The setting up of the Convention represented a major step towards a more democratic Europe, insofar as the process breaks with the intergovernmental approach.
I believe that deferring the issue would be the worst possible option, both for the citizens of Europe and for the citizens of the candidate countries.
But the way forward certainly does not lie in the centralisation of powers in the hands of the Commission.
In my view, it is the institutional system as a whole, including the Commission, that should be transformed, and the new factor that must lie at the heart of these changes are the operators that form part of the social movement, the citizens, those people who were notably absent from your speech.
In short, we need politics in the true sense of the word, since it is on this that the future of Europe hinges.
Madam President, the decision of the Danish people on 28 September on participation in the European currency regime will undoubtedly figure at the Biarritz European Council meeting.
EU Member State governments must now seriously reflect on what has happened in Denmark.
The Danish decision comes two months before EU leaders are to meet in Nice to reform existing EU treaties and policies.
It will help consolidate democratic and civil structures in eastern and central Europe, expand market economies and help build a European continent at peace with itself.
However, EU Member State governments face difficult choices.
We cannot deny that the Danish people used the recent referendum as a test of confidence in the structures of the European Union.
The referendum in Denmark had more to do with the direction of the European Union and future political integration than actually participating in the Euro currency itself.
However, the point remains the same: namely that the European Member State governments, the European Commission and the European Parliament have a serious battle on their hands to persuade the 370 million citizens of the European Union that greater political and economic integration is the way forward for the European Union.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, Mr Moscovici, it is precisely the Charter of Fundamental Rights that will, at Biarritz, provide the solutions to institutional problems.
Granted, this text may seem commonplace at first sight, but it takes on great meaning in the light of topical events.
We need a sense of perspective, a sense of the proportionality set out in Article 48 of the Charter, before voicing off from our own standpoint as relatively well off in human rights terms.
Let us not violate it before it is even applied.
Mr President, judging by what I have heard recently, one could be forgiven for believing that nothing of any great importance happened on 28 September.
This right to difference and to respect is what must underpin any debate on institutional affairs, particularly at Biarritz.
Unfortunately, this would seem to be the path that the Intergovernmental Conference wants to follow, by focusing on the extension of qualified majority voting.
Let us therefore take advantage of the current discussions within the IGC to redefine, at last, a system that has reached its limits.
The current desire to extend qualified majority voting will not bring Europe closer to the citizens.
The northern part under French rule has no official recognition whatsoever, despite the clear will of two thirds of the citizens and elected representatives to have a Basque département of its own.
Mr President, I wish firstly, as other previous speakers have done, to congratulate President Prodi on his speech.
The applause that rounded it off clearly demonstrates that when there is a specific political objective, this Parliament can be relied upon to support it.
Because he acknowledged something which we are all satisfied with.
Mr Moscovici has said so very expressively.
The content of the Charter is good.
Previous speakers have spoken well of the Charter because it is a good Charter which brings together the classic rights of the nineteenth Century and the modern rights of the twenty-first century.
It is a Charter for the citizens, who have participated actively in its creation.
The argument of the President-in-Office of the Council is that there is a risk that the Charter will not be accepted by all the Member States as legally binding.
But I believe things are changing, Mr Moscovici.
There are some - the Spanish Government has said this very clearly recently - who are in favour of incorporating the Charter into the Treaties.
However, even if what you say is true, and there are some governments who do not want it incorporated into the Treaties, I must say very clearly that the citizens of Europe and the Members of this Parliament have the right to know who those governments are.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Commission has just told us that in matters of democracy there is no room for subsidiarity.
This Charter is primarily a charter for the inhabitants of the European Union, and I believe that it is also a charter for all those who want to join that Union.
I believe that a solution has now been found to this problem.
This Charter should form part of the acquis communautaire.
I believe that, as faithful servants of this Parliament, we used the mandate, all the mandate but not just the mandate, and I cannot but welcome this.
I also feel, however, that it includes some major advances, and that also means in relation to current texts.
They appear in the chapter on liberty, and in the chapter on equality, and quite rightly so, because this is a good way of promoting these economic and social rights.
As many people have already said, it is one that presupposes that the draft Charter currently on the table will remain intact, or that the Convention will be asked to rework it.
Let me remind you that we have not attempted to launch such an original process since the Assizes in Rome.
But the difference is that this time around, in my opinion, the method has worked perfectly.
It has not prevented the Heads of States and Government from giving their own instructions, and from having their representatives work together, but they have been doing so in a transparent manner, under the watchful eye of all the partners who, beginning with Parliament, have shown the extent to which they are able, in a process of this type, to perform their duties with a will to working towards and bringing about a result that is of value to everyone.
Much has already been said about this and, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have just described the extent to which the Intergovernmental Conference has been involved in amending Article 7.
Finally, it should request the Commission to launch a widespread campaign to inform the public of this great project.
Can you even proclaim rights in earnest without enshrining them in law?
Each article of this Charter is already enshrined in international conventions, in the constitutions of the Member States, in international law or in EU treaties and protocols.
Mr President, I have to say that it was certainly a moving moment yesterday when the Convention was able to adopt the draft Charter in Brussels.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights is indeed an important political project for the future of the European Union.
It makes the rights of the public in respect of the bodies and institutions of the European Union transparent, and it closes a loophole in the protection of people's fundamental rights.
We are seeking in vain to establish a right to a fair remuneration, despite the fact that this has been established by all States in the 1961 Social Charter.
On the other hand, I do also recognise the strengths of the Charter.
The level of protection of the public's fundamental rights will match that in the European Convention on Human Rights and will even guarantee a greater level of protection.
For example, I could imagine a referendum being held in all our countries in 2004 alongside the European elections to ask the people whether the Charter should become an integral part of the Treaties.
Mr President, in the referendum on the euro last week the Danes said no to the Europe of integration, no to the Europe of the super-state, and yes to a Europe of diversities, yes to a Europe that respects national democracies.
The Biarritz Council and, three months hence, the Nice Council, which are to discuss the European institutions, must draw a significant conclusion from this.
The response to enlargement is not increased supra-nationality, or an increase in powers, seated in Brussels, that are binding on all the Member States of the Union or even just on certain states that have joined together to form a hard core.
My compatriots voted for the single currency in 1992 because they had been told that this could work without a super-state.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as President Prodi will remember, the Italian Radicals voted against his appointment last year.
You have highlighted - and I applaud you for this - all the shortcomings of the process of European integration which have hitherto come to light and the implications for Nice if the method and spirit which, sadly, have pervaded recent Intergovernmental Conferences continue to prevail.
President Prodi, as other speakers have already said, the Commission needs to firmly reassert its role as the driving force behind European integration, and today, you have set down the broad guidelines for this.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the questions which Mr Napolitano asked the Council and Commission on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs bear witness to a view of the Charter, which, unfortunately, our group is unable to share.
It is quite unnecessary for this Charter to be established when it comes to stepping up the protection of fundamental rights in Europe.
This is also the view of experts in the field of European constitutional law.
A legally binding Charter is not only unnecessary, it even threatens to harm the enforcement of the fundamental rights.
As a Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities, we hope, however, that such a federal state will never see the light of day.
I see three benefits in it.
The first has been the method selected, that of the Convention, which took the form of a judicious blend involving the competent representatives at national and European level, even if there was an extra guest at the table, as Commissioner Vitorino underlined.
The three musketeers were in fact four, but they have indeed enabled a method to be set in place that we should turn to in the future to move matters forward within the European Union.
The second benefit has been the work carried on by the committee.
The quality of those who have spoken before me makes it unnecessary to linger on this point, but it is true that there is a real added value.
The first responsibility concerns our comments.
The second responsibility is that of adopting the Charter.
Lastly, the third responsibility is to follow up on this Charter, and we must show tenacity in this regard.
We have voted, by a very large majority, for a resolution that calls for this Charter to be incorporated into the Treaties.
The end result is therefore a text that will be of great value within Europe, as many people have stressed.
Lastly, with regard to the world outside Europe, I believe that human rights are the true message to come out of Europe.
However, today, the Charter is essentially a symbol, the symbol of the passage from the Europe of the single market to the political Europe, from the Europe of States to the Europe of the citizens.
The debilitating semi-secret or confidential negotiations which characterise the intergovernmental method do not produce the same results.
Now, this symbolic document is a milestone in the process of constitutionalising the European Union - for, in my opinion, the Union' s Constitution will not come into being in a single document all in one go, but will be the result of the gradual consolidation of the common institutions and the definition of shared fundamental rules - and it must become practically enforceable law.
In the Member States, we are all waiting for the Council of Ministers to show the political courage and will really to reform current cooperation.
The EU will never be ready, but the candidate countries must participate actively in future discussions.
The Convention method is perhaps more suitable than these intergovernmental conferences we have had in the past.
It is quite true that it is an improvement on an Intergovernmental Conference, but - take note, ladies and gentlemen - even the Convention was forced to achieve consensus on every single word and, in the end, particularly during the concluding phase, it turned into a sort of Intergovernmental Conference II: our Praesidium had to negotiate with the Member States instead of, or as well as, Members of Parliament.
Many European citizens are questioning the point reached by the Union, its objectives and even the logic of integration.
We say that there is a crisis of confidence with regard to the institutions, and I feel that this crisis is due in particular to the disparity between the expectations of society and the ability to live up to them.
Following on from what my fellow Member, Mr Wurtz, has said, I would like to stress the extent to which the vital reform of the institutions should address the issue of making the Union more democratic.
Europe is in danger of being defeated by compromises, not crises.
These are two different results which, however, I feel are closely related and herald new times.
On the other hand, the result, which we fully respect, may be an indication that the citizens do not yet feel in tune with the European ideal.
The problem may well be a general one.
The internal borders of today and the single currency of tomorrow are certainly useful, necessary symbols which will affect citizens' everyday lives in a practical way and contribute to reinforcing the European ideal, but they will not fulfil the citizens' call for greater heed to be paid to their views and for greater representation of their interests and, above all, of their hopes for the future.
As we know, the objectives set at the current Intergovernmental Conference do not meet this demand fully, although the reform of the weighting of votes and the extension of qualified majority voting are steps in this direction.
For a long time now, we have been talking about a post-Nice period during which institutions and operating procedures need to be reformed more effectively, also and especially with a view to enlargement.
The Convention was a Europe-wide success in terms of the formula adopted, the significant results achieved within the time allowed and the sense of accountability shown by all the participants.
Mr President, I too am proud of the text of the Charter which is being submitted to the Biarritz Council.
I have argued strongly in favour of including social, economic and cultural rights alongside the traditional fundamental rights.
Commissioner Vitorino knows exactly what I am referring to.
Naturally, the Charter must be incorporated into the Treaty and it should form the basis of a European constitution in future.
But some Member States need slightly more time to get used to the idea.
I think it is a realistic timetable to propose a project for the future of Europe under that Presidency, and the Charter will have a role to play in this.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important passage in the history of Europe, in the history of the world as well as of the Union.
The drawing-up and approval of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, together with an Intergovernmental Conference which may lead to decisive changes and enlargement are historic events which may leave their mark on the start of this new century.
The dilemma in the hearts of a great many citizens who want a political Europe, not just a great trading entity, is this: if the Intergovernmental Conference fails to produce the desired reforms, should we still proceed with enlargement?
We must allow everyone to follow his own political project in the Union, in a harmony of differences which, after all, has already proved to be a winning solution in the history of the European Union.
It adds nothing over and above what is at present implied in the EU' s, the Member States' and the Council of Europe' s policy in this area.
The Charter can therefore only be seen as an attempt to transfer responsibility for citizens' rights from the institutions in which they at present reside to the European Union.
It is aimed only at driving the EU towards a federal constitution.
Mr President, the result of the Danish referendum ought to be understood free from false interpretations.
It is not a sign that a majority of Danes are saying 'no' to European cooperation or that the Danes are not carefully informed about the ins and outs and development plans of the European Union.
A majority of Danes have said 'no' , as they did in 1992 and 1993, to more European integration, 'no' to surrendering more sovereignty and 'no' to the tools which serve these purposes, that is to say the euro, majority decision-making and a European constitution.
What I would also call for, however, is to look beyond immediate concerns in Biarritz.
We know all too well that the present Treaties are inadequate and that the Union will need a better and different structure in future, a more constitutional structure which clearly distinguishes the powers of the Member States and those of the Union.
I would first of all like to thank Mr Roman Herzog and Mr Inigo Méndez de Vigo for their sterling work and for the way compromises were struck time and again.
Mr President, I would like to end by making a final remark on Professor Prodi' s cry from the heart.
Our declaration of rights is the first of this millennium.
It offers an important message to our citizens and to surrounding countries about the constitutional principles upon which our countries are founded.
Our European identity and community of values will be strengthened.
This individual protection is an important basis for enlargement of the Union - the EU' s priority for the next few years.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, rarely can a Presidency of the European Union have been so burdened with challenges and chock-full of events.
These challenges are, in essence, the Intergovernmental Conference and the preparation for enlargement, which are of course interconnected.
The events are the problems currently being experienced by the euro, the surge in oil prices and, on a different level, the hopes for a transition towards democracy in Yugoslavia.
These are, first and foremost, messages of concern at the economic and social problems that we are experiencing, in spite of a period of sustained growth stemming from years of efforts by all our fellow citizens.
These are, as we know, very tricky negotiations and raise fears of a setback or a watered-down agreement in Nice which, as you have already acknowledged, Mr Moscovici, would be even more serious.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, in experiencing the adoption of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the European Parliament we are seeing history in the making.
The completion of this work is an important milestone in the history of the European Union, particularly for the people who live there.
The Intergovernmental Conference - to address a third subject - on the reform of the European institutions is also of decisive significance for us in Parliament.
Provision for social, cultural and charitable causes must be included in Article 87 so that the future of these important institutions can also be permanently safeguarded.
We have to pay particular attention to relations between the people and the Union' s institutions.
Despite the demands made here today in this House, it would appear that the Charter is not going to be made legally binding, but is merely to be a political declaration.
An agreement on procedures in itself is a good thing, but we must make sure that the system cannot be used as a political weapon.
The drafting of a European Charter of Fundamental Rights is an important and necessary step towards a Europe which is close to the people.
Some people think that it is possible to create an internal market in Europe without agreeing on fundamental values and principles.
The majority of the European Parliament has never supported this view.
For example, with the directive on patenting biotechnological inventions - which was, of course, supposed to be primarily an internal market directive - we did not allow this directive to be adopted without fundamental ethical principles being enshrined in it, and without particular techniques which offend against human dignity being prohibited from patenting.
Where modern genetic engineering is concerned, in particular, this was an important step towards establishing common values in Europe.
The Charter is a further - certainly much more important - step.
But the draft is worth improving precisely in respect of the protection of human dignity and the protection against its abuse by modern technologies.
The wording is imprecise in some places, and I am particularly concerned that Article 3 of the draft Charter only prohibits the reproductive cloning of human beings.
Commissioner Busquin very kindly assured me of this once again in a letter this week, and that is why it is dangerous for us now to be weaker in the Charter than in existing European Union legislation.
Secondly, it lies in its transparency for the public, who now know what rights they have in respect of those who create and apply European law, and in its transparency for those who do precisely that, draft or apply European law.
The Charter therefore guarantees a greater level of protection than the European Convention on Human Rights - this needs to be said to all those who are asserting the opposite here in the plenary - and it formulates political and social rights in a balanced way.
It is the first declaration of human rights of the new millennium and the most modern charter of human rights available anywhere in the world.
I have of course noted - and this is cause for great satisfaction - that the European Parliament is almost unanimously content with the Charter.
That lends great weight to this text, and to the European Council as concerns furthering the Charter.
I agree with him on the need to maintain the institutional balance and enhance the role, in political terms, of both the Commission and the Council.
I agree with him that the Commission must continue to play a pivotal role as guardian of the common interests of the Community.
There are certain areas in which the sovereignty of the Member States could not be called into question without this conflicting with the spirit of European integration.
The first concerns the common foreign and security policy, and the suggestion to integrate the High Representative for CFSP into the Commission.
Perhaps one day we will have to abolish this function, but that day has not yet come.
The second slight difference concerns the euro.
The recent fluctuations in this currency have revealed the need for a more political style of governance, of management.
For all that, we should not, I feel, steer clear of strong intergovernmental cooperation, cooperation in respect of economic policies, when seeking solutions.
That is why I believe it is very important for the Chairman of the Eurogroup - which we chose to set up - to continue to play a full role in this area.
But we must reach agreement on what to put in this constitution.
He was quite right to emphasise the distance we have travelled since the fall of the wall and the reunification of Germany ten years ago.
I hope now that democracy has gained a foothold in Serbia.
Mr Barón Crespo emphasised that the Charter was a fine document and one to be proud of.
I believe that we must not forget, quite simply, that some Member States - it is not my job to name them - have already had to overcome considerable resistance and reluctance in getting this text accepted, which is why I am being, if not prudent, then at least patient, as I believe is necessary.
I could mention, for example, the social agenda which is a priority for us, or the setting in place of something that I would not call an economic government, but economic governance, to address these problems.
I will end by saying let there be no doubt but that the French Presidency intends to give the European Parliament all the attention it deserves, and that I will be in this Chamber on 24 October to report on Biarritz.
I would add that we want to work in the complete transparency you desire, and to carry on with the regular exchanges that we have held with you since July.
I delivered this speech today because I can see that the hazards which have combined in recent months to threaten Europe have aroused in us a common determination with the potential to produce tangible results in the future.
However, we cannot stop here: in addition to making the solemn political proclamation of the Charter, we need to assume a clear position regarding its incorporation into the Treaty of the Union.
I therefore hope that the Nice European Council will associate itself with this project and decide to launch it as a practical project rather than an accomplished fact once, of course, the reforms of which we are currently in need have been adopted.
I have therefore defined not only the major role of the Commission but the roles of all the institutions and I have also stressed - and I reiterate this once again because it is even more important - the need to mobilise the people and their consciences.
I have been coherent and firm in my intentions but also realistic, outlining the stages of what can be achieved today and what must wait until tomorrow.
I certainly do not want to go overboard on this point, but I was pleased to note that in the Sydney Olympics, the first dope-free Olympics - I am informed - and therefore Olympics which we can define in the spirit of De Coubertin, the 15 countries of the Union won 239 medals and the United States of America only 97.
The debate is closed.
We do not want researchers to suffer because of there being insufficient regard for human rights in Chechnya, and I would ask that we send out a signal here, a signal of openness towards Russia and openness towards cooperation.
Only if we bind Russia to the West and to the European Union will we also be able to bring an influence to bear on its policies and remain in contact and in discussion with Russia.
Amendments Nos 10, 11 and 15 are acceptable in principle.
He is currently continuing this genocide and moreover he is also trying to completely eliminate the freedom of the media and the rule of law in Russia, which, as it is, barely exist. . (IT) I abstained in the vote on the proposal for a Decision concluding the agreement between the European Community and the government of the Russian Federation because the proposal fails to deal with the extremely important area of cooperation over the removal of antipersonnel mines and the conversion of the firms which produce them.
This is a particularly important point, also in view of past dealings between Russian and Italian firms, such as, for example, those directed by the former senator Claudio Regis, a well-known manufacturer of criminal devices such as these.
It is, however, essential for the procedures for drawing up these national accounts, both in the transactions described and the institutional sectors summarised, to be identical from one country to the next.
In the case in point, the amendment of the 1996 Council Regulation before us, the Commission proposes to register taxes and contributions by taking account primarily of the revenue actually collected, rather than the tax calculated as due on the basis of the taxable event.
The Commission also proposes to apply a coefficient to the 'non collectable' percentage in order to avoid understating the true level of deficit, compared with the Maastricht requirements.
Piecyk recommendation for second reading (A5-0232/2000) Mr President, before I left for Strasbourg to come to this part-session, a pensioner from Cremona, a town in the Po Valley on the River Po, asked me to tell him when it would at last be possible to sail on the Po.
In order to do something to meet the expectations of this pensioner, who is called Giuseppe Italia, lives in Cremona and would love to be able to sail on the Po, I voted for the Piecyk report, which concerns the expansion and development of sea and inland ports and intermodal terminals.
We did not, consequently, vote in favour of this report. . (FR) Our report discusses a proposal amending Council Directive 96/53/EC with a view to authorising buses with a length of 15 metres for circulation within the European Union.
In that sense one can say that this proposal formalises an existing situation.
A 15-metre bus can take some 67 passengers, i.e. 16 more than a 12-metre bus.
It is therefore entirely justifiable that a number of EU Member States only permit buses up to 12 metres.
Mr President, I voted for the Skinner report, as I explained during the debate before the vote, because I feel that risk capital is important.
The Heads of State and Government therefore agreed a number of measures to promote the development of risk capital in the European Union, with a deadline for implementing the Risk Capital Action Plan of 2003.
The Commission Communication is an acknowledgement that concrete measures need to be taken to create a genuinely European and highly liquid risk capital market in the EU.
In reality, they often have more in common with gamblers who hope to tap into goldmines.
Resolution "Charter on Fundamental Rights" (B5-0767/2000) Mr President, on behalf of my group I want to state that the implementation of a new EU Charter of Fundamental Rights will certainly raise the status and visibility of human rights in the European Union.
It is stated in Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam that fundamental rights exist within the Union and must be respected.
Citizens from the candidate countries in central and eastern Europe can also draw inspiration from such a charter.
However, we should recall that the European Convention on Human Rights, which all Member States have signed and adopted in their national law, has now been operating for nearly 50 years and works hand in hand with the UN Declaration on Human Rights.
The citizens from Member States of the countries of the ECHR have confidence in this convention and jurisprudence has built up around it.
Our primary concern with regard to the Charter of Fundamental Rights is that it must not conflict with the European Convention.
The most difficult problem facing this new charter is not its actual content but whether it has legal status.
A binding and all-embracing charter with completely legally enforceable rights could result in difficulties at a later stage.
This is not, however, the case for basic rights such as the right of all employees to strike or join unions.
It is important that the Charter addresses three audiences.
Firstly, it addresses our citizens and tells them that this is not a Europe that simply does things to them but does things for them and respects their rights in carrying out its activities.
I hope that the Heads of Government and the Heads of State meeting in Biarritz will take this seriously and consider making it a binding document but if not, at the very least, ensure at Nice that it becomes a declaration annexed to the Treaty of the European Union.
Mr President, I voted in favour of this Charter, not least because of the influence which our colleague, Ingo Friedrich, and Professor Herzog have exerted on its content.
But it has to be said that this Charter is a step in the right direction.
Hence our "yes" in the hope that this is only a first step and that improvements can be made in the next few years.
Mr President, I abstained from the vote on the resolution on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union because I consider that this Charter is still extremely unsatisfactory, despite some progress.
If, as I hope, this article becomes part of the Treaty of Nice, the elderly will at last be protected by a constitutional Charter of Fundamental Rights.
We are pleased to note that the Convention has succeeded in producing a draft Charter.
We believe that, as a political document, the Charter is a good point of departure for this wholly necessary dialogue, which is now about to begin.
We do not, however, believe that the latter can be concluded in Nice in less than three months, for which reason alone we cannot vote in favour of incorporating the Charter into the Treaty at the Nice Summit. . (FR) Scarcely has the 'body' entrusted by the Cologne Council with the task of drafting the Charter of Fundamental Rights completed its work than all the federalists, particularly in this House, go into collective raptures about the results.
As a member of the European Parliament delegation to this body, having worked, together with my fellow members, on the matter for eight months, I must say that the Charter of Fundamental Rights could well, in fact, have represented an added value for Europe but that, as things stand at present, we can derive no satisfaction from either its content or the working methods which governed its drafting.
As I stated in the proposal I submitted to the Praesidium of the body, from the start of the work, peoples' rights are already adequately protected in Europe, both by the national legal systems and by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which is an extension of these.
A text of this type would be extremely useful, not just in re-establishing the true meaning of democracy, but also in making the institutions ready for the future enlarged Europe.
We cannot conceive of a political declaration at the European level which does not make any mention of the key role of the national democracies, the rights they enshrine, nor of the implications for European institutions.
The Convention was thus a muddled system, generating irresponsibility, and not particularly favourable to well-ordered democracy.
The final adoption of the draft Charter intended for submission to the Council, on 2 October this year, represented a monumental work of ambiguity, since apparently a number of members agreed on condition that it was a political declaration, whereas others agreed on condition that it was a binding text, and they skirted around this critical divergence in the same way that they skirted around the existence of an opposition to which I myself belonged.
President Roman Herzog was therefore able to officially convey the final draft to the French Presidency in readiness for the Biarritz Summit.
The European Parliament will give its opinion on this text at a later date by giving their formal assent.
We already expressed this desire when we voted on the last resolution on this subject on 16 March 2000.
That is why I voted in favour of this resolution and supported the amendment tabled by the chairwoman of the French Socialist delegation, Pervenche Berès, urging the Biarritz Summit to ask the IGC to examine all the ways in which the Charter might be incorporated into the Treaty, as a preamble, protocol or a reference to the Charter enshrined in Article 6, which stipulates that the European Union is based on the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as on the notion of the rule of law.
That would be an interim solution which would make it possible to work towards a binding Charter in the long term.
I am thinking of the inclusion of such rights as the right to strike, the right to work, the implicit reference to European trade unions, the entitlement to housing allowance.
Certainly, the content of this Charter must be improved.
The Charter aims to provide comprehensive protection of people's fundamental rights and different sections go completely or partly beyond the jurisdiction of the EU.
We reject the fundamental rights included in the Charter which are appropriate but which do not justify granting the EU corresponding powers or conferring on it a duty to protect or act.
The CSU's Europe group supports the horizontal provision which makes it clear that no new powers are being established for the Community or the Union.
This Charter lags some way behind the European Convention on Human Rights, and behind national conventions or treaties.
On subjects as basic as women' s rights, immigrants' rights, the right to education, the right to accommodation, the right to employment or a decent wage, this Charter is often inadequate and occasionally retrogressive.
Because social rights are fundamental rights for a Europe that respects democratic and social rights and freedoms, we champion the idea of another charter to protect workers, women, foreigners, those excluded from society, national minorities.
Because we think that the process of European integration warrants a genuine democratic public debate, there can be no political construction of Europe without social rights or democracy.
This is why I did not vote in favour of this draft Charter.
I shall be voting for an alternative charter by participating in the demonstrations in Biarritz on 13 and 14 October and in Nice on 7 December 2000. . (IT) We are aware that the process of institutionalising the Union also requires definition of the concept of European citizenship and the institution of common values such as freedom, governability and stability.
Yet we are somewhat perplexed by the combined effect which would be produced by the Charter having binding authority over the Community countries, as the European Parliament requested on 26 March of this year, and the as yet incomplete and inorganic content of even the last draft presented, despite the commendable amount of work put in.
I would indeed have like to have seen a moratorium on this Charter to enable work to continue on it, as a great many non-governmental organisations in the various countries of the European Union have proposed.
On many points this Charter lags behind the advances made regarding rights and freedoms in France and in other European Union countries, and many international texts.
I believe that it has become clear to all of us, following President Prodi's excellent speech, that the European Union's ability to reform and success in Nice are essential prerequisites for the European Union to move forward quickly.
We think that decisions need to be made in Nice on those issues which are necessary for enlargement, even if this means not addressing all those issues which remain to be resolved - and which it is desirable that we resolve - in connection with reforming the European Union.
This report needs to be viewed in a similar light.
In this report too, which I am presenting to you, there are a number of points which it is desirable that we in the European Union - but also the accession countries - address, but not all of them are conditions for accession to the European Union, because the conditions for accession to the European Union are clearly set out in the Copenhagen criteria.
The European Parliament would nevertheless like to say that accession to the European Union is conditional upon the Copenhagen criteria being satisfied in full.
It must be clear that all of these conditions have to be met.
Furthermore, it must also be clear that democracy and the rule of law are in fact the condition for negotiating and that other conditions simply have to be satisfied in the course of the negotiations, and here we do of course realise that - in the interests of the accession applicants as well as in the interests of the European Union - we will have to agree transitional arrangements in a series of sectors, as we have always done with accessions.
That is why it is also wrong at the present time to mention the names of countries which look today as though they are in a position to fulfil the requirements, because for internal political reasons a country which is in a good position today might fall back again next year, or vice versa.
That is why I should like to propose to you that from next year we in Parliament no longer present a general report at all but only country reports, to make it clear that we wish to see the negotiations proceed at differentiated paces.
I think that this is a good proposal which should be supported, and an equally good proposal is that from the European People's Party stating that if possible the first countries should be able to participate in the European Parliament elections in 2004.
I am convinced that some countries will be in a position to prepare themselves adequately within that time.
When I consider that it is already eleven years since the revolution in central and eastern Europe then we must also give these people the prospect of the process of change bearing fruit at some point.
I think therefore that holding out the prospect of accession to the people is essential, so as to encourage these countries to develop the enduring strength to push through political and economic reforms of the necessary magnitude.
The political, economic and security policy stability which the enlargement of the European Union will bring is something which I certainly do not need to mention.
On the other hand - and people hardly dare to say this - in recent years our balance of trade surplus with the accession countries has been greater than the public aid which we have granted these countries.
We have the opportunity to create a new order in which no one loses their identity and whose wealth is derived from the diversity of its people.
We will also be able to fashion an order in which war between us becomes impossible, in which people are able to discover each other in their common humanity and in which we can combine our strengths to represent our interests in the world, that is to fight for our common cause as Europeans in the world.
I feel, then, that on the basis of the work undertaken by previous presidencies and by the Commission, the French Presidency will be in a position, or so I hope, at least, to offer a quite precise overview of the accession process at the European Council in Nice.
I therefore propose, in order to make a useful contribution to this debate, to tell you quite specifically what the French Presidency is doing during these six months to achieve the results I have just mentioned.
With this in mind, let me firstly remind you that we plan to organise for each candidate country two negotiation meetings for alternate members and one at ministerial level, split into two phases, on 21 November and 5 December, back-to-back with the meetings of the General Affairs Council.
The French Presidency will immediately inform the committee which you chair, Mr Brok, of the result of these negotiations, come Tuesday afternoon, according to the tradition that has developed between us.
This means, then, that each candidacy must be assessed and shall be assessed, in short, on its own merits.
That is why, just like the European Parliament, the French Presidency wished to have access to the tracking schedules for monitoring adoption of the acquis, updated regularly, it being understood that the basic principle of the negotiations must continue to be the wholesale adoption of the acquis.
As you know, the candidates have expressed a number of requests to this effect.
This, moreover, is a sign that the accession negotiations have clearly entered a new phase and that henceforth, as the French Presidency wishes, we should go into substantive discussions.
In this respect, I should like to point out that the Council has, on the basis of an initial document from the Commission, initiated a consultation process which should enable the European Union to make progress in the negotiations.
I am, of course, thinking of the common agricultural policy and the regional development policies.
By the end of our Presidency, half of the chapters of the acquis will have been opened to negotiation.
Obviously the work carried out by each of the rapporteurs and by the parliamentary committees will serve a useful purpose in providing fuel for our own discussions.
Let me now mention the second guideline along which the Presidency hopes the enlargement process will develop in these six months.
I have just mentioned the very important technical work under way for three years now and I have also said that, with regard to at least some candidate countries, we shall very shortly have a quite precise overview of the remaining problems.
We think the time has come to take this work to a more political level by combining all the information available to us.
That is why we are organising a substantive ministerial debate, which will take place at the General Affairs Council on 20 November on the basis of the precise documents to be provided by the Commission concerning, in particular, the candidate countries' adoption of the acquis and the progress that each of them have made.
Regarding the basis of this debate, the Presidency will have the necessary elements available to enable the Heads of State and Government in Nice to have a serious discussion regarding the continuation of the enlargement process.
This too is the spirit in which the French Presidency has decided to organise two meetings of the European Conference, bringing together the 15 Member States and the 12 + 1 candidate countries - twelve that have already entered into negotiations and one candidate.
One of these meetings will be at ministerial level, on 23 November this year, in Sochaux, and the other will involve the Heads of State and Government in Nice on 7 December.
These meetings will be primarily an opportunity to inform the candidate countries of the state of progress in the reform of the institutions, which is of great interest to them as it concerns the European Union that they will be joining but also, of course, to initiate a political discussion with these countries regarding the operation of the enlarged European Union.
This date of 1 January 2003 is by no means a random choice.
The date of 1 January 2003, which is the only one on which the European Union has agreed, is, however, both for the candidates and for ourselves, an extremely ambitious objective and this is the deadline to which the Presidency will be working.
It is true, however, that the work which has been undertaken, and which we wish to boost, should make it possible, by the end of the year 2000, both to have a better appreciation of the overall balance in each of the negotiations and also, at least for the most advanced candidate countries, to clearly identify the problems to be resolved as a priority in order to bring these negotiations to a successful conclusion.
Finally, let me say a brief word on Turkey which, as far as the European Union is concerned, is now clearly part of the enlargement process and is the thirteenth candidate for accession.
At the same time, we are well aware of the continuing obstacles to this accession, starting with the issues related to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in this country.
Admittedly there has been some progress, but they are still a long way from fulfilling the Copenhagen criteria.
Enlargement is our future, on condition that the acquis communautaire and the common policies which we all value highly are not thereby weakened or watered down.
I am quite ready, of course, to follow the very important debate we are all involved in here today.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, honourable members, I welcome the opportunity for an in-depth debate on progress in and prospects for negotiations on the enlargement of the European Union.
The development of Europe has entered a phase in which, now more than ever, we need clear objectives and decisive action.
I should therefore like to establish straight away that the cornerstone which will allow the enlargement project to be completed is agreement on the institutional reforms of the EU.
A successful outcome to the Intergovernmental Conference in Nice in December will pave the way for more pro-active negotiations.
Enlargement is the only answer to the two main historical changes which we have witnessed in our lifetime.
The Soviet empire gave the impression of being stable both to the outside world and internally for decades, but this stability had long been rotten and crumbling, precisely because it was not based on democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the protection of minorities.
It is no coincidence; on the contrary, it is virtually a cast-iron rule that we only have peace and stability in Europe where these values have been put into practice and where Europe is already unified or is in the process of unifying.
Peace and stability in Europe are the basis for a happy future for all the people of Europe.
The second major change which we are witnessing and to which Europe must adjust is the meteoric speed at which the economy is moving towards a global market and global competition.
A larger community will have more weight when it comes to mastering global tasks.
The advantages are already there; they are visible and everyone stands to gain.
I am firmly convinced that, without the prospect of European integration, the systems of central and eastern Europe would not have been changed as quickly or as successfully.
But they have also done so because the prospect of membership of the European Union gives them hope of solidarity with the people of Europe and because they are being offered a firm political and economic foothold.
We are achieving high foreign trade surpluses with all these countries.
That translates into higher tax revenues, higher national insurance contributions and, most importantly, more jobs.
The forecasts for growth in the area as a whole are extremely auspicious.
The terms Luxembourg group or Helsinki group are merely technical terms in order to differentiate between the countries invited to enter into negotiations in Luxembourg in 1997 and those which did not join until Helsinki in 1999.
The Commission will be presenting its progress report for the year 2000 and a new strategy paper on 8 November.
A number of countries have made such good progress with the second economic criterion of their ability to compete in the single market that they are fast reaching the point at which they are ready for accession.
Obviously, changes in this area take longer than elsewhere.
The work of creating institutions and structures is not yet finished.
I should like to clear up a misunderstanding which sometimes creeps in when we talk of the pace of negotiations.
All outstanding chapters, with the exception of institutions and miscellaneous were opened with the countries in the Luxembourg group during the Portuguese Presidency: a total of 174.
At least 84 chapters will have been opened with the countries in the Helsinki group by the end of the French Presidency, i.e.
On 8 November, the Commission will present more detailed thoughts on the principles which should inform how we deal with derogations and how the corresponding decision-making process should be organised.
Where major, long-term investments are needed in order to attain EU standards, we must bear in mind that even the present members claimed long transitional periods in such cases.
As regards the current situation in the monetary union, I should like to remind the House that monetary union forms part of the Treaty and, hence, part of the negotiations.
I should also like to say a few words on a subject which is very close to my heart: how best to sell the project "Enlargement in the societies of the Member States and candidate countries" to the public.
We must help border regions to make use of the new opportunities and meet the new challenges.
The Commission is already working on the relevant proposals.
There will be no environmental or social dumping because the new members will have to adopt our standards.
Enlargement is also good for the level of social security in Europe.
Every year - and this is shortly to happen again, on 8 November - each candidate country awaits with bated breath the judgement of the Commission with regard to the progress made.
This process also bears the hallmarks of a technocratic process, where the political aspects can quite easily be overlooked in amongst the abundance of detail and criteria from the European Commission report.
Helmut Kohl, together with the German parliament and German politicians, have made every effort to anchor Germany in the European Union, so that earlier fears expressed by neighbouring countries with regard to a reunited Germany having too much power, have fortunately proved unfounded.
The wish of the people to end the artificial division of Europe should remain a source of inspiration to us all in the enlargement process.
The Commission report is right in pointing out that all candidate countries have experienced major reform - and must do so in future.
Let us therefore testify to the enormous efforts that these countries in Central and Eastern Europe have made.
We were right in opting for the principle of differentiation, whereby each candidate country is assessed on its own merits.
We are constantly saying that a great deal needs to be done at the IGC in Nice, that our own people have certain fears and that lengthy negotiations are still needed.
We expect the first candidate countries to join before 2004 so that they can take part in the 2004 elections and they can participate as fully-fledged members in the new IGC round on the European constitution, for example.
And finally, I would welcome a debate on transitional periods in the European Union.
Let this be a guiding example to us during the next two to three years.
Mr President, Mr Brok's report is an excellent description of the European Parliament's position.
My group will give it its unanimous support.
This debate is a further opportunity for my group to reaffirm its view that the accession of the central and eastern European countries, but also of Cyprus and Malta, is the best way of safeguarding the future for all of us in Europe both in the East and in the West.
The sooner we achieve this, the better it will be for all of us.
This is no accident, because it shows that the large groups in this House and the vast majority of this House are acting in concert where this issue of the future of the European Union is concerned, and that we all agree that we want the same thing.
We acknowledge the huge efforts which the central and eastern European countries are making to be ready for accession.
But these disparities are also related to the different starting points at which they began the process of converging with the European Union.
We know that the central and eastern European countries will not be able to meet all of the EU's standards by the day of accession.
Transitional periods are possible and necessary, for example for the free movement of capital, for the free movement of workers, for meeting certain environmental standards which require major investment and for a series of other points.
Neither can there be a transitional period for securing the external borders if we want to have open borders within the European Union.
My group would also like to emphasise one further point: the future Member States have undertaken to decommission first-generation nuclear power stations of Soviet design.
The progress and efforts being made in central and eastern Europe give us hope that the first accession treaties will still be able to be ratified in the European Parliament in this parliamentary term.
I am convinced that we can manage this and also that we should manage it.
It does presuppose, however, that the European Union will keep its own promise to be ready for enlargement from 1 January 2003.
Nice must deliver a substantial reform of the institutions of the European Union.
Yes, it is true: after 2006 it will be necessary to reform the Structural Funds and the support available under the Structural Funds.
But it is also true that in the financial perspective up to 2006 EUR 68 billion is provided for; no less, but no more either.
With this EUR 90 billion the eastern Europeans, not us, are funding tens of thousands of jobs in the European Union.
This too is part of the debate on enlargement.
And that is why we call on the Commission to table a study, a kind of Cecchini report, on what non-enlargement would cost.
This too would be a useful and important input into the public debate.
It was the Polish trade union movement Solidarnosc; it was the Hungarian Government which opened the Hungarian borders; it was the Czechoslovak Government which opened up its country.
All of them have made the reunification of Europe possible.
And today, on the German national holiday, I say it with particular emotion: they also made the reunification of my country possible.
And that is why we have the moral and historic duty to make a success of the accession of the peoples of central and eastern Europe to the European Union.
I am sure that we will manage it, because we must! (Applause) Mr President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, I am extremely pleased both with the tone of this debate today and with the level of consensus that is emerging among the key groups in the House, a consensus which my Group subscribes to.
To create a common space of freedom, security and of values by free choice is something without a parallel among democracies in all of our history.
In the largest state of the Union, the Federal Republic of Germany, only 20% say enlargement is a priority.
We need a dialogue of politicians and therefore we need to avail ourselves of all the information possibilities that Commissioner Verheugen spoke of in his very reflective and elegant speech today.
My Group has 23 visiting MPs, our "virtual MEPs", sitting in the gallery now: I welcome all of you to this debate in the House.
That is what we must accomplish in this debate, that is the result we must pursue.
It is true that in talks with the countries involved in the first stage, which have lasted two years, we have not yet got around to dealing with the most difficult issues and we have not yet seriously managed to discuss agricultural policy, Structural Funds or issues of freedom of movement.
Our job here today is to speed up the process whereby we can begin to discuss these issues.
The process has to some extent lost credibility as a result of this sort of hesitancy and groping around in the dark.
If we look at what is happening in our own Member States, we might say that quite often the remark is reiterated that, in fact, accession on the part of the new countries will only be by their own efforts.
Commissioner Verheugen mentioned corruption, but I would like to mention the fact that we cannot infect future Member States with bad administrative practice either.
We must also take our own administrative reforms very seriously if we also wish to root out corruption in future Member States, as transparency and good administration are the best guarantee that there is no corruption.
Our group believes that it is quite possible, if we are so determined, to include the first group of applicant countries already in the next European parliamentary elections, if there is determination on both sides to do so.
The next natural opportunity would be the European parliamentary elections that follow in 2009, but we would like to push for as many countries as possible joining in 2004.
Commissioner Verheugen, you may rely on the support of our group when you say you want to find real political answers to real political questions.
One quite simple way to proceed would be - as funds have been set aside anyway for five new Member States after 2002, if they happen to join the Union - to use these funds in future for this support preceding membership.
We are also in favour of a European Union that includes Russia, and which therefore includes all the countries which have built - albeit in conflicting ways - this historical, cultural, economic, social and political reality known as Europe.
The only condition would be - in our view - that they share our democratic values and respect for human rights and the rule of law.
We do not agree with Recital A where it says that Europe was divided by the Soviet occupation because, as everybody knows and as any history book will tell you, the division was a consequence of the Yalta Conference and the intransigence of Truman who was determined to follow a policy of confrontation.
Furthermore, there are six basic aspects which worry us because of the method employed.
Secondly, given the reality that the neo-liberal economic model established in Maastricht leads to the paradox of growth with more inequalities, the most likely outcome of the incorporation of these countries is greater unemployment and inequality, as is already happening.
We should change our economic model in advance so that the cost of enlargement is not even more serious social inequality.
Thirdly, the great differences between European agriculture and that of the majority of the candidate countries mean that the current common agricultural policy should have been improved in order to ensure both the viability of our agriculture and the successful completion of the agricultural reforms in those countries.
Fifthly, we also feel that the budgetary forecasts are not sufficient, since this is the first time that a major enlargement is taking place with a budgetary reduction and we only have to look at what happened in the case of the reunification of Germany to see that, in fact, a greater economic contribution is needed in order for this process to be successful.
Sixthly, we believe it has been a mistake to link enlargement in practice with the prior integration of these countries into NATO.
This damages the Union, its future independence in relation to the United States and also a common European defence and security policy, since it also introduces risks with regard to Russia and other countries.
On all these subjects, the Brok report confines itself to discussing adaptation and reform.
Because we wished to do away with borders in just a few years, because we chose to disregard the differences between nations and their respective systems, we have arrived, once more, at a sort of all or nothing, a choice between two equally dreadful evils.
Instead, this Parliament is losing itself in wearying fancies at the expense of perpetual division.
We hope that results will be achieved and that another Intergovernmental Conference will not have to be held in order to prepare adequately for enlargement.
Now, in the previous enlargement processes, particularly when Spain and Portugal joined the Union, we were in possession of a very powerful budgetary tool, for the Delors I and Delors II packages provided an impetus which made it possible for struggling economies to make up for lost time.
This political will is currently absent, and I feel that that is the central factor to be stressed in the debate on enlargement.
The way in which this almost universal feeling found expression in Central and Eastern Europe in the late 80s still merits our gratitude to this day.
The road to the European Union, towards accession, is too long for the candidates.
The EU should make the necessary institutional preparations at the earliest opportunity in readiness for a good number of new Member States, and present these countries at long last with a realistic accession strategy.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Council and the Commission have asked for the floor once again.
It was the fall of the Berlin Wall, this fantastic historic event, which created the conditions for enlargement and for European reunification and which, once again, gives perspective and meaning to this task which will go down in the history of our continent.
It is henceforth inevitable, and we should not allow new divides to appear in today' s Europe, ten years after the fall of the Berlin Wall.
We must not, on the pretext that we are making history, fail to make proper preparations for enlargement, and that means that the candidate countries must fulfil the requisite conditions: adopt the acquis communautaire and be in a position to implement it.
I am, however, also thinking of public opinion within the European Union.
Let us not close our eyes to the fact that there is a certain amount of reluctance within the European Union, and this is perhaps one of the reasons why you said, Mr Cox, that we do not talk enough about enlargement.
It is very important, and therefore I am pleased that the Commission is working on an information campaign which Commissioner Verheugen wishes to make both extensive and decentralised.
Without wishing to tell him what to do, I believe that, in order to be efficient, it must fall in line with the expectations of public opinion and take on board the practical matters of concern to public opinion: security, as we must live in a Europe which is an area of freedom, freedom of movement, but also of security for its inhabitants; employment and the fear of social dumping, which I do not share, but which we must combat by means of rational arguments; the environment, for it is clear that everything to do with the environment, particularly nuclear safety, is a real requirement for the citizens of Europe; financing and, finally, corruption.
In this information campaign, we must fight exaggerated fears, but also solve problems as they arise.
The matter of the allegiance of public opinion to the enlargement process was also highlighted by Mr Hänsch, and I think it lies at the very core of the debate.
With this in mind, I understand the feeling of impatience that some of you have - the chairmen, Mr Hänsch, Mr Brok, and Mr Poettering - who would like the countries of Central and Eastern Europe to be able to take part in the next European Parliament elections in 2004.
And on the subject, let me again remind you, bearing in mind that this comment is not, as I think I said, intended to be technical or pessimistic or restrictive - that the European Union has set a date: 1 January 2003.
It is up to the candidate countries to make the necessary efforts to achieve this, and it is up to us to assist them and also to make ourselves ready to accept them.
Once again, however, let us not indulge in too much demagoguery, even if we can understand this impatience, let us be aware that it is not very likely that many countries that are currently candidates will be able to take part in the 2004 elections, even though we might like to see this.
Let us create the conditions for success, for it is important that this enlargement is not a flash in the pan, not just a symbolic decision that will go on to create problems.
The first sine qua non, of course, is that we ourselves must be ready.
Our final date is 2002.
It would have all the negative consequences which several speakers have evoked in connection with failure in Nice.
But it is always worth asking, when someone complains that it is all taking too long, if their country has in fact supplied all the information requested, if their country has in fact already passed all the laws needed in order to adopt the acquis, if their country has in fact created all the structures needed in order to apply the acquis.
But the fact remains that, as things stand today, 3 October 2000, I cannot tell you when any single country in the accession process will be ready for accession.
I should like to refer briefly to two or three comments made during the debate.
But just to be sure that there is no misunderstanding between us: you said that these nuclear power stations must be shut down before accession takes place.
The policy was to agree with these countries on when nuclear power stations would be shut down.
That was the condition for starting negotiations.
I hope that these countries will not be refused accession until the agreed closing dates have been reached, because that would be pretty late in some cases.
I should like to make one other point: We did not - as Mr Marset Campos said - pressgang candidates into NATO at the same time.
The pressure to join NATO, the idea of joining NATO did not originate in Washington, London or anywhere else; it arose quite clearly in Warsaw, Prague and Budapest.
Which is also why they expressed their wish to join the European Union.
The last point which I would like to make concerns agriculture.
Allow me to point out that the opening of borders to agricultural and other products has already been extensively agreed in the Europe Agreements.
As far as agricultural produce is concerned, we have concluded an agreement with Poland whereby as much agricultural produce as possible - in fact nearly 100% of Polish agricultural produce - has free access to the European market even before accession and vice versa: our products have free access to the Polish market.
According to the motion presented here, the EU institutions, the Member States and the candidate countries will all help to ensure that we are ready before the European elections in 2004.
We will be ready as of a certain date.
We hope that everyone else will also be ready by that date.
In that case, it will, in my view, have failed in its mission and purpose.
The environment is the area which will constitute a stumbling block in the negotiations.
The only amendment which has already been tabled is covered in my report, but I am pleased that the Greens wish to emphasise the importance of treating citizens equally.
I am a little concerned about the way in which Parliament has handled this report on enlargement.
Imagine if such radical economic and social change had taken place in your own country in such a short space of time.
They are simply not entitled to chide this Baltic country like a stupid schoolboy.
The critical comments and the proposals in my report for urgently needed progress in administrative and social reform are designed to bring Latvia quickly and successfully into the European Union.
In the present circumstances, one thing is clear: the key to this is to be found in a transparent administration at all levels.
The basis for this must be a clear code of conduct which excludes corruption and, hence, gives citizens confidence that there is a truly independent administration taking decisions for the general good.
It is our job to continue to support Latvia with the integration of the Russian population.
Lithuania' s target date for accession is 1 January 2004.
This month, on 8 October, Lithuania will be holding parliamentary elections.
Whatever the outcome of these elections, we may safely assume that the main parties will lend their unwavering support to Lithuania' s accession to the European Union.
Lithuania has considerable potential for long-term economic growth.
There is a good chance of this, but particular efforts are still needed.
As a result, revenue from exports from Lithuania to the euro zone is down and, similarly, producers are of course facing stiffer competition on the domestic market from exporters in the euro zone.
As I said, despite a number of shortcomings and weaknesses, Lithuania has made good progress in the economic area and is only a short way away from a working market economic.
This issue requires a special effort and, in my view, cannot be dealt with purely as a problem on the fringe of the issue of the accession of Lithuania and Poland.
The multi-faceted problems and the dangers inherent in the social and economic crisis in the region will not be averted, let alone solved, by isolating it.
Poland will join the European Union when both it and the Union are ready, but it will certainly be part of the first group.
Having said this, we must not deny that there are difficulties, and my report is in fact a summary of the progress made and the difficulties encountered along the road to accession.
The Warsaw government and parliament have done their utmost in recent months to speed up the transposal of Community legislation.
The Polish authorities have also recently carried out major reforms and, although the Commission' s last annual report on Poland' s progress towards accession was somewhat negative, I hope and trust - and in this I am reassured by Commissioner Vergheugen' s words just now - that the report which is published in a few weeks time will be more encouraging.
Therefore, in order to overcome these obstacles, to resolve these issues, the Poles - like the citizens of the other candidate countries - need incentives.
We must convince the citizens of both Europe in its present form and the Europe which is to come, the Europe of the future, the enlarged Europe, that the costs - which are heavy and onerous - are still less than the benefits which will come in the immediate future.
In the past, specifying dates has served to speed up the integration process, but it was difficult to come to an agreement on this point and so we decided unanimously to refrain from discussing the dates in our individual reports but to give a - if the truth be told - rather vague indication in Mr Elmer Brok' s report.
My good wishes apart, a report on the progress of the Czech Republic towards accession to the European Union must, of course, be as objective as possible.
The objectivity of my report is certified by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
Plus, the report has been enriched by contributions from my fellow members in all the groups, whom I thank.
What is important to me - and my colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy supported me here - is that the Copenhagen criteria, which the Czechs have also acknowledged, should continue to apply and I should like the Czechs themselves to review their own legal system, if necessary page by page, in order to ascertain if there are any laws which are discriminatory.
There is that risk and I am going to try to prove the opposite is true in the case of Slovakia.
A badly prepared Slovakia cannot become a member of the European Union.
Slovakia belongs to the so-called Helsinki group and would naturally like to reach the premier division.
This is where that country should have been classified all along, but relations with the European Union were strained under the previous government.
The government has set up an anti-corruption programme which has my admiration and appreciation.
As Commissioner Verheugen said before, the fight against corruption is a key priority, because corruption undermines democracy and also deters foreign investors.
The Law on the Use of Minority Languages is a large step in the right direction but the technical implementation of this act has been inadequate.
The Commission reports have so far been very positive.
The level of improvement has even been such that Slovakia has been admitted to the exclusive club of the OESO, and I would like to extend my warmest congratulations to Slovakia on this achievement.
Over the past few years, Slovakia has developed a new dynamic which will enable the country to move towards the European Union quickly and effectively and to turn its accession into a success.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that it would be right and proper to begin my intervention by referring to the fact that, today, 3 October, we are celebrating the first ten years of German reunification.
This extraordinary event, symbolised by the fall of the Berlin wall which separated two blocks of countries and also divided one nation, to a certain extent represented a pioneering step in the process of European enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe.
The European Council, which met in Copenhagen following this reunification, decided to integrate into the European Union any associated States of Central and Eastern Europe that wished to join.
The 1993 Copenhagen Council made it clear that the accession of the countries from Central and Eastern Europe would depend on their meeting the obligations that are part and parcel of membership of the Union.
On 30 March 1998, a negotiation process was finally opened with the first group of countries, including Hungary, the country which is the subject of the progress report now under discussion in the European Parliament.
I think I can say that this report, which has been duly discussed and improved upon in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy where it received unanimous approval, describes and analyses extremely thoroughly the current stage of Hungary' s path towards accession, in its dual approach to the issue.
Firstly, Parliament has used it as a tool to assess the periodic report drafted by the Commission in 1999 on Hungary' s progress.
In this speech, I propose to highlight and discuss the six aspects of Hungary' s changing situation with a view to its accession to the European Union, which warrant specific mention.
The problems that do remain are not therefore related to the exercising or safeguarding of civil or political rights but involve fighting more effectively against some less positive aspects.
Thirdly, with regard to agriculture, which has a lower level of productivity than in the European Union, we need to ensure that the agricultural market is fully opened up to the capital that is necessary for land privatisation, for the modernisation of farms and marketing structures and for improving yields.
This issue needs to be addressed seriously but within a broader framework that covers not just Hungary but also the other candidate countries that still operate this antiquated and relatively unsafe technology.
I am therefore pleased to see that it has been addressed in Mr Brok' s general report on enlargement.
The rapporteur for Bulgaria, Mr Geoffrey Van Orden, has asked me to speak on his behalf since he has to attend the defence debate at the Conservative Party Conference in Bournemouth, England, today.
Bulgaria has made great progress in her preparations for accession.
It has already demonstrated its commitment to regional security and stability through practical and political action, as was evidenced during the Kosovo conflict when Bulgaria sided with NATO allies, possibly to the detriment of her own short term interest.
The Bulgarian Government has made efforts to overcome the problems of exclusion of the large Roma community, comprising roughly 4% of the population.
Meanwhile, in a more open society with greater opportunity, people need to be assured that those in power, whether in government or in administration, are exercising their authority for the benefit of the country as a whole.
Democracy and the market economy are vibrant forces in Bulgaria, but they are still young and need to be sustained by the confidence and trust of the whole population.
The Kozloduy nuclear power plant accounts for half the internal power generation in Bulgaria.
Safety considerations must of course remain paramount but other factors must also be taken into account in determining the country's most suitable long-term energy strategy.
If Europe is to embrace this historic opportunity for enlargement, removing the divisions created by the Soviet occupation and the communist experiment, candidate countries must be given a chance to accede within a reasonable timeframe.
Indeed, 80% of Romania's people believe that Romania belongs in the European Union.
Acute poverty has been a key problem in Romania since 1990 and under the present government, the economy is at last showing real signs of improvement.
The current Prime Minister, Mugur Isarescu, is himself on secondment from the Central Bank and therefore has excellent relationships with the international financial institutions.
Here we must remember that the collapse of the Soviet Union has left thousands of children in desperate straits throughout the Union; children whose families have given way unwillingly to pressures, children who have been institutionalised wrongly, children who are treated cruelly, children who die needlessly, children who are adopted by other countries illegally, children whose only future is to be exchanged for hard currency or household goods.
Central and Eastern Europe and the West Balkans are a prime source for the international child slave trade.
In Romania the government, with the active support of Commissioner Verheugen, the World Bank and the United Nations, have given us an opportunity to establish good doctrines and best practice in the region.
This will be reflected in the coming challenge of the OSCE which Romania adopts in January 2001 and perhaps in 2002 when Romania's probable membership of NATO will be reviewed.
We must insist on a timely, appropriate information campaign for Slovenia as well, in order to make all the citizens aware of the benefits of joining the European Union.
Parliament could contribute actively to these initiatives by opening documentation units and involving the public through schools and via their cultural, professional, social and working environments.
Parliament' s resolution of April 1999 stressed the convergence of the positions of the European Union and Slovenia on economic policy and security, and in this past year Slovenia has indeed made a major contribution to the Stability Pact for South-East Europe.
Slovenia supported the action of NATO and the Member States during the war in Kosovo and, considering the difficulty of making such a decision, this can be taken as evidence not only of the important role played by this country in the region but also of the convergence of its interests with those of the European Union.
I would like to take this opportunity to invite Commissioner Verheugen to make representations to the Commission and the Council of Europe so that the European Union can revise its position and invite the Serbian opposition, which has just won the elections, not to stay away from the second ballot, for that would be to hand Milosevic a virtual victory on a plate without a political fight, potentially providing him with dangerous grounds for remaining in power.
The report which it is my honour to submit, which was also unanimously adopted in committee, observes that the part of the territory controlled by the legal authority fulfils the Copenhagen political criteria.
Cyprus has a viable and prosperous market economy and should not encounter any particular problems in adopting the acquis communautaire.
I am convinced that Cyprus' accession could serve as a catalyst and a driving force in finding a solution to the political problem of the division of the island.
We must however also point out that the definitive solution, a fair and lasting solution, must fully comply with both the relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions, with this being, quite simply, the international law in force, and also the principles governing the European Union.
I am thinking, of course, primarily of the political principles, but also the principles of freedom of movement and of establishment.
Immediate confidence-building measures are essential as a way out of the current deadlock.
Your rapporteur therefore proposes that the series of confidence-building measures and measures to dismantle the status quo should begin with the demilitarisation of the island, something that has, in fact, been demanded by a number of Security Council resolutions since 1983.
Both its security and cultural identity will be fully respected.
The European Parliament and the European Council of Vienna, with Wolfgang Schüssel, who at the time was still serving as Austria' s foreign secretary, in the Council presidency, therefore welcomed Malta' s decision to reactivate its accession application, which had been frozen since 1996.
It was only logical for the European Council in Helsinki in December last year to give the green light for the resumption of accession negotiations with Malta when the accession negotiations were extended.
The national action plan to implement the acquis is creating the conditions needed to restructure and modernise the economy of this island republic.
Malta' s main problem is still that the accession process is judged differently by the government and by the opposition, while the European Union just wants to be sure that the accession process progresses steadily.
What is needed, therefore, is comprehensive information for the public on the political, economic and social aspects of Malta' s accession to the European Union, together with comprehensive dialogue with all sections of the population and relevant political groups and parties, in order to ensure that Malta' s accession becomes a matter of national concern and in order to pave a straight path for Malta to join the EU.
Allow me now to jump across to Poland, which is without doubt a key country in the enlargement process, not just because it is the most expansive of all the central European economies but because of its size and geopolitical position.
Poland has always been the first victim of the European conflicts which, until just recently, were played out on its territory.
It is not its fault that it has taken so long to find its way to the European Union.
With all the problems inherent in Poland' s adjustment to the European Union, we must not forget the historical dimension in the case of this country.
It makes sense, especially on the anniversary of German reunification, to remember that it was the Polish Solidarnosc movement which set the downfall of the Soviet superpower in motion 20 years ago and recently enabled Germany to unify.
But there should be no doubt about the will of the European Union to extend its zone of peace and stability to central Europe and Poland.
The tendency in the report on Poland, encouraging its politicians to speed up the harmonisation of its legislation with the EU and implement the acquis, and the successful conclusion of the agreement on the liberalisation of Polish agricultural trade a few days ago are positive signals here.
There is a debate, which is often fuelled here or there, to find out if we should examine the process for the accession of candidate countries to the Union with regard to the criteria for real convergence or for nominal convergence.
The experiences of Italy and Portugal obviously come to mind, and we can observe the same phenomenon with regard to the candidate countries, but for that a certain amount of flexibility is necessary in order to enable the necessary adjustments in the catch-up process.
Once the conditions have been fulfilled, there is no reason why either candidate countries or the countries currently members of the euro should object to candidate countries entering the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union.
These countries aspire to join the European Union according to the criteria which we have defined collectively.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has discussed the question of extending the internal market to the candidate countries in a highly committed and serious manner, because an internal market between such different economic areas as the European Union and the candidate countries is unprecedented in economic history.
According to calculations in a study carried out on behalf of the Commission, it will take 35 years to halve the difference in the standard of living between the EU and the candidate countries.
Nowhere in the world is the income differential at a border greater than between the EU and the candidate countries.
These interim solutions are not intended to set the status quo in stone but to act as intelligent buffers which adapt to changing circumstances.
We welcome the progress which the candidate countries have made in harmonising with European law and we encourage them to continue this sometimes arduous and difficult work.
European law is not just law in the books; it must also be law in action in the candidate countries.
We want to encourage the Commission to go ahead with its plan to draw up a work programme for the border regions which, as in the case of enlargement southwards, will, of course, also receive specific financial commitments.
I therefore ask for today' s resolution to clearly state to these citizens that the European Parliament hears their concerns; that way we shall also have these people' s support for the European goal of enlargement in peace and freedom.
The European Parliament must vote in favour of the accession agreements.
Allow me also to say at this point that I have a great deal of respect for the citizens of the central and eastern European countries who, ten years ago, had the courage to go into the streets and start this process.
This is a broad political field which includes highly explosive smaller issues and covering this broad spectrum for the twelve different candidate countries from central Europe, Malta and Cyprus was a huge challenge.
Allow me to comment on a few focal points.
This change places heavy demands on the people in the candidate countries but, at the same time, it guarantees their future and their children' s future.
Thirdly: supplementary measures, such as training people, social protection and hence social stability, and an active job market policy are also extremely important.
A few comments on new technologies: these countries too are moving from an industrial to an information society.
This process runs in parallel to enlargement.
If we are to have a common information area, we must make huge joint efforts in this sector.
The public sector should set an example in the central and eastern European and in the other candidate countries.
The whole European energy market will change on accession.
I too should like to stress on behalf of my committee that I am not in favour of linking accession dates to closures.
The process of change and the momentum of this process of change will cause structural adjustment difficulties on both sides.
We already have experience of both from enlargement to Spain and Portugal.
Compared with the European Union, participation in the labour market in Central and Eastern European countries is approximately five percent lower, and about twenty percent lower in the case of women.
In Romania, child mortality is, in fact, four times higher than that in the European Union.
If the acquis communautaire has not been completely transposed, or cannot be fully transposed, or if it has not been implemented in practice, on what basis will a decision then be taken as to what part of the acquis communautaire must be implemented at all events, and what part, further to research and interpretation, could be subject to a transitional period, if necessary?
This comment is addressed to the Council and of course to us, the Member States, precisely because the rates of growth in the candidate countries are in fact far lower than those forecast in 1997, when we first debated this question.
We should therefore be more conservative, Commissioner, in our future forecasts.
And, in turn, social development is needed if we are to stabilise the European social model and ensure that this model is not jeopardised.
However, we live in the real political world and are therefore bound to make provision for transitional arrangements in various political sectors in order to prevent negative frictional losses during the accession process.
In doing so, we help both the candidate countries and the Member States themselves.
For the job market and employment policy, that means that Member States bordering candidate countries need flexible, intelligent transitional arrangements in the first stage for the free movement of workers, especially border commuters, but only until such time as the difference in the standard of living in the candidate countries has improved to the point at which no migrationary movements or unrest are expected.
That means that we must use the first stage following accession to jointly iron out social differences, especially if we are to be able to jointly build up confidence-inspiring relations in border regions.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the EU' s enlargement, to include ten Eastern European countries and the two Mediterranean countries Malta and Cyprus, is upon us.
Negotiations involving the European Commission and the governments of those twelve countries are now under way.
Three major stumbling blocks in these negotiations are the environment, agriculture and free access of employees of the new countries to the labour market of the old Fifteen.
The European Commission then spelled out that the internal market rules would apply as from day one of the GDR joining the EU.
At present, the EU spends approximately EUR 500 million annually on the environment in the twelve new countries together.
This also applies to the inhuman transport of live animals to slaughterhouses.
Mr President, when Pandora opened her box all the ills of mankind were released.
That would happen with or without enlargement.
It is a long list and one that is often more honoured in the breach than in the observance by Member States.
When the European Union is enriched with many millions of Central and Eastern European citizens in a few years' time, these countries will also add as many consumers.
Although the acquis communautaire on consumer protection is relatively limited, consumer interests touch upon many other areas of policy.
That should give us food for thought, because so many of our farmers are afraid that, if we unify, we shall all go under because they are all fully paid-up agricultural economies.
We must also clarify openly and honestly in discussions with these countries, that the common agricultural policy does not imply that the same payments have to be made everywhere from day one of membership, without checking if there are price losses in the individual product segments.
All these purely agricultural matters should not obscure the fact that the following applies in the agricultural sector: Unless institutional reforms are properly regulated before the first candidate countries accede to the EU, there will be much that we are unable to regulate as we would like to.
But justice does not mean that everything is measured with the same yardstick.
The economic and social cohesion laid down in the Treaty, the basis of the policy of European solidarity, must be one of the basic elements of that construction.
However, we must not forget that, after enlargement and as a result of the low standard of living in the candidate countries, the average Community GDP is going to be reduced by at least 18%.
The immediate consequence will be that more than 20 of the current Objective 1 regions will exceed the ceiling for receiving aid - 75% of the Community average - without having increased their income in real terms.
Somebody said here today that enlargement is not a priority for 60% of the people consulted by the latest Eurobarometer.
My report on the committee' s opinion therefore talks not only of what the candidate countries have to do but also of what the European Union has to do.
My report is also bound to discuss the European Union and has to demonstrate that the European funds for regional development cannot continue to be granted on the basis of a simple distribution of money between regions or districts.
If we do not establish priorities from a continent-wide perspective and straightaway, we will waste precious time, a few very important years in the task of constructing a strong and united continent.
It is essential, ladies and gentlemen, to create a genuine European regional planning policy, of which the Structural Funds are a component, an element, but which gives rise to ambitious actions in favour of balanced and integrated development of the European area in its different dimensions.
It is necessary to develop this European plan, link it clearly to regional policy and to the reform which is going to be implemented in 2006.
The moment to move forward will perhaps arrive after the next Intergovernmental Conference.
The European Parliament and its Committee on Regional Policy, which also has competence in the field of transport and the Trans-European Networks, is aware that it is necessary to coordinate the different Community sectoral policies in favour of a global policy of regional planning.
The European Commission works on the basis of this same hypothesis and will put forward some of its proposals in the second triennial report on cohesion which it will present to Parliament in December.
We know that this is perhaps not the ideal moment politically, but there is also a need to discuss the current financial perspectives negotiated at the Berlin European Council, which do not seem to us to be sufficient to confront the challenges of the regional policy and the economic and social cohesion of an enlarged European Union.
Helmut Schmidt and Valéry Giscard d'Estaing put it another way: the only way we can create realistic and viable integration is through political will and socio-economic conditions which are almost identical.
The French Presidency changed its political presence here in the House prior to the reports on the two candidate countries of Cyprus and Malta.
Elmar Brok rightly started his intervention by saying that we all stand to benefit from enlargement, especially those of us on this side of the current external borders.
Commissioner Verheugen, you rightly stressed that it was no longer a question of if, but of how and when enlargement will take place.
The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has tried, within its remit, to take account of two sub-sectors which Mr Brok addressed and which must be borne in mind if enlargement is to be a success.
If that is our classification, then transport and tourism come in the "stick" category, because in this sector we have a huge amount of acquis and it will be a question - and I shall come back to this - of actually applying this acquis.
The TINA report covers these prospects.
The financial perspectives make provision for some of the funds.
There are two very important aspects in connection with road and rail transport which deserve special mention here: as regards road transport, which has already been liberalised and opened up to an extensive degree, care must be taken to ensure on accession that the provisions of Community employment, social, fiscal and tax legislation are actually applied in each Member State because, if they are not, this will lead to distortions of the market in the European Union and in the candidate countries which, where possible, we shall then have to spend a great deal of money rectifying.
There is a series of further points which the Regional Committee has mentioned in its report.
We could make ourselves comfortable in our little club, but its whole raison d' être would then be lost, and we should not be able to secure the large perspectives of peace, freedom and stability.
Nor shall we succeed, however, if we do not appreciate that enlargement should, first and foremost, be for the benefit not only of a few people but of all people in the candidate countries, or in any case the majority of them.
They have in fact experienced it at first hand for a very long time.
We therefore need to realise that women are much more vulnerable in this process of readjustment and therefore much more vulnerable in relation to the Union project as a whole than we have indicated up until now.
I would strongly urge the Commission to be alert to this in all its negotiations with the candidate countries.
I have already warned colleagues in Central Europe about this; when the tone sobers down, then this is only proof that we are moving from the honeymoon period into a life of domestic normality within Europe.
The President-in-Office of the Council replied that this reform cannot, of course, take place without involving the citizens.
We want an effective communication policy which enables the citizens in the European Union and in the accession countries to take part in the political debate in a meaningful manner.
Policy in this respect is still not sufficiently in tune with democratic standards.
We all know it: to play on people' s fears is an electorally useful exercise and parties which have no political goals other than gathering seats, like to indulge in manipulating people' s feelings of uncertainty.
Mr Burenstam Linder, a former Swedish colleague of mine who was an expert in this field, explained to me that any enlargement of the European Union, whenever it took place, has always resulted in an excellent cost-benefit analysis on the part of the new participants and those already in the Union.
Well, Mr President, let us spread the word that it is precisely these new opportunities arising from enlargement, to include former dictatorships and countries under totalitarian regimes, which can help us broaden our horizons.
As a result of the Intergovernmental Conference, the conditions needed in order for the European Union to be able to enlarge will be in place.
The second point concerns the setting of dates.
If there is a need to postpone the free right to acquire land and property for family use, then let us do that.
The group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is calling for negotiations with the first group of countries to be completed by the end of 2002, so that the first accessions can take place before the next European elections in 2004.
There is another reason.
Common environmental standards and social rules can only be implemented if these countries are full members.
As far as I am concerned, it is out of the question to have to use additional resources from category 8 from 2002 as part of the pre-accession strategy here.
As far as I am concerned, three criteria are more important in relation to all the problems than the not insignificant criticism which I have on individual points.
First, the democratic wish of the countries and people in question must be respected after their accession to the EU.
It is therefore urgent and imperative not to allow institutional reform of the EU or enlargement to be postponed.
I also call for individual countries to be given possible target dates.
Secondly, I am one of those who are disquieted by current neo-liberal trends in the EU.
Thirdly, acceptance of enlargement and its positive prospects for the individual countries and for the EU as a whole basically depend - and Denmark demonstrated this - on dismantling the social and democratic deficits of European policy.
Enlargement is basically a challenge for the EU itself to reform and an opportunity to steer the social, employment policy and democratic aspects of European integration as a whole.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here today to discuss the applications for membership of the European Union from twelve European countries: ten in Eastern Europe and two from the Mediterranean, Malta and Cyprus.
Prosperity is created by restoring economic freedoms and nothing else.
Once again, this constant groping around shows either that we do not know where we are going or that we know only too well and that it is too shameful to mention.
Quite rightly, the Commission has stressed the risk of quality and speed being incompatible.
I do not think so, and we therefore refuse, today, to follow you down this road which, in the long term, will do nothing but smother the hope of a lasting peace on the continent of Europe.
This applies to the candidate countries, but in fact it also applies to all current Member States.
Through enlargement, we shall be participating in the largest common market in the world, with almost 500 million people and 25 per cent of world trade.
We shall acquire an extended and stable democracy and, with it, opportunities for enduring peace on what has been a constantly war-torn continent.
Mr President, Slovenia has succeeded in achieving the majority of the short-term priority objectives of the pre-accession partnership and this positive evaluation is helping to provide fresh impetus for the negotiations.
However, with the exception of insignificant minorities, no political group is questioning the principle objective of the Slovenian policy which is to join the European Union as soon as possible.
The report on Slovenia presents us with a problem which is also part of the Czech question, the Croatian question and the situation of other nations.
The third amendment to the Slovenian document, for example, welcomes the Slovenian Government's intention to ascertain whether the laws and decrees currently in force, which date from 1943, 1944 and 1945, are in conflict with the Copenhagen criteria.
While an amendment, as we said, welcomes the Slovenian Government's intention to ascertain whether the laws are in conflict with the Copenhagen criteria, the Slovenian parliament' s Foreign Policy Committee, which has decision-making power, stresses that the bases established between 1934 and 1935, upon which Yugoslavia was created, are fundamental, and requests that the Slovenian Government firmly enforce this position in its entirety, that part of the country ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, people have spoken about a very fast timetable in the discussions on enlargement.
There is an irreconcilable conflict between these points of view.
Some have suggested that this conflict should be resolved by offering the applicant countries membership of the EEA first.
Rapid enlargement of the EU is a political inevitability.
In this way we could create preconditions for membership of many or even all the applicant countries in the next few years.
In splitting the body of EU law in two, the level of integration achieved by the present Member States could be guaranteed and cooperation could be further enhanced.
Talk about the fast accession to the Union on the part of the applicant countries is just empty words unless the conditions of membership are changed.
It is for these reasons and, more importantly, because of our own experience in Greece, that our opposition to the enlargement of the European Union is meant as an expression of brotherly solidarity to the workers and people in general in the candidate countries.
We call on them to fight for a different Europe of all the people, a Europe without this inhumane side, in which people will defend their destiny and live with each other in peace, freedom, comradeship and mutually beneficial cooperation.
As far as Cyprus is concerned, despite the fact that the Poos report contains much that is true, we feel, in addition to the foregoing, that the process of integration into the European Union and the decisions taken at Helsinki will not only fail to resolve the problem of the occupation in accordance with UN resolutions; they will legitimise the occupation and the definitive partition of the island.
I believe that the Romanian Government has problems in estimating the number of orphans who are presently in the orphanage system in that country.
In correspondence received by the European Commission delegation office in Bucharest from the Romanian Government it is estimated that there are between 100 000 and 140 000 orphans in Romania at present.
The brutality of the Ceausescu regime ensured that so many children were orphaned in Romania since the late 60s.
It is imperative that the accession negotiations between Romania and the Union detail exactly what the Romanian Government needs to do to improve the standard and quality of orphanages in that country.
I publicly commend the work of these and, in particular, the Romanian Challenge Appeal based in Birmingham and others from Ireland supported by a number of people including Daniel O'Donnell, the Irish entertainer, who has pledged GBP 1 million and has raised that in Ireland and other parts of the world.
Not only will enlargement affect human beings, it will also have an impact on the plant and animal kingdom.
Mr President, I would like to make another comment about Poland.
The Polish people believe that the country will be ready for accession with effect from 31 December 2002, and Poland has certainly made great strides since the accession negotiations started in March 1998.
There are already a number of progress reports available to us, and Parliament, which plays an important part in this process, has repeatedly made its feelings known on the subject.
Above all, the Nice Summit must clarify whether, and how, the EU, for its part, can get itself completely ready for enlargement in good time.
Mr President, let us no longer use the word enlargement, but rather talk about accession, or even better, the reunification of Europe.
The EU must pull out all the stops in order to support the candidates in these areas and not raise any new barriers, of course.
Frustration in the candidate countries is mounting because they feel the accession process is taking far too long.
If this situation does not change, the whole reunification will be up in the air.
We would then share a common goal with these countries in the common agricultural policy, and it would also enable this agricultural matter to be settled once and for all by speaking to Joschka Fischer.
Mr Poos brings a European vision to bear on the subject of Cyprus.
I think that the Poos report will set a precedent for the European Parliament and I am sure that the House will support it unanimously.
Cyprus' s heart has always beaten in time with Europe.
Cyprus will be a sort of bridge with the countries in the area.
I have no need to raise the economic dimension, it is covered thoroughly and dynamically in the Poos report and the reports by the other institutions of the European Union.
Cyprus will have no trouble adjusting to the acquis communautaire.
The Poos report notes that the State operates smoothly, respect for human rights and freedoms form the cornerstone of the social and cultural tradition of the island and the country' s social structures are, first and foremost, humane structures.
It is a natural progression for existing EU Member States and, when fully operational, will contribute significantly to the economic and social development of the entire European Union.
The audiovisual sector is very important.
We have also addressed the issue of minorities, because the integration of these minorities - including their linguistic integration - in these countries, is also of significance.
For years now, we have had links with these countries through the Tempus programme, and likewise, for a year and a half now, they have been entitled to participate fully in the educational, cultural and exchange programmes for young people.
We recently completed a study in my country, Austria - which, in point of fact, shares its borders with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Slovenia - according to which, the idea of enlargement meets with far greater approval in the border areas, where discussions are being held and there are initiatives and investments in place, than in other regions left untouched by these activities.
Of course the second form of communication we need is that between the Member States and the candidate countries, in order to convey what it is that is important from the European Union' s perspective.
It is certainly not just about having general objectives, or simply being present, because the acquis communautaire is also very important.
The social partners must become involved, as must all social groupings, so as to be able to convey to the candidate countries' own citizens what enlargement is really all about.
With that in mind, I believe we parliamentarians should do our bit to ensure that there is better communication and dialogue in future.
There has been remarkable progress in several areas, but one of the aspects which was not covered in the report was equal opportunities.
Mr President, enlargement will not be achieved in a controlled and organised way in accordance with the timetable the Commission is proposing.
Mr President, first of all, as Socialist rapporteur for the report on Romania, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report.
I believe that Romania has embraced the challenge of a transition to an open democratic market economy.
It has successfully embraced reforms which are essential to secure a more prosperous and safer future.
As both the Commission report and Baroness Nicholson's report acknowledges, some progress has been made in improving conditions for some minorities.
I also believe that the Commission wrongly defines minority rights solely in terms of the Roma and Hungarian communities.
The rights of these minorities are essential to a free, open, democratic and European Romania, but I am also particularly concerned about the rights of other minorities such as the groups listed in Article 13 of the TEU: those who suffer from discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religious belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
The accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Cyprus and Malta, provides us with a historic opportunity to unite all the nations of Europe on the basis of shared ideals, and to make the whole continent a more stable place.
As a member of the delegation to the EU-Latvia Joint Parliamentary Committee, I should also like to briefly mention this specific case, by way of example.
In the face of the twofold challenge of both the enlargement, which must enable Europe to come to terms with itself, and the institutional reform, which must increase democracy and efficiency within the institutions, the European Union now, as it often does, stands at an important turning point in its history.
The institutions, the Member States, and all of us, have to live up to this challenge, also in relation to the fears of public opinion in our own countries and to rediscover the inspiration, the ambition and the vision of the founding fathers of Europe.
In the course of the last few years, it has been possible to bring about a distinct improvement in the situation, due in no small part to the influence of the European Institutions.
These legal hurdles have now been overcome, as a result of which, many Russian-speaking citizens are now prepared to recognise the citizens' rights and duties, both in Latvia and Estonia, which are the countries worst affected.
It is a process that is having very mixed success, but it still inspires great hope, because it will mean that these citizens will also become citizens of the Union in the future, and will therefore be called upon, in a special way, to establish ties with their homeland, where their forefathers come from.
I have a shrewd idea that these citizens will become agents of cross-border cooperation in a future enlarged European Union.
There is no doubt that the diversity of cultures and peoples in Central and Eastern Europe, and in the Balkans, is, within the framework of a unified Europe, being given new opportunities, but at the same time, Europe will also need to realise that a problem such as the Roma, for example, is a problem of a nation without a country and that is our problem too.
We cannot simply pass the buck to Slovakia, Romania or the other countries.
Mr President, I have no intention of digging over old ground a month before the next progress reports are due to be published.
As shadow rapporteur for Lithuania, on behalf of my group, I would, however, like to congratulate Mrs Hoff on her report.
Those who subordinate historic decisions to petty national, or even party political considerations, will not earn their place in the history books.
Mr President, I would like to begin by talking about Bulgaria, which in recent years has made notable progress in its transition to a free market democratic society, but not without economic and social problems.
Perhaps a constructive dialogue between the government, the opposition parties and social representatives could provide a positive impetus to move things in the right direction.
This dialogue would also contribute to the creation of the necessary administrative capacity for the effective management of the country, creating structures which do not currently exist and reducing cases of corruption.
Many countries have faced similar problems at some time in their development and can advise Bulgaria in order to help it to overcome those problems it is facing at the moment.
In Bulgaria, 20% of the active population is out of work.
Bulgaria also has an important geopolitical role to play in the future of the Balkans.
Its cooperation with the international community during the Kosovo conflict, and its balanced role at that time, are of great importance for the whole region.
In fact, Bulgaria uses its position as a bridge between Central Europe and the Balkans in a way that is fruitful for everyone.
The European Union must continue to help Bulgaria in its progress towards joining the Union and, of course, to ensure that the planning of that aid becomes even more decentralised.
Firstly, that enlargement should take place hand in hand with a deepening of the Community.
Secondly, the Union should tackle enlargement with sufficient budgetary resources.
Enlargement will thereby have credibility in the eyes of those who want to be with us in the future, and credibility in the eyes of our public from this very moment.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 'from problem child to model pupil' , that is how we could characterise the determination of the Slovakian government and the Slovakian parliament to swiftly tread the path to EU membership, and to spend the past two years making every available effort to fulfil the Copenhagen criteria.
The dialogue between the social partners, the other groups within civil society, the government and parliament will play an important - and as we see it - positive part in the process.
We are particularly delighted that Slovakia has made a start on granting the Hungarian and the other minorities rights, which are gradually approaching the standards prescribed by the Council of Europe.
But differences in income among us have only grown, as has the information gap in many cases.
Mr President, the challenge facing the European Union in the 1980s was to complete the Single Market.
The challenge in 1990 was to achieve a single currency.
No country has an absolutely guaranteed right to join.
We must make sure that the countries are ready to join and in particular that they have the administrative capacity to deal with the acquis communautaire.
That is why some of us were concerned that the Czech Republic has delayed implementation of its civil service law and has slowed down its judicial reform whilst, on the other hand, Lithuania has made tremendous strides in that area, recognising the importance of administrative capacity.
Member States could do more in their twinning arrangements to assist the applicant countries in developing their administrative capacity.
Finally, it is crucial that we sell the applicant countries to the electorate of the European Union.
They are now much more modern economies, in many ways ready to take up the challenge of European Union membership, and we have to sell that idea to our citizens if they are to support enlargement in the future.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Romania will certainly not be among the countries that accede to the European Union in the first round, but it just goes to show that the Commission hit on the right strategy when it decided to put twelve countries on the same footing as negotiating partners, and then to determine, on the basis of certain criteria, which countries should become members and when.
All this is to be found in the report by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne, and on behalf of my group, I would like to thank her warmly for this report.
The democratic government has only had since 1996 to catch up on all the things that other countries were able to make an early start on, and with that in mind, it has achieved a considerable amount of success these past four years.
Allow me now to move from the general to the specific question of the last two islands in the Mediterranean which are island states, Cyprus and Malta, which have now set their cap at membership of the European Union.
From this point of view, it is here that the logic of enlargement will be judged not only on the basis of economic or other criteria, but also on the basis of respect for more general principles which should govern our perception of the future of Europe, a Europe of peace, a Europe of the people, a Europe of states, a Europe of equality and a Europe which respects human rights.
Cyprus and Malta will prove to Europe that it accepts enlargement on general terms, not for reasons of geographical symmetry, but in order to achieve the political integration of united peoples, united cultures and united prospects.
Mr President, the debate that has taken place today will be remembered as one of the most significant demonstrations of the European Parliament' s work on the enlargement process.
Despite the obvious differences in points of view, we have seen broad consensus on the fundamental aspects of the issue.
Amongst these, I would highlight the following: the full inclusion of each new country in the European Union means complete commitment, bringing together economic convergence and partnership in a political project.
Amongst the characteristics that must define the identity of the European project, the most prominent are cohesion and solidarity between Member States, democracy, the ethic of responsibility, the social dimension and equal opportunities.
Lastly, Mr President, the fact that this debate is taking place at a time when Germany is celebrating the tenth anniversary of its reunification should give us food for thought.
They will unite in a common project, which is unmistakably a project of peace between Europeans and between Europe and the rest of the world.
Mr President, I come from a country, Sweden, in which there is still quite a lot of scepticism about the EU project.
The report states that each country must accede to the EU on its own merits.
My group therefore supports the proposal to limit the transitional periods in the environmental sphere to a maximum of five years.
Nuclear power stations of first generation Soviet construction are a particular danger as far as Europe is concerned.
I have three particular nuclear power stations in mind, and they are Bohunice, Ignalina and Kosloduj.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to underestimate the importance and potential implications of this historic opportunity to unite our continent and live in peace.
As politicians, we must give this momentous process our unequivocal support, even though there are still many aspects to be discussed and negotiated.
The political vision endures.
The responsibility that we parliamentarians bear at this time must enable future generations to live in peace and freedom on our continent.
I would still much rather face the problems that have arisen as a result of opening the borders, than have to continue living with my back to the wall of the Iron Curtain, as we had to for decades.
As well as giving enlargement unequivocal support, I would stress that it should take place as soon as possible.
We must tell the candidate countries that they must make the necessary structural changes, so as to be competitive in the future market, and they must increase the number of employment opportunities available in rural areas.
The fundamental alignment of the European agricultural model and the development of the rural area will not produce a conflict of interests between the farmers of the EU and those in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
Mr President, it is essential for us to adopt a positive approach to enlargement.
We have assets allocated in the budget according to the requirements of Agenda 2000, but we have to take care that the funds we need, which are required particularly in the area of the environment, are available specifically prior to membership.
The funds have to be channelled more strongly to action preceding enlargement than is presently the case according to the proposals in Agenda 2000.
Overall the costs of enlargement have been highlighted very considerably in public debate.
I would like to add that it is also a moral duty of Western Europe: 11 years ago, the Soviet system came to an end and the countries involved turned to us in hope.
My Group announced its desire to see the first negotiations concluded by 2003, making accession possible by June 2004.
I would consider it wise to adopt a solution which is a good compromise between an enlargement process which is not too spread out over time, which would certainly prove traumatic for our institutions, and an enlargement process which takes into account the legitimate timetabling expectations of the countries.
As regard the transitional periods, I feel that we must be careful not to fall into the temptation to use them to reduce the impact of enlargement, thus detracting from the fact that the new countries belong to the European Union, in an endeavour to comply with the timetable we have set ourselves.
On the other hand, it is true that these transitional periods can, if granted appropriately and in moderation, with great transparency, balance and a sense of accountability, prove to be in the general interest of all the countries.
We can take it as read that considerable strides have been made, particularly since the last reports were published.
As Vice-President of our joint parliamentary committee with the Czech Republic, I can vouch for the fact that this is true of the Czech Republic, but I assume the same applies to a number of other States too.
The internal market is a key component in the success of enlargement and it is therefore clear to me that we must tread extremely carefully when it comes to exemptions and transitional periods.
Although the following statement by Mr Schröder only relates to the Czech Republic, I believe the same applies across the board: 'Many weaknesses that are still discernible in the Czech Republic are the legacy of decades of dictatorship.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have picked the right moment to discuss enlargement.
In this way, we might avoid having to implement as many regeneration measures at a later stage, as we are having to do in our own countries now.
It is in the interests of both sides to achieve economic and social balance during integration of the transport markets, because we are already waiting with bated breath as to the consequences of distorted competition on our roads.
The EEA Agreement is definitely no substitute for proper membership and must not leave countries in a waiting room for an eternity, from which there would be no chance of moving forward, but it could act as a sort of tool for encouraging the applicant countries, in a way that promises a reward, to implement the acquis communautaire.
This would mean greater commitment to the implementation of EU legislation than what is required in the present convergence agreements.
The EEA, which contains issues relating to the first pillar, would give businesses in the applicant countries access to the Internal Market and youth and science the right to engage in exchange programmes, but, on the other hand, would not yet oblige the EU to extend their agricultural aid schemes to these countries.
Thus, the EEA Agreement could act as a positive stimulus mainly to the economies of the applicant countries - they need growth to make their societies fit for accession - but also to the EU economy, as through economic growth we can reckon to cover as much as two thirds of the costs of enlargement, perhaps even more with the EEA model in place.
The answer is the implementation of the acquis communautaire.
Benefits and responsibilities go hand in hand.
An EEA model, which led to membership, and, at the same time, was a reward scheme, would be productive also as far as public opinion was concerned.
This holds good for both the citizens of the applicant countries and those of the present Member States.
Mr President, it is to be hoped that the fact that the issue of equal opportunities is the last point to be discussed in the report on enlargement, is no reflection of its status, although it sometimes looks that way.
The candidate countries' legislative programmes and guidelines must include implementation mechanisms that allow for equal opportunities and clearly prohibit discrimination.
We must facilitate this process through dialogue with the European Parliament and back up from experts, and through the involvement of NGOs, associations and organisations, and financial aid.
The public and private institutions in the candidate countries must strive for equal opportunities in all political spheres, and involve issues specific to women in all social, economic and cultural areas.
It is statistically proven that since the détente with countries of Eastern Europe, there has been a 10% increase in violence against women there.
Secondly, say no to the big bang idea of incorporating candidate countries simultaneously as a large group, since that would militate against the principle that each country should be admitted on its own merits.
In particular, I trust and hope that, understandable difficulties notwithstanding, the negotiated procedure with Bulgaria and Romania will proceed smoothly and without delay so that, once the necessary conditions are in place, these two Balkan countries can join the European Union, thereby consolidating progress, security and peace in south-eastern Europe as a whole.
We must accord this political process the historic importance it deserves and enter into discussion with the citizens.
The enlargement process and the Economic and Monetary Union are not just a matter for the European institutions.
I call upon the Member States and all public mandate holders and media at all levels to become more actively involved in this process, because only then will we be able to do justice to public confidence in these initiatives, the objects of which are in the interests of us all.
