Combating violence (Daphne III programme) (debate) The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by Lissy Gröner, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on the Council common position with a view to the adoption of a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing for the period 2007-2013 a specific programme to prevent and combat violence against children, young people and women and to protect victims and groups at risk (Daphne III programme) as part of the General Programme 'Fundamental Rights and Justice' (16367/1/2006 C6-0089/2007.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, standing as I do, not in a full Chamber, but in more of a family atmosphere, I rejoice that this is a good day for the millions of women, children and young people who are on the receiving end of violence, for we have adopted, in an accelerated procedure, the Daphne programme for the prevention and combating of violence and for the protection of its victims, for the 2007-2013 period as a part in its own right of the framework programme for fundamental rights and justice.
Since the first Daphne initiative in 1997, Daphne has funded around 460 projects.
I would like to make an urgent appeal for us to actually put what it says into practice in order to be able, for the space of a year, to put violence in all its forms at the centre of political activity and, I hope, see better clear-up rates achieved, particularly as regards the trafficking in human beings - women and children in particular.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Madam President, one important component of the Daphne programme is sexual violence and combating it.
It has been estimated that in Europe alone the turnover figure for trafficking in women is around EUR 200 million.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, people have encountered violence and aggression from the dawn of history down to the present day.
I would like to highlight the positive and irreplaceable role of voluntary organisations in this area.
In this respect I would also welcome moves to facilitate access to funding for voluntary organisations. (ES) Mr President, violence against women is a scourge which no democratic society can tolerate.
I agree with Mrs Gröner that we must make urgent progress in that direction. (SV) I want to thank Mrs Gröner and Commissioner Frattini for their excellent work.
What is so fantastic about Daphne is that it is the organisations' ability to try out new ideas and to take inspiration from examples of good practice that we can make use of in the fight against violence throughout the EU. (PL) Mr President, the Daphne programme was set up in 1997 and has already helped to fund over 370 projects supporting non-governmental organisations, institutions and associations working to prevent and combat violence against children, young people and women.
A budget amounting to approximately EUR 117 million is planned for Daphne III.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 22 May.
Written statements (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) Violence against women within the family is a serious social problem, which is related to the structurally disadvantaged position of women and discrimination against them that unfortunately still exists in this male-dominated society.
in writing. - (HU) I welcome the initiative whereby Parliament and the Council in a joint statement invite the Commission to consider an initiative for a European Year to combat violence against children, young people and women.
I would like to emphasise as a further positive result that the budget has been increased to nearly 117 million euro, which in comparison to the 50 million budget for Daphne II and the 20 million for Daphne I represents a significant step forward.
