I have received a request for a topical and urgent debate on the Council's proposal to change the legal basis for the European Parliament and Council regulation amending Regulation (?EC) No 218/92 on administrative cooperation in the field of indirect taxation (VAT) [C5-0103/2002 - 2000/0147(COD)].
Since this is an urgent issue, Parliament produced two reports very quickly.
The Committee believes that we should not proceed with the change of legal basis, but that the issue should be studied with the greatest urgency, in order to put an end to this discrimination and, furthermore, as Parliament has requested, in order to facilitate the use of electronic means for identifying clients, putting an end to the costs which are faced in particular by small and medium-sized businesses.
Mr President, the information on the vote on request for urgent procedure on administrative cooperation was not supplied to me in due time, or rather, it was not delivered at all, and, for that reason, I am unable to vote in favour of it.
Mr Ilgenfritz, I appreciate your request.
The reason for that is that the Council would like to decide on this matter before 1 July, which leaves us plenty of time, even if we do not decide on urgent procedure today.
Mr President, I want to raise a point of order on a very serious matter dealing with Scotch whisky.
Mr President, yesterday, in one of the Palestinian refugee camps, Ariel Sharon's troops killed twenty-two people.
Mr President, I would ask you to communicate this Parliament's indignation to the Spanish Presidency of the Council at this blatant aggression against a diplomatic representative of the European Union in the fulfilment of his duties, while he was in Palestine with the President of the Palestinian Authority, something which the Israeli authorities had prior knowledge of, as the honourable Members and the President know.
As I am sure you understand, this is not the time for an in-depth debate on the problem in the Middle East.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the budget process looks a bit different this year than previously.
In my view, this should mean that we will obtain a better political dialogue on the priorities and that the Commission's preliminary draft budget can be based on deliberations by all three institutions, not just those of the Commission itself.
However, on a number of occasions, the Committee on Budgets has had to point out that a number of remarks which the European Parliament made in various contexts did not, however, lead to the Commission's actually acting in accordance with the decisions made.
This is particularly serious in terms of areas to which political priority is given, such as regional policy assistance under the Structural Funds or aid to prioritised recipients in other parts of the world.
In reality, this has to do with confidence in the EU as an institution.
We must begin the debate on the long-term effects of enlargement, and the European Parliament wants to be involved in this debate.
We must also set in motion a debate on the principles of how we are to prepare for accession.
This will apply to pre-accession aid under heading 7 and to our own costs in terms of administrative expenditure for preparing for the interpretation, translation, buildings and premises required because of enlargement.
If nothing radical is done, we run the risk of hitting the budget ceiling as early as 2003 as well as a major risk of considerably exceeding the ceiling in 2004.
He said that the most important thing you can do with the EU budget is to make it simpler, more direct and clearer in the eyes of the people.
Let me say a few words about the most important priorities in the report.
The first is language and the right of every Member of this Parliament to be treated in the same way as all the others.
Either we must all speak the same language or each of us must be allowed to speak our own language.
The Committee on Budgets has backed what the Podestà Group calls controlled multilingualism.
If enlargement is to begin to be implemented with ten countries in January 2004, we have an incredible amount to do in the space of only 21 months.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to keep to the timetable for enlargement - which we all do - 2003 will be essentially characterised by the need to make preparations for enlargement.
In the candidate countries, assuming that negotiations have been concluded, 2003 will see the referendums being held, and, in the Member States, the processes of ratifying the Accession Treaties will be in progress, the Convention will be presenting its recommendations on Europe's future in an enlarged EU and the European institutions, their personnel and structures, will be having to make very real preparations for the increased membership after 2004, from which date they will exercise their responsibilities on behalf of a good many more people and on behalf of more Member States.
All three of the reports before us on priorities for 2003 are therefore right to highlight this essential task.
On 27 February, the Commission decided on its priorities and annual strategy for 2003.
The President of the Commission has already had the opportunity to present this strategy to Parliament, and there will be a plenary debate on it in the next part-session, in order that we may also discuss together the consequences this will have on the programme of legislation.
The Commission is proposing to make available an additional sum of approximately EUR 270 million in the coming year, that is, 2003, for these pressure points.
I think we should, in the coming months, as a matter of priority, discuss what ideas the budgetary authority have as regards further development of the budget line for the common foreign and security policy.
This will continue to be a priority for the next few years.
Still on foreign policy, I would like to mention that we - or so, at any rate, I hope - will, in 2003, be faced with a new task in respect of Cyprus.
It takes the view that its commitment to support the Barcelona process in the Mediterranean region should be reinforced, in particular by more offers of funding for the development of the private sector.
To return to preparations for enlargement, these mean for the institutions of the European Community definite additional human resources and tangible administrative measures.
We also, of course, want participation in the Structural Fund or in the Agricultural Fund to work virtually from day one, so that there is no excessive time lag.
The Commission is therefore proposing the creation of 500 non-permanent positions within itself.
Of course, we have to bear in mind the constrained position in category 5, that is, the area of administrative expenditure.
The Commission has submitted the first such 'screening' and has nonetheless come to the conclusion that, in all probability, additional resources over and above category 5 will be required in 2003 in order to fund the measures in preparation for enlargement.
One last word on the flexibility reserve: use will be made of it in any case, as, when dealing with the 2002 Budget last year, we had agreed that the last tranche from the specific restructuring programme for the Spanish and Portuguese fishing fleets would be made available in 2003.
For the first time in my parliamentary career I can honestly say I am looking forward to working with the Committee on Budgets on this year's budget.
Fourthly, we must have greater clarity in financing the CFSP - particularly the difference between administrative and operational expenditure.
Finally, we must take more effective action in the field of small arms and light weapons; and if that is to be achieved, I believe it has to be moved into the first pillar.
We have all set ourselves the goal of becoming, in eight years' time, the highest-performing and most competitive region in the world.
All I can say to that is that we urgently need to step on the gas if we are actually to achieve this objective, for our citizens' sake.
We have had a few crises in recent years, such as, for example, the support given to the former Yugoslavia, the BSE crisis, and Afghanistan.
In essence, the provisions of Basle II are quite right.
If these conditions are incapable of being fulfilled, regulations cannot be enforced.
If we want these provisions to be capable of being complied with - as we all do - then we need a Green Paper and a plan of action in good time, so that our small and medium-sized enterprises will again be able to pay their wages in 2005.
That we still have matters outstanding as regards a secure future was shown to us by 11 September.
We must look to research to make resources available for the post-2003 era.
We have four agencies, whose work we follow closely in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, and we think it important to remember that the agencies are different and should be treated differently.
That is something which needs to be considered carefully when we look at the budget for 2003.
Mr President, Commissioner Schreyer, from the point of view of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the most important aspect of the budget is the codecision issue.
We need a decision by the Convention to the effect that agricultural policy is to be included in the full codecision procedure, so as to overcome the separation of compulsory and non-compulsory resources.
Politics always has to do with money - I mean that in a positive sense - and hence it would be sensible, and, from Parliament's point of view, also in the Commission's interests, not to overdo the austerity policy on these countries.
Let me again mention the proposal by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which was, however, taken up by the Committee on Budgets, and under which we are this year instigating an INPARD and a LEADER programme, as could have been done last year.
This also shows that, after 11 September, we are dealing with concepts such as the combating and prevention of terrorism in such a way that we are taking this matter very seriously and are making our readiness clear to strengthen our own European authorities in this field such as Europol and Eurojust, and our will to be successful through them in this area.
My Committee saw as a second important point the theme of enlargement and the important issue of how we deal with borders in the first place.
Of course, we do not want people to die at them - the Home Affairs Committee is very sensitive in matters concerning the combating of illegal immigration, and looks closely at what is actually achieved in this area and how effective is the form that the measures take.
Yet, despite counter-terrorism and police efforts on the one hand and action taken by border guards on the other, there is one thing we do not want to forget under any circumstances, that, in a democracy consisting of 15 states, soon indeed to be 25, in the European Union, we also have an obligation to the people who travel to the European Union and live together with us.
It is not enough to enable them to get the hang of the programmes and the management structures as well, and then require only 3500 posts up to 2008, all of which is described as 'enlargement costs'.
I would ask them, in that event, to be honest, go home and tell their own Ministers of Finance that we need the Financial Perspective to be revised, and that enlargement is underfunded.
I wish to express my gratitude to the Commission for the position they have taken on this subject, which also expresses the view of the Group of the European People's Party.
On that point, let me observe that, as the budgetary authority, our participatory roles in the rural development programmes and in the area of traditional income aid are different and that the Commission should please bear that in mind so that it can go ahead on time.
The field of home affairs and judicial policy has, of course, see us agree, in the aftermath of the events of 11 September, to strengthen Europol and Eurojust and speed up their introduction; one of the Commission's new proposals is the expansion of civil protection in the event of emergencies.
It is not more money that we want, but its purposeful use, and we seek the resources that are needed for Europe to continue to develop in the way constantly, and rightly, called for in all their resolutions by members of the European People's Party.
For that reason our group not only supports budgetary discipline but is also strongly in favour of the Commission's programme of reform.
Accountability and result-oriented management are the key words here.
The budget for 2003 may be the last one drafted for a Union of 15 Member States.
I wish the rapporteurs for the budget every success in their future work.
Mr President, our group can support the guidelines at this stage, but will make a judgement on the overall budget later in the year, depending on the outcome of various policy debates that are of key concern to us.
Secondly, another matter related to enlargement is the reform of the common agricultural policy.
Instead of getting into a heated debate about whether or not to give the new member states direct payments, would we not do better to concentrate our energies on reforming the common agricultural policy by encouraging integrated rural development schemes and sound environmental working practices suitable not only for the existing Member States but for our applicant countries too?
The third area of concern is the funds available in category 4 (external policy).
Every year we face new international crises and we want to help solve them.
We have a duty to help solve them, but if this has to be done year after year without new money, then of course we will run out of money and will have to make difficult decisions such as cutting off aid to one poor area to help another, or spreading our aid so thinly that it does not have the desired effect anywhere.
Also in this respect, we would like to know to what extent countries which receive aid will be encouraged and enabled to tender for contracts in public works and services themselves, so as to give long-term benefits to their economies.
Mr President, the important area of focus in the draft budget for 2003 is enlargement.
That is why the Commission must propose action in next year's draft budget to ensure the implementation of political areas of focus under Section 4.
Our group also considers important the reconstruction of the Palestinian areas in the wake of the havoc wreaked by Israel.
Five political priorities have been identified: enlargement and preparation for enlargement, external assistance, internal security, reform of the institutions and reform of the Commission.
In fact, to be honest, the growing battle against the Council and the Commission itself is not over which actions we should concentrate more on, namely combating terrorism and the reform of the institutions - which are indisputable priorities; the problem arises when Parliament and the Council have different views on how these actions should be financed, when the Council refuses even to contemplate revising the financial perspective, when we continue to treat the flexibility instrument as an instrument whose use can be planned from year to year.
In my opinion, this is the principal battle that Parliament will have to fight in the coming months, a battle in which we will have to succeed in presenting a united, fighting front.
Then at horizontal level - to use a technical term - three particular needs have been identified: the need for further budgetary monitoring at technical and political level, for example by means of budgetary hearings; the need for the Commission to improve its spending capacity and, consequently, implementation considerably, in an attempt to prevent the creation of new RALs at source; lastly - what the rapporteur wanted to point out to the Commission and the Council - the fact that they are bound to consult the European Parliament on all initiatives with significant budgetary impact, particularly in the context of non-compulsory expenditure.
After all, if the negotiations run as the European Commission has envisaged, 10 countries will be joining the European Union from 2004 onwards.
The Union appears particularly sympathetic towards the Palestinians and not towards the Israeli citizens.
In particular, I would like to say a few words about the Stenmarck report, first of all to congratulate the rapporteur, and also to express my pleasure in seeing my idea accepted, that of increasing our use of the Internet and making this institution truly transparent by eventually broadcasting our debates, and even debates in our committees, in full on the Internet.
I find the concept of political balance very interesting as this basically means that employees must be chosen so as to maintain a balance between the groups.
However, to my knowledge, for the past 20 years or so, the only transfers that have taken place have been between the two main groups and, as a result of this, at least one third of the Members of Parliament did not benefit from this.
We in the European Parliament also urge the Member States to use the Structural Funds while paying more attention to transport infrastructures, in particular intermodal transport and less polluting forms of transport.
Commissioner, at this decisive point for the European Union, prior to enlargement, the Member States, with the support of the Commission, will have to achieve greater efficiency in the application of the Structural Funds with the cooperation of the regions and local groups they are destined for.
In my contribution I should like to refer to paragraph 26 of the report, which states explicitly to the Commission, on behalf of this Parliament, that we are not satisfied that development aid is sufficiently focused on poverty eradication and that we need to build on the agreed benchmark system.
The Commission has brought forward a development policy statement and it is time, through the budget, that it matched its words with deeds.
I think this is particularly relevant as we have now changed the way in which the work programme of the Commission is formulated so as to have more input from our specialised committees.
I guess it is the big spenders from the Foreign Affairs Committee who are seeing all these commitments being made and we in the Budgets Committee who are querying where the money is coming from.
We need a proper resource management discussion in this Parliament, and, particularly, we would like to see a coherent, effective and politically balanced Administration.
Secondly, insofar as the political groups are concerned, to ensure effective control of the Administration, we would like to see them strengthened.
Lastly, in terms of enlargement, we would like to be sure that in interpretation we have controlled multilingualism; that in translation, we are looking at the aspects of teleworking; and, above all, in the buildings, that we do not take on any commitments to construct new buildings until we know they are absolutely essential.
On category 4 the Commission has made proposals for a new flexibility instrument for humanitarian aid.
What we did propose - and what may be negotiated with the Council - was to use existing humanitarian aid reserves and to find wording, without changing the legislation, to make sure we can use them for the problems we find ourselves with in category 4.
The one thing we have asked the Council to do is to try and find an agreement on these two items during the July conciliation procedure.
Rather than drag them out until the conciliation procedure in November or our second reading in December, it would be beneficial to everyone if we could resolve those two issues, in principle, in July.
A split vote has been asked for on that matter and I would ask all groups to consider carefully how they will vote.
As far as I am concerned, category 4 should not contain any holy cows.
The same applies to category 5.
The Commission should check with all institutions whether it is still possible to find an amount of around 48 million that can be saved elsewhere.
As the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Terry Wynn, has said, our group also wants very specific budgetary guidelines and not a shopping list.
My group still defends the Berlin financial perspectives, but we accept the strictness of the figures, especially those referring to enlargement.
Furthermore, we must stress that there is a lack of a genuine spirit of interinstitutional cooperation in the budgetary field.
The financial Regulation or the response to Parliament's demand that the legislative and budgetary procedures be updated are two clear examples of the fact that interinstitutional cooperation is still unsatisfactory.
We expect a more positive response from the Commission and, in particular, the Council, in those two areas which are so important to our group and to the whole of Parliament.
I would like to end by mentioning an example of the opposite: the good example of interinstitutional cooperation provided by the funding of the Convention's budget, on which the three institutions have come to an agreement in order to move ahead without conflict.
Ladies and gentlemen, on this issue, the great innovation of the 2003 procedure is that heading 5 - administrative expenses - is also bursting at the seams.
I would like to avoid cheap demagoguery, amongst other things, because there are no vast numbers of officials in Brussels, where the number of bureaucrats is less than those in the municipal authorities of Berlin, Stockholm or Madrid.
And now, Mr President, we have ten candidate countries which are sharing the money intended for five, without taking account of the fact that Malta and Cyprus, on a whim of the Council, come within heading 4.
All of this should be reviewed, Mr President.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have been given the opportunity to speak on Section III of the 2003 budget, having monitored the report in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on behalf of my group, that of the European People's Party.
I therefore want primarily to set out the concerns behind the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development's amendments to this report by Mr Färm, whom I will take this opportunity of warmly thanking for his work.
Today we are not discussing the 2003 budget, but the budget guidelines which express our fundamental thinking, and I am here to present that of my group in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Fourthly, and - for us - most importantly, the 2003 Budget is not to be used to prejudge the mid-term review of Agenda 2000.
In this report, we do not want agricultural reform right now.
The resolutions on Agenda 2000 are for us the binding foundation.
The agricultural budget must not become a quarry for every kind of desirable commodity, but must set forth a reliable agricultural policy option.
Mr President, 2003 will be a key year in terms of preparation for enlargement.
Even more fundamentally, this runs in direct contradiction to the emphasis that the Committee on Budgets has put in this report, on the staff appointment or promotion always being based on ability and merit.
This also runs in direct contradiction to the emphasis in the report on developing the Podestà report further with regard to the linguistic regime for enlargement.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate rapporteur Färm on his initial ideas.
However, as the PPE-DE's shadow rapporteur for fisheries, I do regret that the Group of the Party of European Socialists has not decided to issue a report on the fisheries budget at this stage.
As a result, less than EUR 200 million were set aside for the regions in Spain and Portugal.
It is also important to find out how the programme in Spain and Portugal will be implemented in 2003.
This is also in anticipation of the discussion on the Green Paper and the implementation of existing programmes.
The report rightly focuses on both social integration and the importance of ensuring dynamic economic growth.
Argentina's current situation raises disturbing questions regarding the future of the country, a land of immigration which, in the past, has absorbed thousands upon thousands of citizens from all over Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, in view of the initial positions of the Council and the Commission, this budgetary procedure deals with the challenge of being capable of contributing to the historic task of enlargement and funding the reform of the working methods of our institutions.
The reports by Mr Färm and Mr Stenmarck reflect Parliament's concerns and priorities in relation to these issues and I therefore join in congratulating them on their excellent work.
And, before mentioning other aspects, I would like to thank the Commissioner for her expressed commitment for 2003 to fund the last stage of the structuring programme for the fishing fleets.
Furthermore, the Union's commitments in external aid and the continuous demands of the security and defence policy must receive a budgetary response compatible with the rights of Parliament and the financial framework in force.
In this respect, we must carefully analyse the Commission's proposal on the creation of a new budgetary mechanism to confront the implications of the crisis.
It is therefore necessary to have detailed knowledge of the final amount resulting from the non-execution of the spending commitments and, likewise, to know the evaluations necessary in the medium term of the multiannual commitments of policies funded by means of heading 3.
This could provide us with a margin for flexibility in order to more efficiently adapt political priorities to the available resources.
Finally, I would point out that the citizens have offered an historic example of confidence by accepting the euro without hesitation and they have shown us the way forward.
Mr President, I would just like to go over again a number of remarks made in the very interesting discussion on the priorities for the budget year 2003.
It is with regret that we note here that the new Structural Fund programmes have taken longer to implement than the Financial Perspective had originally envisaged.
Budget technique does not, unfortunately, make it possible to use savings in any one sector to fund new foreign policy requirements or the preparation of the institutions for enlargement.
With reference to enlargement, I would once again like to clarify that what financial planning provided for the financing of new Member States in 2003 was provided exclusively for that purpose.
Let me again point out that, as soon as enlargement is completed, new resources will be allocated to administration.
It is the citizens of the new Member States, above all, who are entitled to European institutions that are prepared and ready to make a success of enlargement.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
Mr President, do we want a truly European electricity market offering real competition and high-quality services to European industries and citizens?
If we want more from Barcelona than a poor compromise cobbling together 15 national views, then we in the European Parliament need to be more ambitious.
We must ensure that the cost of electricity is fair and transparent and is not influenced by the status quo and the power of existing utilities.
This is a test case which will establish the direction in which we want to take the new electricity market - forwards to greater transparency, or backwards to the days where national incumbents dominated the market.
There can be no fair competition without powerful and independent regulatory bodies.
The role and powers of regulatory authorities must be increased and their scope broadened in order to match the growing economic power of large utilities.
In Spain and Germany duopolies dominate the market, while in France EDF remains unchallenged on the domestic market.
This dominant position can not only influence government policy too greatly, but also prevent new entrants from accessing the market.
E.ON, RWE and EDF are buying up in other countries using money from decommissioning funds in their own countries.
Opening up the market must include measures to increase the powers of small consumers.
The UK's Energywatch has been extremely effective in bringing down prices for small and large consumers alike.
I have just said that we are going to change the structures of the market.
That is still much more the case in the market for gas than in the market for electricity.
The open market that we want is not a matter of 'laissez-faire' or of everyone doing as they please.
We need rules for all the participants in this integrated market, rules that they can make sense of, rules that they can apply in a similar manner.
Our problem is now that we have, of course, 15 different Member States, and the structures of these 15 Member States differ widely.
How the institutions and authorities in a Member State then guarantee that this happens is a matter for the Member State itself.
On the whole, we produce electricity ourselves in the internal market.
I believe that, from the competition and competitiveness angle, we will have the important task of introducing competition among producers.
Mr Rapkay, I share your unease about how much time we have to spend on such an important matter.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to address cross-border trade in electricity.
The committee is not proposing to change the competences in the comitology procedure or in the fora.
These freedoms will only be implemented once all electricity and gas consumers are able to select their suppliers from across the EU.
Finally, any delay in opening up these markets will deter private companies and foreign investment in the energy sector and in the European Union in general and will not therefore increase employment, which is supposed to be the ultimate objective.
With regard to the gas directive, the great importance of effective and non-discriminatory access to natural gas production markets for all operators in the European energy industry should be underlined.
By extending the principles of the internal energy market to countries which possess raw materials, producer countries can be developed and the internal market objectives met.
Mr President, the completion of the internal market in electricity and natural gas is a wonderful opportunity for further development in the European Union in terms of the economy, the environment and also society.
The rapporteurs recognised this and have extended the Commission proposal to make it more forward-looking.
Slowly but surely, more and more people are realising that the future lies in renewable sources of energy.
That is why we need to lay down some ground rules for these renewable sources of energy.
This is a new concept which has been accepted here for the first time.
We need fair transmission charges for all sources of energy and in a free market we also need the primary energy sources to be labelled.
On today's agenda is a fresh step for Parliament in the process of total liberalisation.
We would therefore make an urgent appeal to the Commissioner and the Member States to ensure that this is achieved in Barcelona and that we do not try to frustrate the process, as we usually do - and you know which Member State I am referring to.
Secondly, we need to ensure that the role of the supervisors is framed in such a manner that we ultimately work towards a single European market.
This is why Amendments Nos 53 and 130 to Article 6(1) of the directive are of prime importance.
Allow me to say at this stage that the PPE-DE Group will request a split vote for Amendment No 69 and will withdraw Amendment No 181, so that there will be no question of negotiated third-party access.
In my opinion, the debate or discussion about these directives and regulations has been a good example of how together we can get to grips with a complicated issue at least enough to know where we concur and where our views differ.
I am also in favour of our establishing unrestricted competition.
We are not only opening up the market in gas and electricity, we are also setting the conditions - the environmental and social conditions - under which this will take place, or we are leaving it up to the Member States to do so by enacting their own regulations.
The opening up of the energy markets is also a fundamental prerequisite for the functioning of the Kyoto Protocol.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all the Member States have decided to create a large market for electricity and gas.
Their sole objective is to speed up liberalisation and create a level playing field.
Claude Turmes and Bernhard Rapkay have carried out significant work to this end.
That is the raison d'être of our strategic Amendment No 177 which aims to oblige the Member States to fulfil both their obligations regarding competition and increased, more effective obligations of general interest.
With regard to the obligation on competition, strong pressure is being exerted in countries like France or Germany, where the traditional operators are powerful and well-established.
Mr President, at the outset I would like to congratulate both rapporteurs for their tremendous work on this very important piece of legislation.
Completion of the internal market in electricity and gas is something which will impact on each and every one of the 370 million consumers right across the European Union.
As co-legislators in this area, we have a great responsibility to get things right and to ensure that the end result is one which brings about a fair deal for all.
Formal opening of the Irish electricity market has exceeded the requirements of Directive 96/62/EC.
In conclusion, I believe that efficient, cheap and sustainable energy production is a key element in achieving our goal.
Mr President, Commissioner, the good work carried out by the rapporteurs should enable Parliament to adopt a favourable position on the laborious attempt to achieve full liberalisation of the energy market in Europe, in the interest of businesses and consumers.
In the very brief amount of time available to me, I would like to confirm our support for the more stringent measures proposed by the Commission - Article 86 of the Treaty - and push for a majority vote.
The present situation is a flawed and inequitable market.
I have to regret that one rapporteur has chosen to introduce too much detail in amendments and tried to over-elaborate some of the measures, for example, the question of the detail demanded on energy bills.
Finally, I would like to commend the proposed amendments on establishing a committee of European energy regulators so as to improve cooperation and coordination in implementing the regulation on cross-border trading.
Many Member States have actually become expert at protecting their markets, monopolies and cartels.
My group is satisfied with the basic approach outlined in Mr Mombaur's report.
We clearly highlighted this in the end in the framework legislation for the telecommunications sector, and it will benefit consumers in Europe.
Commissioner, I should like to bring three points to your attention.
Mr President, underlying this report is the decision to liberalise the internal energy market through the privatisation of the public electricity and gas sectors that still exist in the European Union.
Failing to heed negative experiences of similar processes, as in the case of California, for example, the report insists on the need to open up and liberalise these strategic sectors, and to make them more competitive in order to satisfy the interests of various economic groups, even with the knowledge that they are thereby endangering fundamental aspects of a universal public service: the right to the supply of high-quality energy at a reasonable price and the commitment to develop alternative and renewable forms of energy.
Although these reports express some concern about universal access, minimum environmental rules, information and guaranteeing consumer choice and security of supply in every country, the fact is that taking the route towards the liberalisation and total opening up of the market will undermine these concerns.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as early as March 2000 the Lisbon Council advocated liberalisation of the gas and electricity sectors.
The Commission tabled a comprehensive proposal to make this desire a reality.
The Committee also beefs up the role of the independent regulatory authorities and counters possible distortions of competition with provisions on ownership unbundling.
And directives in this respect were adopted as early as 1994 and 1995, but there are still Member States that keep their markets sealed from new suppliers, France naturally taking the crown, despite the fact that the Sun King has been long dead and buried.
I therefore hope that the Council in Barcelona will at long last take decisive action and will take liberalisation seriously, for it already agreed in Lisbon that Europe should become the world's most dynamic, competitive and knowledge-based economy.
Following in the footsteps of air transport, telecommunications, rail transport and postal services, it is now the turn of the energy sector to suffer market dictatorship in the form of total openness to competition, in 2003 for electricity and 2004 for gas.
As far as the workers are concerned, we have seen significant job losses: 300 000 have already been lost in this sector in Europe.
In particular, for instance, we do not want the final disposal of nuclear waste to be cross-subsidised from other sectors.
We also want a universal service and compliance with public service and environmental obligations; this will of course be achieved through public calls for tender, so that good service is guaranteed and efficiency is central.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are going to vote on three reports by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy which are crucial to the forthcoming Barcelona Summit.
They are essential to compliance with the Lisbon objectives if we really want to build the most competitive economy in the world, and they are also essential to the liberalisation of the internal market.
As Chairman, I have done everything in my power so that we may vote on them before Barcelona.
The credibility of the European Parliament was at stake and we did not want the European Parliament to be an easy pretext for possible failure.
It is a crucial test for Barcelona and the European Parliament has been a match for the circumstances.
To sum up, the only ones who stand to gain from the new arrangements are the large monopolies, which will penetrate the markets still further, with the help of the regulation on cross-border transactions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that mention must be made of the good work carried out in preparation for this debate, especially in view of the decisions to be taken later on by the Council and the Commission, as well as Parliament's future input.
There are examples of this in Italy: we have two great structures, excessive, unjustified strongholds - ENEL and ENI - which have played a highly egotistical and, in some cases, parasitical role.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the energy sector is not like other sectors, and that is why the discussion cannot be restricted to the question of opening up to competition and the associated timetable.
This sector must therefore be closely monitored and a balance maintained between market mechanisms and other imperatives and factors in market organisation.
However, when we look at the situation in the various countries, we see that the legislative framework is one thing and the reality of opening is another.
Germany, for example, is in theory 100% open, but less than 3% of its electricity is imported.
From this perspective, the date of 1 January 2003 put forward by the Commission for opening with regard to all non-domestic customers is unrealistic and does not even allow time for countries to adopt transposing legislation, where necessary.
That is why the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has suggested a period of 24 months after adoption of the directive.
Lastly, with regard to domestic customers, households, we must take account of the fact that in some countries, equal tariffs are a key element of public services.
Whether the customer lives in the country, in an isolated valley or in a town, they are charged the same price per kW/hour.
That is why we propose that those Member States who so wish be allowed to retain a sector which is not open to competition so that equal tariffs remain possible and equal access to public energy services continues to be a reality in our countries.
Until that situation is reached, the idea of an internal market in energy is a political mirage.
When the Commission's proposals first came out, it was the view of the British Government that they could be accepted as they stood.
I should like to make two points.
On independent regulation, we regard this as essential if an internal market is to develop, because it provides the predictability and stability which consumers and new entrants need; but it should be for the Member State to reflect the different structures of national markets.
Mr President, reading the newspapers one would think that the European Council in Barcelona is going to settle every detail of this legislation.
Mr President, as usual, very sincerely meant congratulations to the three rapporteurs involved in this package.
Liberalisation of gas and electricity is certainly part of the Lisbon Process, but this does not mean a free-for-all in the electricity and gas markets.
And I would like to emphasise that research and development should be a public service obligation, because in a free market research is one of the areas that is most at risk.
We have amendments on subjects such as renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, and combined heat and power.
We must have joined-up thinking, and there must be references in this directive to those areas which may be covered by other directives but which must also be mentioned here.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to say that I believe that the full realisation of the internal energy market is the most important economic measure to be dealt with at the Barcelona European Council.
Secondly, I would like to point out our intended objectives with these reports.
This objective is based on providing the European economy with all the elements of a market, while guaranteeing our citizens a series of rights which we consider to be basic within the model of society, the balances, solidarities and cohesion we want to create.
It is therefore a question of offering freedom of choice to industrial and commercial clients on specific dates, namely 2003 and 2004, respectively, for electricity and for gas and, for domestic users, from 2005.
Consumers and producers must be able to access transport and distribution networks without discrimination and, to this end, the proposal provides for systems of transport and distribution which are separate - from a legal point of view - from the production and supply of gas and electricity.
Each of the States of the Union will create an independent regulatory authority with a common minimum level of competences.
There is another series of necessary measures created specifically in response to the requests of the Stockholm European Council.
Amongst them, the first report on the creation of the internal market in gas and electricity which clearly indicated the distortions caused by the differing degrees of openness and the differences between the structural measures adopted.
Mr President, I believe that, together with the directive on the promotion of electricity generated from renewable energy sources, the proposal on energy efficiency in buildings, the political commitment to guarantee the environmental aspects of our energy consumption, and the proposal on biofuels, we are making a real effort to combine the rules for the creation of the internal markets in energy and to improve their operation with the improvement in energy efficiency and the environmental aspects of energy in Europe.
However, in general we all agree with the spirit and objectives in terms of making these modifications to the current directives in force.
In general terms, the Commission is in favour of the amendments that have been tabled, the majority of which are acceptable, either totally - with some changes to their wording - or partially.
I am not only talking about the amendments which improve the situation of consumers and the amendments relating to a better definition of the public service aspects (always taking account of subsidiarity aspects, of course), but also the amendments which formalise cooperation between regulatory bodies and those relating to the competences of the regulatory authorities.
The Commission, however, has certain reservations with regard to the amendments relating to non-discriminatory access to the network, which is essential to guaranteeing fair competition in the gas and electricity sectors.
We therefore propose certain measures in this context: to legally separate the operators of the networks - an approach accepted by Parliament - and to establish access to the network on the basis of previously published charges, thereby replacing access on a negotiated basis.
Therefore, and with a view to dealing with this issue appropriately, the Commission is committed to presenting a proposal in the coming months, before the conclusion of the negotiation of this directive and this Regulation in Parliament.
We must be extremely rigorous in terms of the availability of these funds, within the corresponding framework, and we are studying the best legal formula for producing a proposal in this regard.
The Commission can support the majority of the amendments proposed, some with slight modifications.
Next I will mention the amendments which we find difficult to accept.
Amendment No 19, for example, which proposes that the procedure of the Regulation Committee laid down in the Regulation should only be applicable for four years and that, after this period, Parliament and the Council should once again study the issue on the basis of the Commission proposal.
I know that Parliament has considered this distinction clause in the context of the regulations on financial services and of the Lamfalussy report, but President Prodi, on 5 February, in his statement to this House, clearly said that that case could not set a precedent.
Nevertheless, I can assure you that, in accordance with the agreement of the European Parliament and the Commission on the methods for applying comitology, the Commission will put all its efforts into ensuring the greatest possible transparency in it relations with Parliament in the context of the procedure laid down in the Regulation on access to the network for the cross-border trade in electricity.
Amendments Nos 5, 6, 7, 16, 20, 22, 23, 24 and 25 seek to remove all the references in the Regulation to the regulatory authorities of the Member States, and suggest a more neutral expression such as 'competent authority'.
I do not believe these amendments to be appropriate since the Commission's policy in this field is based on the principle that all States must designate one or several regulatory authorities, which are intended to play an essential role in the context of the implementation of the Regulation.
The amendments relating to the treatment to be given to integrated generation in national charging systems are not acceptable either.
National charges should be harmonised on the global basis of the charging structure, bearing in mind the specific characteristics of the national networks.
We cannot therefore accept this amendment either.
The promotion of cross-border trade is necessary in any event, regardless of the adoption of proposed amendments to the directive on electricity and gas currently in force.
In conclusion, Mr President, the vote on these texts is of the greatest importance.
When I started to speak, just three Members were in the Chamber and the Commissioner had not had the time to join us because this House is unable to set a clear time for the start of the debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 12 noon today.
The pattern of the voting list is slightly convoluted because the text is complicated and what is proposed deals with drafting points.
that we should vote against the second half of Amendment No 3 and against Amendment No 6.
Mr President, I would like to confirm what Lord Inglewood said: the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote against the second part of Amendment No 3 and against Amendment No 6.
Mr President, I propose that the vote on the legislative resolution be postponed.
Report Färm (A5-0068/2002) Mr President, there is always a great deal to say about the Commission's budget, as there is about Parliament and all the other institutions' budgets.
However, I will restrict myself to saying that, although I voted for the motion, I hope that the Commission will set money aside for informing all the workers who live in the European Union and the candidate countries about their pension rights.
In actual fact, a great many citizens are unfamiliar with the rules and laws of the State and do not know how to obtain all their rights.
Furthermore, I hope that we will soon have a European television channel broadcasting the work of Parliament including what happens in this Chamber during explanations of vote such as this.
Judging by the guidelines contained in the Färm report, it does not look as if the 2003 budget is going to be very different to preceding budgets, which means that, once again, we will have a disputed budget for the sake of the Stability Pact.
This year, the rapporteur has given priority to enlargement, but has become bogged down in administrative issues without questioning the very limited proposals presented by the Commission for financing enlargement, without guaranteeing the transfers of appropriations to prepare for accession in 2002 and 2003, insisting instead on the priority of financing the communitarisation of the third pillar - justice and home affairs - supporting an increase in appropriations for Europol, for Eurojust and for the external borders, but ignoring fundamental social areas, specifically employment and improving living conditions.
He is vague on the financial needs of heading 4 - external policy - when the priorities are mounting up, in areas such as the Palestinian Territories, Timor, Afghanistan, Argentina, the Balkans, the Mediterranean and humanitarian aid, without any additional resources.
The rapporteur wavers between the redistribution of appropriations and their increase without ever being clear.
Hence our position against the report. . (NL) The European Parliament is free to discuss anything, but a real parliament has the right of initiative and the last word in the forming of coalitions, in legislation and the budget.
In the EU, a distinction is drawn between compulsory and non-compulsory expenses, and the extensive agricultural budget falls outside the parliamentary remit.
However, it is their colleagues in the Council and the Commission who are responsible for this crazy situation and who insist that everything stays exactly the same.
Parliament has no business, certainly not in a paragraph hidden away in a report on the budget, to call this decision into question either directly or indirectly.
The only authority on this matter is, and remains, the European Council and, as far as I know, it is still abiding by its 1992 decision. . (FR) Since part of paragraph 15 has been retained, I voted for the Stenmarck report on the European Parliament's preliminary draft estimates for 2003.
Apart from this general reservation - and after five years these provisions will be reviewed - we as a committee believe that we should implement the international agreements reached in Montreal, along with this approach of finding a balanced solution for each airport.
Because of the 1 April limit, we had to process the legislation quickly, and I have to say that our efforts have been very successful.
We incorporated this in our report and held an informal trilogue procedure with the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, thus avoiding any dispute between the environment and transport areas in this House.
We have succeeded in changing the definition of the city airport.
However, we did not get too carried away, so as to avoid a conflict with the Americans, and have said, city airports are airports as defined in Annex I.
This gives us the possibility of introducing more stringent rules on noise protection in particularly noisy areas and at particularly noisy airports.
In difficult situations we can use the definition of the city airport as a way out.
Secondly - and this is also for all of the environmentally-friendly Members of this House - we have obtained the Council's agreement that we already state now, in respect of the review in five years' time, that after these five years we should seek to establish a more stringent limit than -5.
I would earnestly request that tomorrow the whole House convincingly approve the measures that we negotiated with the Council with the help of the Commission's conciliation services, because then we can conclude this difficult issue - which is so important in terms of foreign policy - at first reading.
Mr President, the topic of aircraft noise often gives rise to conflicts, conflicts between the European Union and the United States and conflicts among European Parliament committees.
The solution to the conflict with the United States is very close.
Thirdly, the possibility has been created to ban subsequent phases of aircraft after five years.
Environmental considerations, in particular, must be integrated in transport policy in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty.
This is important in order to solve a long, drawn-out conflict with the United States involving the Hushkits Regulation.
Finally, as far as the conflict between EP committees is concerned, I have no choice but to conclude that this report has wrongly been designated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Mr President, noise pollution around airports is always an emotive subject for the citizens who live near them, and Mr Jarzembowski who lives in Hamburg, knows this all too well.
There are two types of measures.
If we consider the effects which the new measures that were agreed in ICAO context worldwide have had, not only on the European population but also on the populations in all other cities across the world, then I believe it was a useful exercise.
And I wish you, Commissioner, every success.
Secondly, the necessary operational restrictions should take effect as quickly as possible, more quickly in our view than the Commission has proposed - this is more a reflection of the result of the vote in my group than my own personal views.
Mr President, Commissioner, is what we have ideal?
However, in the current circumstances, this is the best we can commit to paper, in my view.
We held a debate on whether to opt for an international, global or European solution.
If all Member States have accepted this standard within the ICAO, it seems necessary to me that we, as a Community institution, ensure that this standard becomes law in the Union.
Parliament must, therefore, approve this proposal, so that there is a legislative document by 1 April, upon which we can withdraw the hushkits directive.
Mr President, I do not share the enthusiasm of the majority of our fellow Members for the result obtained with regard to this directive.
The proposal repeals the Council regulation that should have entered into force on 1 April 2002 preventing hushkit planes, old planes fitted with muffling devices, but whose overall performance was recognised as insufficient, from landing.
Nevertheless, we are still in a situation where the Member States who will not do anything to assist in combating noise pollution in the vicinity of their airports will in fact be practising a dumping policy which could increase over the next few years insofar as we are currently experiencing a significant rise in air traffic.
I would like to point out in this respect that, a few months ago, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in favour of people living near Heathrow airport in London who were complaining of nocturnal noise, and the right to a healthy environment and the right to sleep were recognised as human rights.
I therefore believe that in keeping with this decision of the Court of Human Rights, the Commission must quickly take a new initiative, a directive that not only restricts noise in the vicinity of airports, but lays down standards on noise exposure, thus allowing for harmony within the European Union.
The key to those proposals was to take the balanced approach.
Speaking as someone who has lived close to London Heathrow, the busiest international airport in the world, for 30 years, and acknowledging the prosperity and jobs which flow from a successful industry, I find it extremely disappointing that perhaps some Members would prefer to score party political points rather than take on board the broader picture of what is required.
However, if we are to improve congestion and noise pollution for the future, I suggest that Member States and local authorities take responsibility for proper land use planning and think carefully before using the aviation industry as a scapegoat for their failures.
We introduced the hushkits regulation which suspended the use of aircraft not retrospectively fitted with noise suppressors - the hushkits starting in April 2002.
ICAO proposed new and better noise standards and guidance on sensible operating restrictions around airports.
We are now asked though to rescind our regulation and to accept this new directive, which is quite clearly much watered-down, and to expect ICAO to agree on some new international standards as soon as possible.
Therefore, if the Commission does finally get around to sending us a report in five years' time, we might just get a chance to see what this muddled arrangement has produced.
Answer: the United States administration, both under Clinton and Bush.
Europe had already decided that these aircraft, fitted with a so-called hushkit, should be phased out after 1 April.
However, the US Government, which sells high numbers of these hushkits to airline companies in developing countries, has lobbied hard and effectively.
Instead of a general ban for the whole of Europe, the European Commission now wants each airport to document the fact that it does not want these noisy aircraft.
From London to Manchester, from Maastricht to Bierset.
So I welcome this adoption of an ICAO balanced approach to air traffic noise reduction as it amounts to a fundamental system change for the European Union.
This Commission proposal states that noise reduction efforts are now to be assessed on the basis of individual airports, with a view to imposing operating restrictions on aircraft.
However, as others have said, the effectiveness or otherwise of this proposal as a means of reducing air traffic noise will only be known after the Commission has submitted its report on its findings in over five years' time.
It is imperative for all of us in this House, if possible, to avoid a second reading.
Like most Members in this House, I give this proposal my support, but it is only qualified support.
I have serious problems with a system which relies on informal negotiations between individual Members of this House, the Council and the Commission.
We must find some fast-track codecision procedure which can be used in these circumstances and fully respects the role of the Members of this House.
And while we have a proposal here that the Commission will report back to us in five years' time as to whether we are achieving what we set out to achieve, I hope that the Commission will come back here each year and tell us in what direction things are moving - whether the proposals are working, whether things are getting better or indeed in some cases getting worse - so that we can introduce corrective actions, rather than waiting for five years before beginning to take alternative steps.
I realise that a number of amendments which are good amendments in their own right are going to be rejected here tomorrow, but the Commission and Council should bear in mind that they are being rejected in order to facilitate this agreement, not because we disagree with them.
Mr President, Mrs de Palacio, pollution abatement is a noble but difficult struggle, a delicate balance between economic prosperity and human welfare.
Nevertheless, health and the economy are inseparable companions in the long run.
There were many amendments tabled despite the fact that we are in danger of a trade dispute with the United States of America if we do not use this directive to quash the hushkit regulation before its entry into force.
I strongly condemn the new US steel tariffs, but, in spite of that, Europe must not pick a quarrel.
The best way to bring down noise levels, however, is by an international agreement on a reduction in aircraft noise.
Mr President, I am not going to insist on identifying the precedents which have led us to today's discussion, which I hope will lead to a positive result tomorrow, because we all know what has happened following the negative attitude of a series of Member States of the ICAO and we all want to make progress in the fight against noise at airports.
We are also aware of the decision which the European Union adopted in relation to a certain type of modified aircraft which conforms to Chapter III and the circumstances which have led us to the current situation.
We must understand that we are part of a multilateral system; that, thanks to the decision of the European Union, things have moved on within the ICAO and the situation has improved and that we now have a proposal which offers us clear opportunities to improve the situation of airports in the future.
I perfectly understand that we have many amendments and that, if we did not have international commitments which are binding of all of us, the honourable Members would probably like to support them.
We could not reduce the number of movements to 30 000 since, amongst other things, it would contradict the limit laid down in the directive on environmental noise, which this very Parliament approved recently.
I believe that the definition of the competent authority has improved and allows for the appropriate margins.
This document has been agreed at international level and we would not accept any less rigorous document.
With regard to the obligation to carry out analysis, the amount of information has been an issue on which a careful balance has been achieved: Article 5, paragraphs 1 and 2.
Even in the event that an airport does not propose significant operative restrictions, we believe that it will be to their benefit to make as complete an analysis as possible in order to make decisions in full knowledge of the facts.
We have studied very carefully the rhythm which the airports could impose with the withdrawal of aircraft from the fleets in question and we are convinced that this reference should be made according to movements.
With regard to the developing countries, the Commission has carried out a detailed study which has concluded that these countries have acted in a responsible way by reducing their fleets of Chapter II aircraft and we applaud this action.
The Commission would also like to express its support for a general exemption applicable to genuinely exceptional services, for humanitarian reasons or maintenance work which cannot be carried out elsewhere for example.
Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that decisions are taken in a coherent way throughout the Community is a fundamental step forwards.
This means that we have the opportunity to replace the current patchwork of restrictions with prepared measures within a coherent framework of analysis, in such a way that similar solutions will be applied in European airports which have similar problems.
I believe that we have an applicable directive which conforms to our international obligations and which, furthermore, will contribute to improving the quality of life of the citizens who live close to airports.
In this respect, Mr President, I would like once again to thank the two rapporteurs and the honourable Members for their work and I am grateful for the cooperation and understanding of Parliament, which wanted to participate in this very difficult exercise of adopting legislation in record time, which allows us to prevent other types of problem in the international field.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
The next item is the report (A5-0365/2001) by María Izquierdo Rojo, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, on women and fundamentalism (2000/2174(INI)).
Mr President, I would firstly like to welcome the fact that this House has accepted the proposal to produce a report on this issue, 'Women and fundamentalism', thereby allowing us to confront this serious problem and to hold this debate and the subsequent vote despite the difficulties involved and the current pressures.
Today the European Union must defend the universality of human rights in a globalised world in which fundamentalists represent serious threats to freedoms, human rights and peace.
This report offers useful proposals which will help to combat them.
The first of them, Mr President, is that we must not allow religious fundamentalism to become a taboo subject, since problems are not solved by ignoring them or covering them up, but by being aware of them and confronting them.
Women's identity must be personal and individual, differing in terms of religion, tradition and culture.
The space occupied by religion in a social and political whole must involve a very broad range of possibilities.
Therefore, Mr President, I would like this report to be just a first step, followed by other specific parliamentary proposals, which will demonstrate, in each country and case by case, what a human life is worth in the European Union.
One hundred and thirty million women throughout the world have had their genitalia mutilated and that a further 2 million women a year are exposed to such practices.
However, I should like to point out here that fundamentalism does not thrive just in developing countries; it also thrives in Europe.
Mr President, as we have stated repeatedly, the Group of the European People's Party condemns any form of fundamentalism and in that sense, we think it important for this report to be drafted in Parliament, and have endorsed it accordingly.
Fundamentalists have turned the myth of their religion into a streamlined ideology which forms the basis of their polity, and it is absolutely vital for the West to understand this fundamentalism.
The treatment of women under fundamentalist regimes, the topic of this report, is a burning issue.
Denial of their rights and their dignity is unacceptable, but unfortunately, the rapporteur failed to draft a report which draws a distinction between religious perception and the place of religion in society on the one hand, and religious fundamentalism on the other.
Together with a number of feminist groups in Afghanistan, I have personally in my group launched a support campaign in order to give them the chance to emancipate.
After difficult negotiations, the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities is proposing more than 30 paragraphs of specific measures, which have met with the agreement of four groups.
In a joint declaration, the Women's Rights Committee in the European Parliament and the women of the Council of Europe call for an international group of female observers to be set up to see that Afghan women have their unrestricted human rights restored to them.
We condemn any kind of fundamentalism, offence or crime for reasons of so-called honour, such as stoning or genital mutilation or withholding reproductive rights, and that includes in Europe.
Afghanistan, a country where, during the Taliban's reign of terror, women were not allowed to leave their homes, were not allowed to work or receive education, is the most poignant example of a country where fundamentalists, backed by their delusions, oppressed women.
Needless to say, religions will also lobby for their interests and their ideals.
The fact that churches defend their political agendas here among MEPs is a credit to our institution.
The report also focuses on the difficult position of women in developing countries and of lesbians.
Our joint fight against capital punishment or poverty is a good case in point.
It is a source of violation of human and women's rights and fundamental freedoms, as enshrined in the international treaties and conventions, and exercises its baleful influence not only directly, but also via religious rules, cultural characteristics, customs, political campaigns and social standards.
In the report, we asked the Council, the Member States and the Commission to take a joint initiative to send a special group of observers, specialised in gender equality, to Afghanistan to ensure that women's rights, as enshrined in international agreements and Treaties, are observed, and that aid and reconstruction policy takes sufficient account of the gender equality issues.
In this way, the tragedy caused by the Taliban, as well as the solution to it, can be used in the fight against other forms of fundamentalism.
Now we have come this far, I would like to thank my colleagues who have put in so much effort to draw up a number of new amendments.
What is worst is when degenerates of this kind are also defended with the aid of the law.
This often takes place in the name of religion and often under the protection of the law.
Clearly, respect for fundamental human rights is a cultural even more than a legal heritage, which is shared by the Member States of the European Union, a common value which has to contend with practices, customs, religions and cultures with which Europe comes into contact mainly because of migration.
The report tips towards a similar kind of intolerant fundamentalism to that which it means to fight.
The report arrogantly prescribes what is good and evil.
I regret the work that has gone into this report by the rapporteur, but I hope that it will be rejected.
Therefore, the meaning of this debate, of this report, for us and for all the women who live in Arab countries, whether extremist or not, is that the dignity of each individual and the respect for the religious beliefs of each individual will be safeguarded only if we assume our responsibility to separate religion from politics, Church from State.
Mr President, in European society and especially in the European Parliament, where we fight for respect for human rights, the debate on the issue of fundamentalism and its repercussions on people's lives and on the productivity and creativity of society is of immense importance.
Violations of women's human rights are a daily occurrence in numerous areas of the world, in various forms and in various sectors of public and private life.
And if we exercise a little self-criticism, we must admit that it was the destruction of cultural monuments by the Taliban and the terrorist attack on 11 September which made us aware of the situation of women in Afghanistan.
So what we see is that, while numerous countries accused of violating human rights, especially women's human rights, are finding the courage to introduce economic reforms which often fly in the face of traditional or religious precepts, when it comes to women and their rights, change is resisted at every turn.
We do not accept that religion and human rights are in opposite camps.
Rather than fight our citizens' religious convictions, our approach is to mobilise all the political means at our disposal to ensure that the principles of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights are applied to all policies, as the European Commission did recently when it took the initiative to strengthen these policies in its foreign relations.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important that the European Parliament discusses and votes in favour of the report on women and fundamentalism.
We wish to share these privileges with all the women in the world.
The violence we see throughout the world, particularly the situation of Afghan women under the Taliban regime, also exists, unfortunately, in other countries in which the dignity and will of women are trampled on for religious or ideological reasons.
We must condemn and fight effectively against the various forms of fundamentalism that exist in the world and which allow such situations to exist.
We cannot adopt a fundamentalist approach to this issue of intransigence toward the enormously serious situations taking place across the world and, in some cases, for example concerning the decision on reproductive rights, even within the European Union.
The aim of this report is to secure a vote against all forms of fundamentalism.
This is a historical fact that cannot be denied.
All those of us who want to oppose fundamentalism in any shape or form must face up to this historical fact without being hypocritical about it.
Some do promote certain women's rights, but few create and promote gender equality.
Fundamentalist or not, you are well aware that no religion has produced a theory on equality between men and women.
It is possible to cobble together or come up with strategies for emancipation despite fundamentalism, as certain Iranian women have proved to us, but that does not make it true in all cases.
Similarly, when I read in Article 31 that religious leaders must be asked to grant women the right to control their own bodies, I must protest.
The report contradicts itself when it calls upon the European Parliament - moreover in arrogant, disrespectful terms - to impose its own views on matters of dogma and ideology on the Pope and the patriarchs.
The problem is the separation of religion from politics.
Therefore, when this report calls upon us not to recognise States in which women are excluded from government and it is referring not to a normal State but to a State such as the Vatican, for example, I realise immediately that there is something wrong, for we are being asked to trespass on Member States' prerogatives and interfere in something which does not deserve such treatment.
That is why I confirm once again my support for the fight to uphold women's rights, but I must strongly reiterate my concern at the report's method and subject matter.
The values of the European Union laid down in the Charter of Fundamental Rights include the right to human dignity, the right to the integrity of the person, freedom of thought, conscience and religion and equality between men and women.
We must also ensure intercultural dialogue between the two banks of the Mediterranean by increasing monitoring for more active participation of women in the actions and programmes we support.
Lastly, we must support women seeking asylum in the European Union having suffered persecution in their own country in the name of fundamentalism.
The defence of women's rights and equality between men and women must be one of the cornerstones of our actions which requires specific attention from our Assembly.
Mr President, the discussion is very interesting but I have noticed that hardly anyone is talking about the text, probably because many of us are confused by it.
What was originally a report on women in Islam has ended up as a convoluted, ambiguous report with no real coherence.
However, certain points deserve our agreement, in particular the statement that, within the territory of the Member States, customs and beliefs that are counter to human rights, and in particular women's rights, cannot be tolerated and that the family rights of the Member States take precedence over those of the countries of origin of immigrants.
In conclusion, equality between men and women is not a matter of theory.
This is illustrated by such things as the situation of women in Afghanistan, the stoning of women, or traditional practices such as female circumcision which, unfortunately, are still being carried out, also in Europe.
The report is more anti-religion than it is pro-woman.
It has adopted the wrong approach because solutions are sought in half-yearly reports, the setting up of an open university for women only, special mobility programmes for women - as if women needed this - and intervention in countries which act in accordance with their legislation but which, in the eyes of the rapporteur, nevertheless offer women inadequate protection.
The report is also inconsistent.
In my country, representatives of human rights organisations, women's organisations, churches and women in churches have made an urgent appeal to vote against the report.
It is not true that women can participate with the same dignity as men because they are excluded from practically everything which may give them that dignity.
In the name of tradition, religion and fundamentalism, women are stoned, murdered and mutilated.
In the name of freedom of thought, we must vote in favour of this report.
Religion is a purely private matter for each individual and keeping the faith is a personal decision for each individual, assuming of course that keeping the faith does not run counter to the basic principles which unite all the Member States of the European Union.
Islam is the second most important religion in the European Union today.
However, any interpretation of the Koran or any other religion in the European Union cannot be respected unless the basic laws and principles of the European Union are respected first.
First, last year, as part of mainstreaming in all individual policies, the Commission presented the action plan on development relating to women.
It contains very specific actions on how to take account of respect for women's human rights, the involvement of women in development aid and the development of each country, and how to apply this action plan, with incentives and, where necessary, with sanctions.
Similarly, we are organising an initial seminar in March for experts from the 15 Member States and delegates invited from all over the world to debate a foreign policy action plan to be complied with by the European Union and the Member States.
We are preparing a Council of Foreign Ministers in 2003 at which the main item on the agenda will be a foreign policy action plan and recommendations.
This is a very important report because it focuses the debate on what is now one of the most serious issues at global level, the crime perpetrated against women on the grounds of religion or cultural mores, a crime which affects hundreds of millions of women.
Thank you very much, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
I therefore assume that you will be sympathetic towards organising matters in this way today.
We also know that the existing noise directive from 1996 is out of date and does not provide employees with sufficient protection.
We support the compromise proposal because it has been important to us to avoid having the common position rejected in the European Parliament.
And, as we heard, there was a real risk of that happening.
We have a compromise proposal I can live with.
The Commission will subsequently assess whether it is necessary to exempt the industry from the directive or to regulate it in some other way.
I believe this compromise proposal will make it clear how much exaggeration there has been in this matter and also make it clear that even people in the music industry are very seriously affected by the damage to their hearing that we are in actual fact trying to combat.
This is entirely in line with the principle of minimum standards in European social policy.
The use of a weekly noise exposure level in place of the daily noise exposure level under certain conditions is sensible, as envisaged in the Council's common position.
In my view, we take adequate account of this special area in the compromise proposed in Amendment 23.
But others in this House are straining to carve a new and retrograde path in the social field.
For the first time in conciliation in the social field we are seeing moves, particularly on the right and centre groupings of the House, to weaken significantly common positions established in the Social Affairs Council, and even, at times, to exclude significant sectors of activity from the legislation altogether.
We have seen this in relation to this proposal on noise and the parallel proposal on vibration.
Compromise Amendment No 23 on the music and entertainment sectors is a response to such a danger.
They will not let facts get in the way of seeing their own name in print and it is not hard to see why so many ill-informed articles have appeared concerning this proposal.
I hope that we can all grow up quickly and bring a little more dignity and integrity to our role as co-legislator.
Mr President, if the rapporteur's original draft report had gone through and had been accepted, it would have decimated industry across the EU.
If this had not been the case, with the exposure limit set at 87, hammering steel at 95-100 decibels, bottling at 98 decibels, and pig-feeding at 100 decibels would have ceased to exist, as would the construction and mining industries.
I welcome the fact that she has moved from daily measuring to weekly measuring in exceptional circumstances, but I would like her to move further to weekly measurements, to go back to the main body of the text as in the common position.
I am also glad that we have a chance to debate this because if it had been rejected on a second reading in committee, we would have had no chance to debate this today in the plenary session - no chance to put forward the amendment to exclude music and leisure for five years, and Parliament's view would not have been taken into account.
We are simply carrying out our task as parliamentarians and we listen to everyone, including people who are not directly involved in the process that leads to directives.
I am therefore delighted that we can conclude the second reading of the noise directive - forgive me for not using the correct title of the directive - this week.
I am therefore astounded, even dismayed - and many a composer will be turning in their graves - that Beethoven is being likened to a drill.
I am of the opinion that the music and entertainment industry should fall outside the scope of this directive and be regulated in a separate directive.
The fundamental difference between noise and Vivaldi is as follows: in the music and entertainment industry, sound is the ultimate product, or at least an important component thereof.
Sound plays a central role in this industry.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our European constitution, our Treaties, state that we are responsible for improving the workplace environment in order to protect the health of employees.
The ignorance of the press - sometimes the quality press - also confirms this view.
Firstly: The general public's lack of awareness that since 1986, employees in the music industry have been covered by a directive which is still in force.
I would like to send the Commission a copy of a letter which I received from the Swiss Musicians Federation about a hearing in 1996, which shows very clearly, Mr Pronk, that damage to hearing is always to be taken seriously, regardless of whether someone works in the construction industry, ceramics, or a music company or orchestra. (Interjection: Or even in Parliament!) Or even in Parliament, but fortunately, most of our colleagues are not as noisy as that!
Mr President, the rapporteur has come a long way in recent weeks in terms of dumping some of her more extreme amendments.
However, in my view, the amendments that remain are neither necessary nor helpful.
In the words of the UK Health and Safety Executive, the body set up to give the UK Government the expert and impartial scientific advice so necessary when dealing with such issues, these amendments provide "no benefit for health and safety and their sole effect will be to place unnecessary and unwelcome burdens on industry, particularly on small firms".
However, that still leaves us with the problems facing industry if other amendments also pass.
I urge them, even at this late stage, to vote against these amendments, to vote for jobs, to vote for reform and to vote for Barcelona.
Amendment No 15 deals with an issue which is perhaps purely grammatical.
All of this, Mr President, Mrs Thorning-Schmidt, must be done from the point of view of providing quality employment with less risk to the health and safety of workers, and this objective demands legislation which is clear in its principles and in its wording.
I should like to point out that some of the proposals we have heard take us behind the current framework and the specific directive which already exists.
In five countries in which studies have been carried out - Holland, Portugal, Spain, France and Germany - compensation for hearing problems costs EUR 96 billion a year.
The Commission has accepted the Council's common position in that it enhances the level of protection set out in the Commission proposal.
The reduction in the exposure limit value from 96 db to 87 db is clearly good progress.
Although I agree with the idea behind Amendment No 3, the second part of Amendment No 4, Amendment No 5, Amendment No 13 and the second part of Amendment No 16, the Commission cannot accept them for reasons of consistency and legislative procedure.
The Commission also rejects Amendment No 21, because it feels that the manner in which the Member States obtain access to the relevant medical and scientific advice is a question of subsidiarity.
Applying health and safety measures to the music market will affect 3 to 5 million workers in Europe.
Constant exposure to this noise gradually gives them problems with their hearing, without which they cannot do their job.
Mrs Diamantopoulou, do you wish to make any comment?
The vote is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The next item is the Commission communication on unfair practices by airlines of third countries.
We have all seen over recent months how, owing to several different circumstances, third-country air companies have received large amounts of public subsidy which in many cases have been used to lower fares and create unfair competition on routes on which European Union air companies compete.
In order to provide ourselves with instruments which can allow us to defend and support our air sector, which is absolutely strategic for the European Union, we are going to propose, and today we have adopted, the proposed regulation on predatory practices within the framework of air transport services.
In the field of sea transport there is already legislation to combat charges which create unfair competition and in other areas, such as aid granted in the manufactured goods sector, we have other instruments.
In this regard, it is a question of establishing forms of compensation to counter the advantages that the use of this State aid or non-commercial advantages represent for these third-country companies to the detriment of our companies.
I believe that it is a balanced regulation which contains - as you will see when you analyse it - a definition of what its principles are, of what is meant by guaranteeing fair competition, of what is understood to be unfair charging practice and establishes a procedure which guarantees that in no event will there be either overcompensation nor advantageous actions.
I believe that this is absolutely essential if we are to genuinely guarantee that we are going to prevent unfair competition and our air sector being affected by State aid or non-commercial advantages.
Mr President, I think the Commission is right to take action in this direction because we, as the European Union, need legal tools to deal with the specific issue of unfair competition from third countries.
First, have you already got evidence or at least received accusations from various European companies of unfair competition from third countries, America, Switzerland or other countries which we read about in the press from time to time?
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, I would simply like to pose two questions to supplement the comments made by Mr Hatzidakis.
I believe that what Switzerland has done with regard to the restructuring of Swissair into Crossair, Swiss Airlines or whatever is clearly a subsidy case.
It is also true that various ministers, in their speeches at the last Council and in a letter that they have sent to me, have expressed their concern at the situation.
We still maintain that on 31 March, the special guarantee for the provision of insurance by the Member States will end for new risks related to terrorism or to war.
Nevertheless, the Transport Council is due to look at this issue and consider practices in the United States and in Japan, because a normal insurance market will not function unless the United States and Japan and their airlines are also involved.
Unfair practice occurs when an airline that has received State aid in its own country does not use this aid to cover a certain type of cost but to artificially lower prices on routes in which it is in competition with European Union airlines.
Thank you very much, Mrs de Palacio.
I am very pleased to say that the present Romanian Government has succeeded in enforcing this moratorium.
I hope that appropriate legislation and administrative procedures will be put in place in Romania within the near future so that the normal systems governing international adoptions can be resumed.
However, let me say again, Mr Gil-Robles, even though this may not be welcome in some quarters: in striking a balance between protecting children in Romania and the needs of prospective parents - whichever country they may live in - our first priority must always be to protect the child.
Firstly, as regards the Association Council, there was full agreement between the Member States and the Commission on what we should say about this issue, and also between the Presidency and the Commission.
Until the system in Romania guarantees that international adoptions take place in accordance with our required standards, I shall continue to oppose any re-opening of the gates to allow international adoptions to take place without restrictions.
It was this House which repeatedly called on the Commission to reject any compromises on the protection of Romanian children, and the Commission is firmly adhering to this course.
Mr President, I agree with Commissioner Verheugen when he says that the most important aspect of this type of case is the welfare of the Romanian children.
Secondly, since Mr Verheugen is a member of a Commission that represents the countries of the European Union, has the Commission adopted measures to ensure that, in the event that international adoptions take place involving citizens of Community countries, guarantees will be provided in the reception countries for Romanian children to be treated appropriately, in accordance with international law, Community law and with the national law of the Member States?
The CE conformity marking must be affixed to any product falling within the scope of a technical harmonisation directive providing for it.
It signifies that the product complies with the legally binding requirements of the applicable technical harmonisation directive.
The manufacturer is responsible for affixing the CE conformity marking, although the directives often require the intervention of a third-party conformity-assessment body.
A number of services in the Commission are responsible for technical harmonisation directives providing for the CE conformity marking, although most fall under the responsibility of DG Enterprise.
However, the Commission intervenes directly neither in the process of evaluating the conformity of products nor in the award of the CE conformity marking.
The Commission has already replied to this issue in 1997.
I am therefore of the opinion that it is not feasible to apply a different treatment in the context of these directives to equipment that could potentially be used as an instrument of torture.
Nevertheless, and in order to take account of the concerns of the honourable Member of Parliament, the Commission, and especially the Director-General for External Relations is currently preparing a proposal for a Council regulation concerning trade in equipment which may be used for torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
Thank you very much, Mr Liikanen.
If another Member wishes to ask a supplementary question, he or she may do so, but you may not.
An appeal has been lodged by the defendant and will be heard on 18 March 2002.
The Troika recently made a demarche on the application of the death penalty in Nigeria.
The Commission is seeking to end the practice of public and particularly cruel executions pursued in certain Islamic countries.
In the case of Nigeria, the Commission will work through the framework of the Cotonou Agreement, two of the fundamental conditions of which are respect for human rights and equality between men and women.
Where these conditions are not met, the Agreement allows for a process of political dialogue between the national authorities and the Commission.
In addition, within the framework of the Community budget, the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights includes Nigeria as a "focal country".
Nigeria is eligible for support for measures in the field of good governance and this will have a positive impact on the status of women by raising awareness among them of their legal rights.
However, could I take this opportunity to ensure that, with the good offices of the Commission, and utilising the partnership agreements we have with Nigeria, there will be a greater understanding, not only of the respect for human rights, but also of our total abhorrence of the death penalty in any form, whether it be by electric chair or by stoning or by any other method.
I would have this strength of feeling with regard to America, as much as with Nigeria or any other country in the world that continues to use the death penalty.
This brings us closer to the authorities, and also, in some cases, closer to some of the states where Sharia law has been instituted.
The broader issue of the death penalty is quite clear.
It is a global issue and I am sure it is something which we all agree on.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am very grateful for your reply and relieved that the Commission has acted so swiftly in this matter.
I should warn, however, against the perception that our development cooperation activities with a given country make it possible for us to influence events of this kind profoundly.
I am afraid I can say no more at this moment, but no doubt Mrs Riis-Jörgensen, the committee of which she is a member and myself will engage in dialogue as soon as a more concrete proposal has been formulated.
Commissioner Bolkestein, women are not very patient but I will try to be patient and wait for you to come up with proposals which, hopefully, will balance all the interests you have mentioned.
I look forward to a thorough discussion and cooperation.
As you know, the WTO disputes settlement procedure is essential in ensuring that the multilateral trade system is secure and predictable.
From our point of view, the main benefit of the system for European businesses, including SMUs, is that it applies great pressure to respect the rules of the World Trade Organisation.
The Commission submitted a proposal for a directive in 2000.
No doubt this will be the case with the new steel dispute with the Americans.
Secondly, as it happens, the WTO disputes settlement procedure is still in its infancy.
The idea is a good one, but we must still answer the question of knowing how to implement this, if not through sanctions and compensation pay-outs, which brings us back to the previous problem.
In July 1998 the Commission received notification from the Greek authorities on a draft law which would transpose Directive 94/62.
However, this draft law was not immediately adopted into Greek legislation and so transposition did not actually occur in 1998.
On 13 April 2000 the European Court of Justice condemned Greece for non-transposition of Directive 94/62.
On 2 May 2000 the Commission requested information from the Greek authorities regarding the measures taken to comply with the Court ruling, but no information was provided.
The procedure stemming from Article 228 was initiated against Greece on 8 November 2000 and a reasoned opinion was sent to Greece on 10 April 2001.
On 2 August 2001 Greece adopted Law 2939/2001, thereby transposing Directive No 94/62 into Greek national legislation.
The Commission received notification of this law from the Greek authorities on 26 September 2001.
This law has satisfactorily incorporated the observations of the Commission concerning the notification text transmitted to the Commission in 1998 and the procedure against Greece under Article 228 regarding transposition of Directive 94/62 was therefore closed on 20 December 2001.
Question No 40 by Glyn Ford (H-0092/02): Subject: Water Framework Directive By 2015 under the new Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EC The water framework directive has set the objective to achieve good status for all waters in the European Union.
Participation of all relevant stakeholders will be one of the key elements of the directive.
This process is to ensure input and participation by all interested and involved parties.
Further, Community research efforts under the Sixth Framework Programme will support the implementation of the directive, as will the LIFE financial instrument in the field of innovative and integrated techniques and methods.
Beyond those measures the Treaty provides for clear guidance as regards financing Community environmental policy being, as a rule, the responsibility of Member States.
In my own region - and particularly in Cornwall, which is an Objective 1 area - we have very many small and medium enterprises that will find it most difficult to comply with this legislation.
But we cannot go into each and every Member State directly and create those incentives.
That will have to remain the responsibility of the Member States.
Question No 41 by Nuala Ahern (H-0093/02): Subject: Assessment of radioactive emissions from Sellafield and Cap de la Hague Has the Commission already made an assessment and if not, will it undertake an immediate comparative assessment of the details of radioactive effluents and emissions released respectively from the Sellafield nuclear waste and fuel processing plant, operated by BNFL in the UK, and the La Hague nuclear waste and fuel processing plant, operated by COGEMA in France, as published in the Commission Radiation Protection Report 127, Radioactive effluents from nuclear power stations and nuclear fuel reprocessing plants in the European Union, 1995-1999, and the report prepared for the European Parliament's Scientific and Technological Options Assessment Programme (STOA) on 'Possible Toxic Effects from the Nuclear Reprocessing Plants at Sellafield (UK) and Cap de la Hague (France)', published in December 2001 and November 2001 respectively?
The Commission can confirm that the data reported in the two documents were found to be consistent.
The difference between the two documents lies in the fact that the Commission document simply reports discharge data whereas the WISE report presents an analysis of the impact of these discharges on human health and the environment.
The Commission is committed to helping OSPAR achieve that aim and the Member States will assist them to that end.
So once the Marina study is complete there will be another opportunity to take stock and decide on the measures to come.
We also make use of experts and have expert committees comprising representatives and experts from all the Member States.
At present there is a Commission proposal to ban the use of penta-BDE as from 1 July 2003.
The common position adopted by the Council on 4 December 2001 brought forward this date to 1 January 2007.
Question No 43 by Patricia McKenna (H-0101/02): Subject: Ireland's compliance with EU environmental laws During Commissioner Wallström's recent visit to Ireland she stated that she would use the leverage of structural funding to force Ireland to comply with some key directives such as the Nitrates Directive and the Framework Waste Directive.
Questions to Commissioner Fischler Linkage between allocation of Community funds and compliance with Community and environmental law is even-handed and applies to all Member States.
The immediate focus is now on the Nitrates directive.
In its rural development plan, Ireland committed itself to complete designation by the end of 2001.
The framework waste directive is not an issue since Ireland has submitted a complete set of up-to-date waste management plans.
These reforms involve better internal use of information technology and a quicker dispatch of warning letters to Member States.
Furthermore, in 2000, the Court of Justice imposed its first financial penalty in a case concerning waste management.
However, the honourable Member will be aware that the Commission must operate within overall constraints that are very tight, and that there are many competing demands.
In today's Irish Times Wicklow County Council admits to the existence of up to 88 illegal dumps, 19 of which have not even been examined yet.
But it is not just Ireland that is causing difficulties.
We have, as you know, a record number of complaints from Ireland in particular.
There is also the possibility for me to raise this issue in my contacts with the Government of Ireland.
For the coming three years, the Commission has submitted a proposal for a Council regulation which sets the premiums and quotas until 2004.
Among other things, this proposal provides for a restructuring of the Community Tobacco Fund in order to finance studies in the Member States on the opportunities for conversion of tobacco production to other crops outside the tobacco sector, and on the initial experiences of this conversion.
In this proposal, the Commission has also announced a further proposal for the first half of 2003, which will be based on the guidelines contained in the Commission communication of 16 May 2001 on the European Union Strategy for Sustainable Development.
If you subsidise the takeover of quotas by other producers, obviously the producers who take over this production potential need some time to amortise their investment, about 7 or 8 years.
If you say that you are going to stop paying them a subsidy within three years, then there is no point in their taking over the quotas.
You say, Commissioner, that you will carry out a study to see what the possibilities are for other crops.
For this reason, we also cannot raise any legal expectations should the phasing out of subsidies for tobacco cultivation take place at a later stage.
Only then will a decision by the Agriculture Council and an opinion by Parliament be necessary, based on a Commission proposal which will draw on the findings of this year's study.
As the author is not present, Question No 49 lapses.
Question No 50 by Izquierdo Rojo (H-0080/02): Subject: Repercussions of Prime Minister Aznar's disagreements with Morocco Will farmers have to bear the consequences of the disagreements which have arisen between Prime Minister Aznar and the Kingdom of Morocco?
The Commission and Morocco recently initiated formal negotiations in order to rework these concessions with a view to deepening the liberalisation process.
Commissioner, your reply has been quite inadequate and confused, because we know from the press that on 15 March negotiations between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco on the agriculture chapter will be starting in Rabat.
In my reply, I also mentioned the very negotiations you refer to, which were held on 15 March.
A total of EUR 197 million will be allocated to the programme: EUR 170 million in this year's budget and EUR 27 million in next year's budget.
Thus the permanent transfer of vessels to Morocco through sale or creation of a joint enterprise in Morocco is also eligible for funding.
However, the premium for the creation of a joint enterprise amounts to just 80% of the scrapping premium, and the premium for export of a vessel amounts to just 50% of the scrapping premium.
Furthermore, vessel owners who purchased their ship with Community aid and who now wish to export it or transfer it to a joint enterprise with a Community subsidy must repay a proportion of the subsidy received for the original purchase.
Outside the framework of this programme, there are only the Structural Funds for the fisheries industry, which govern all scrapping measures and where the same conditions apply universally.
As they deal with the same subject, Question Nos 52 and 53 will be taken together.
Question No 52 by Jonas Sjöstedt (H-0086/02): Subject: EU export subsidies for agricultural produce The EU spends nearly EUR five billion each year on subsidies of exports of its own agricultural produce.
These subsidies seriously damage the prospects of other countries, particularly developing ones, of maintaining a viable position on the market in agricultural produce.
The Court of Auditors has also highlighted the fact that the expenditure is not checked in a satisfactory manner.
Mr President, I would indeed prefer to answer these two questions together, as their content is the same.
In the Doha Ministerial Declaration, the WTO members pledged to engage in comprehensive negotiations aimed at reductions of, with a view to phasing out, all forms of export subsidies, although the text ultimately adopted in Doha left the final outcome of the negotiations open.
The negotiations will cover all forms of export subsidies, not only our export refunds.
Furthermore, the European Union has already reduced its export refunds by 50%.
In 1993, export refunds still totalled EUR 10 billion, whereas they currently amount to less than EUR 5 billion.
The Commission is also endeavouring to shape its export policies in such a way as to avoid negative impacts on developing countries' production when granting refunds.
As far as the common agricultural policy permits, the process of reducing subsidies will continue, with due account being taken of the interests of our own producers and trading companies in this context.
In my view, we should also remind ourselves sometimes that the European Union alone imports more agricultural products from the developing countries than the USA, Japan, Canada, New Zealand and Australia put together.
With regard to exports, a key factor in this context is that we can only reduce export refunds in sectors where appropriate reforms of the common agricultural policy are taking place.
Given the pace of the common agricultural policy reforms, further reductions in export refunds can therefore also be anticipated.
But I must confess, Commissioner, that I am somewhat disappointed at the lack of force in what you had to say about this commitment to phase out subsidies for farm exports, which is absolutely essential.
Let us take the milk production sector as an example, as I have already mentioned.
As you probably know, there is currently no political majority in the European Union in favour of reforming the existing organisation of the milk market.
As you know, the next step is the mid-term review in June this year, but in some sectors, further measures are already planned, for example in the olive sector, the fruit and vegetable sector, and in many others too.
We know that they are excellent observers who have a perfect understanding of the status of biodiversity throughout the world.
I would like to remind you that biodiversity plays a part in our own survival and that although nature does not need man to survive, we, as human beings, need nature in order to live.
We must reiterate the fundamental role of biodiversity as the cornerstone of sustainable development and the importance of the full application of the Convention and its provisions.
The action plans presented by the Commission in the areas of natural resources, agriculture, development and fisheries, which are the subject of this report, may, of course, be seen as a first step along this road, but they are not enough.
We need additional action plans, particularly for forestry and for transport, as all these Community policies had or still have a negative impact on biodiversity.
To reverse this destructive tendency is a bold challenge, admittedly, but it is one we are prepared to face.
We demand that they be applied throughout the European Union, including in the candidate countries and in the outermost regions and particularly in areas such as the coral reef.
We must find ways of preserving these areas.
No mention is made of biodiversity.
Although there is consensus between the various groups within Parliament on the ways of protecting biodiversity, several Members hold conflicting views on the impact of GMOs on biodiversity.
For this reason, it must play a double-edged and central role in the conservation of biodiversity: first, by consolidating farming practices that are compatible with the environment and, secondly, by ensuring the survival of viable farms and systems of production throughout the territory of the European Union.
A Community strategy for biodiversity must guarantee a method of farming that is more sustainable, in the broadest sense of the word, and which, in addition to the biological aspects, incorporates economic and social requirements and, ultimately, the survival of the rural world.
Furthermore, maintaining this sustainable form of farming is a prerequisite for the European agricultural model, which is based on the protection of multifunctionality in agriculture, as the Council and the European Parliament have reiterated in numerous resolutions.
Therefore, we should extend eco-conditionality and encourage more active use of the agricultural market policy mechanisms designed to protect the environment and biodiversity.
We must support these requirements in our legislation on food quality, plant-health products, seeds and genetic resources.
The Fishery Committee's second point of concern pertains to the development of genetic engineering in fish farming.
Canada and the United States currently have a system which they can set in motion as soon as they receive the green light.
It seems important to me for the Commission to verify to what extent we can stop this development in Europe, or at least are able to hold a reasonable political debate on the subject before we resort to such technology in fish farming.
More research by the Commission in the framework of biodiversity would be appreciated in that area too.
Paragraph 49 calls for EU support for measures aimed at encouraging indigenous peoples to manage and preserve biodiversity.
I have tabled an amendment adjusting the wording to the effect that the EU should support the role which, in virtue of its traditional knowledge, the original population plays in preserving and managing biodiversity.
I have tabled an amendment with a view to having this aspect included in the report.
The Community's cooperation programmes have proved to be sustainable alternatives to a protectionist approach, and I am able fully to support this way of thinking.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, species extinction and the loss of biodiversity in Europe and worldwide are proceeding at an ever-increasing pace.
My group will vote for this report, but we will vote against it on a number of individual points.
We will vote for this report, but in the areas where we think it does not do justice to our farmers, we will vote against it.
The protection of biodiversity deserves top priority.
They can only be successful if they take account of the socio-economic circumstances of the people in that area.
We must tackle hot spots worldwide; areas that are particularly rich in species deserve special protection.
Action plans must be clear and, above all, concrete.
The bird directive and the habitat directive epitomise biodiversity protection.
Large-scale agriculture and the conservation of biodiversity are a difficult match.
The fishery implications for biodiversity are less visible.
Member States should draft action plans for that purpose.
These projects must set an example to other nature reserves.
Mr President, Commissioner, I, for my part, would also like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur and the Commission for preparing this matter for debate.
I would, however, like to raise two matters in this parliamentary report.
The use of forests in the Member States would be controlled by the EU by means of action plans.
At this point we must remember that forestry matters in the EU are covered by the principle of subsidiarity and there is no cause to extend Brussels' control in these matters unless there are special reasons for doing so.
For example, in my country the major problems are not really connected with the state of the environment or biodiversity, but the fact that production must in general be supported, production costs being as high as they are.
I propose that point 44 should be deleted from the text.
Furthermore, it clearly shows that thousands of species that have not even been identified will disappear.
The rapporteur welcomes the plans that are proposed but points out that there are plans that have still not been carried out such as, for example, those concerning forests.
As I have very little time, Mr President, I shall just give one example, because examples are the best way of explaining what needs to be done: the use of EAGGF Funds in the destruction of the last remaining laurel forest on the island of Gran Canaria.
Mr President, I join with other speakers in complimenting the rapporteur and welcoming his report.
The extent to which biodiversity impacts on the lives of all citizens and the quality or otherwise of their lives makes this debate extremely important.
Those of us entrusted with the task of ensuring a future for our past must now act with decisiveness.
Farmers are getting older and young people are reluctant to take up farming as a career.
From a biodiversity viewpoint, the role of farmers and the preservation of family-based farm units are important.
Biodiversity and sustainable development will not happen if they are planned out of the equation.
Mr President, as the Natura 2000 network is being established almost everywhere in Europe, against the advice of the rural community and with disastrous consequences for man, I regret that the report on biodiversity has been hastily debated in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
Drawing up national strategies or action plans on biodiversity could only be contemplated if they were drafted after a broad consensus had been reached, respecting regional socio-economic interests.
As for enlargement and the rapporteur's proposal to select a flagship project on the protection of biodiversity, we must not forget that the candidate countries want to join the Union in order to make up for their economic and social shortfalls as quickly as possible and to modernise their infrastructures.
I regret the fact that the four amendments that I tabled in committee were all rejected, even the amendment in which I called for a CAP that respects the environment as well as those working in the rural community.
In our view, there is no doubt that he is.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express an opinion on the action plan as it relates to the preservation of biodiversity in the context of economic cooperation and as it relates to development cooperation.
We have already heard this evening that the greatest degree of biodiversity is to be found in the tropical regions of the developing countries.
This is why it is important that this action plan seeks to integrate the principle of preserving biodiversity into the development-cooperation programmes of the European Union.
May I also express the support of my group for all those amendments which emphasise the fundamental role of indigenous populations and their social, economic and cultural rights?
Now that we are talking about biodiversity and, of course, sustainability too, I should not wish to miss this opportunity to say that we must also put our own house in order if we want to possess credibility in the eyes of the international community.
Biodiversity is also important environmental capital which local societies in many countries depend on for their livelihood.
Both the EU's strategy for sustainable development and the seventh Environment Action Programme state that one of their central goals is that of halting the decline in biodiversity by 2010.
The biodiversity action plans are not just ambitious but also realistic.
This also states how we intend to use general environmental controls such as environmental impact assessment, environmental labelling, environmental audits and other financial controls to promote the safeguarding of biodiversity throughout the EU.
The action plan for fisheries addresses threats from both traditional fisheries and aquaculture, and it complies entirely with the Green Paper on the future of the common fisheries policy.
The battle for biodiversity therefore has a great deal to do with our strategy for eradicating poverty.
The action plan for economic cooperation and development provides the tools for this.
These plans will primarily contribute to the discussion of the reform of the common fisheries policy, common agriculture policy and the regulations on the Structural Funds.
I would like to thank all my fellow MEPs for your valuable contribution to the debate.
Thank you Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
This is a great help to me because I am doing a course at the Goethe Institute, but other people may find it a little difficult.
In 1999, European consumers spent EUR 1 615 million on vitamins and minerals alone.
Vitamins and minerals are involved in numerous biochemical processes in the human organism.
I believe that the opportunity to enrich our daily food intake with additional vitamins and minerals is very valuable.
The directive on food supplements is designed to harmonise the laws of the Member States.
The directive unequivocally assigns food supplements to the domain of foodstuffs.
The consumer must be able to rely on the complete safety of all foodstuffs, particularly of substances such as vitamins and minerals, where stability levels sometimes differ between products.
The new directive targets two specific areas: consumer safety and the completion of the single market in food supplements.
The Council of Ministers has adopted Parliament's key demands from the first reading.
The substances in question are already on the market but have not yet been evaluated by the competent scientific committee.
The Committee on the Environment has extended this 18-month period to 36 months in order to give small and medium-sized businesses in particular sufficient time to compile the relevant data on their products.
I would personally argue for 30 months, because I believe that two and a half years should be enough time to prove the safety of a product that has been sold to consumers for years.
On this particular point, the directive manages to take account of both the wishes of consumers and the need to protect them.
The substance of Amendment No 8 on greater transparency is already clearly covered by Articles 38 and 42 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of 28 February 2002 establishing the European Food Safety Authority.
For all the reasons I have outlined, I can have no truck whatsoever with the proposal to reject the common position that is made in Amendment No 7.
This directive gives consumers in Europe the support of a legal framework that attaches great value to product safety and responsible labelling without restricting the range of products on shop and supermarket shelves.
Like the United States, Great Britain and the Netherlands have, in fact, very flexible legislation whereby, once registered, all vitamins and minerals can be freely bought, sold and used.
However, there are also products, certain vitamins and minerals, that are not without risk.
In Germany, another Member State, rules are very strict.
The food supplements market is growing fast.
Food supplements can make a positive contribution to health.
However, it is obvious that quality is not always guaranteed.
The consumer is entitled to a safe product and sound information.
In the field of food supplements, large industrial interests are at stake.
I recently received 35 letters from anxious consumers.
Producers have 18 months in which to demonstrate that their products are safe.
This appears to me to be sufficient time, but I have no problem with extending this period to 24 months.
The directive is of huge importance, and it is futile to regulate safety for each Member State individually.
With regard to food supplements, there is currently no internal market, but many different, national rules.
We must set up this internal market for food supplements.
Manufacturers will have three and a half years, depending on our vote, to submit their dossier and prove that their products which are not currently listed in the Annex are safe, and if a ban has to be imposed eventually, it would therefore be placed on doubtful substances.
To sum up, and for all the aforementioned reasons, we are dealing with flexible and balanced legislation which takes into account the interests of consumers, manufacturers and distributors and which lays a basis for the harmonisation that is necessary in this sector.
However, according to many reports which I have read on this issue, RDAs are set far too low and should be revised upwards.
For example, the RDA for vitamin B6 is just 2 mg while the upper safe limit is 200 mg.
Two studies published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 1993 demonstrated that taking supplements containing 100 IU of vitamin E for at least two years reduced the risk of heart disease in both men and women by approximately 40%.
I believe that countries with a restrictive policy should relax it, but not on the condition that we tighten our system and restrict the access of our consumers in our countries to vitamin and food supplements.
I consider that the public health arguments are weak.
There is no major public health problem from people overdosing on vitamins and minerals.
If we really want to make a vigorous contribution to public health, we should possibly address the subjects of alcohol, tobacco or something else rather than the area covered by this directive.
I consider that, in areas such as this, different EU countries should be allowed to have different rules - more liberal or more restrictive - depending on the wishes of the voters.
I consider that supranational rules should only be used to combat real supranational common problems.
To achieve these two objectives, it is necessary, as the rapporteur has said, to appropriately define what food supplements are; it is necessary to put in place a scientific assessment of all the ingredients and their minimum and maximum doses; it is necessary also to outline the key criteria for requirements with regard to consumer protection; and of course, the quality of standards has to be looked into as well.
The protection of the European Union's 370 million consumers is of paramount importance.
If there is any possible likelihood of endangering public health by means of the implementation of any particular proposal, one must always veer on the side of caution, and I compliment the rapporteur on her report.
I therefore hope that there will be a sufficient number of Members who have the courage to reject the Council's common position.
Mr President, this is a bad directive.
The people who write them fear that they will no longer be able to buy over 300 food supplements that their good health depends on.
They believe our - British, in this instance - more liberal system may allow unsafe products onto the market.
This directive tries to reconcile very different national approaches to allowing these products onto the markets and it fails in that attempt at reconciliation.
Small businesses have been allowed too little time to submit the required safety dossier on their products.
When it came forward two years ago there was no cost impact assessment attached.
We are speaking about products that are on the market today and are asking why we need to provide evidence of their safety!
I take no pleasure in saying this, Patricia, because our opinions often concur.
Goodness knows that I have been involved for long enough in matters of consumer protection in this House.
I believe my reputation goes before me in that respect.
My colleague, Frederick Ries, says that not all vitamins are safe, but of course you can kill yourself on anything if you eat enough of it.
Better labelling would have been sufficient to provide such protection as is needed, but perhaps that would not have been enough to satisfy the big drug companies, which are seeking to control a lucrative market.
However, when it comes to Brussels proving that it wants to treat people like an interfering nanny, this directive really does take the biscuit.
The problem with the directive is partly Article 5, which concerns establishing the maximum daily intake.
The opportunity of small companies and manufacturers to make their influence felt in the market worries me considerably in that respect.
The report is based on transparency, disclosure and safety for consumers.
This is why scientists and researchers have a legal entitlement to improve this common position.
Mr President, circulating the streets of Strasbourg this morning was a mobile advertising hoarding asking this Parliament how it could ignore the wishes of 450 million voters.
And if this Parliament accepts the common position on this directive it will prove my point.
The Commission is entirely wrong to assert that lobby groups are scaremongering.
I would like to inform Commissioner Byrne that, in order to speed up the adoption of this directive, I have withdrawn an excellent amendment which sought to ensure the safety of consumers, particularly, in that it specified that all food supplements should be prepared according to good manufacturing practice.
I therefore call upon Commissioner Byrne to deliver a formal undertaking to the effect that the provisions of the regulations to be drawn up stipulating that food supplements must meet high quality and safety standards in order to prevent small artisans - or health quacks, even - from marketing low quality, potentially dangerous products, will be made clearer and more explicit.
In view of Parliament's clear, great responsibility in matters of the citizens' health, we must be highly focused in our work in order to ensure that all the individual Member States of the European Union are provided with rules making high standards of quality and safety a priority.
One last plea to Commissioner Byrne: in calling for this new documentation we should request that it be differentiated according to the composition of certain products, for this would reduce the expenditure for small and medium-sized businesses considerably.
We owe our constituents our judgement, and mine is that for all its flaws and deficiencies, the directive is one that should be commended, with amendments, to those many people who are frightened and nervous, who depend on these food supplements to preserve their health, and some of whom even believe it is a matter of life or death.
They fear this directive because they have been told that these products will be banned, that testing will be prohibitive, and that what remains will be swallowed up in a restrictive and prescriptive regime.
If you make the claims, you must expect to see them tested, but they should be tested fairly, simply and in a cost-effective way to leave a regime of light-touch and user-friendly practices.
That is what my country has had and I believe we can keep it.
It is also possible to fit that in to the framework of this directive. (Applause from the left) Mr President, I believe that this directive represents a terrible infringement of our right to these products.
Commissioner Byrne, your proposal, if implemented, could remove hundreds of vitamin and mineral supplements from our shelves, in the UK and Ireland in particular.
These products are safe and have been accessible to consumers for years.
Consumers will not forgo these products.
However, many Member States have put national interests first and lobbied to keep their markets closed.
This is because the liberal regime in Ireland, the UK and the Netherlands is not acceptable to other Member States such as Germany and France.
This means that products that are safe and widely available will be withdrawn from the market.
The only criterion for taking products off the market should be one of safety.
Member States have different traditions in this area.
Mr President, today, we are debating the vitamin directive at second reading.
Mr President, Commissioner, for 60 years we have had two traditions in Europe and had no significant health problems.
As long as we have acceptance of the upper safe limit, consumer choice should prevail.
Not only have they had no problems, but their health and well-being have benefited.
Now we are faced not with a health measure but with a single-market measure which threatens to omit 300 items on this list from the 'positive' list of items available.
These 300 items are currently legally and safely on sale in the shops of my country and yours, Commissioner.
If these items fail in 18 short months to get the scientific committee's approval or to get their dossier in, then they will come off the market.
That is not a problem for large manufacturers, but it is a very serious problem for the small ones.
If they do go off the market they may, as we have heard, go abroad, go offshore or appear on the Internet, at some risk to the consumer.
However, may I say also that Emilia Müller has suffered one of the worst assaults by people outside this Parliament that any Member has had to put up with.
There is a great difference between all the pressure and lobbies and being subjected to threats and abuse.
The two main purposes of the directive are, on the one hand, the approximation of national laws so that a single market for food supplements can be created, and, on the other, to establish an appropriate level of consumer protection in all Member States.
For that reason, with this directive there should be an appropriate definition of food supplements, a scientific assessment of all ingredients should be carried out, requirements relating to consumer information and labelling should be specified, quality standards should be developed, and an adequate monitoring system should be guaranteed.
Whilst the directive will help guarantee access to the markets for all manufacturers, Parliament has been especially keen to take account of the problems of small manufacturers.
For that reason, Parliament wishes to extend, by way of its own compromise proposal, the eighteen-month deadline proposed in the Council's common position to 30 months.
If these conditions are met I see no reason to reject the common position.
It will cause great confusion in my country if that all changes.
It also dismays me to some extent to hear people in this House - also for whom I have enormous respect - express the view that this legislation is motivated by, of all things, lobbying of the pharmaceutical industry.
It is absolutely wrong.
But sometimes people who make these allegations are the ones who are inordinately concerned about the role of industry.
We currently have very different attitudes, rules and practices among Member States.
These impede the free circulation of food supplements within the European Union, and can deprive consumers from access to a wide range of these products.
You will not, therefore, be surprised that I cannot support the views of those who propose, with Amendment No 7, to reject the common position.
A substantial number of Members of Parliament and of the Commission have been subjected to an orchestrated and misleading campaign against the adoption of this directive.
I suspect they may very well be people who have been seriously misled by those who profit by this legislation not going through the system.
The consumer organisations who are there to look after the best interests of consumers have not been misled.
The common position provides a very good framework for the regulation of food supplements in the European Union.
It is designed to ensure that a very wide range of such products is available to consumers.
The underlying criterion for a single market in food supplements is safety: adequate and appropriate labelling designed to inform consumers.
Of course, these products must be used in the context of a diversified diet and in line with manufacturers' instructions.
I have listened carefully to the concerns expressed, concerning small and medium enterprises, that a period of 18 months for the preparation of evaluation dossiers may be too short.
I can, therefore, accept any one of Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4 or 5 that relate to this point, provided that this would contribute to the adoption of the common position without further changes.
I have also taken careful note of the interventions with regard to good manufacturing practice for food supplements, which is the subject of Amendment No 2.
I would like to reiterate what I said at first reading.
The adoption of principles of good manufacturing practice by legally binding measures for specific categories of products is not appropriate in the case of foodstuffs.
This already exists in relation to foodstuffs in many pieces of horizontal legislation.
The vast majority of these principles are covered by horizontal legislation, particularly in the directives on hygiene and control.
We have improved the relevant provisions following your amendment at first reading.
We also foresee adopting specific technical rules with regard to the margins of tolerance for the amounts of vitamins and minerals declared to be present in food supplements.
We believe that these rules are important for ensuring the quality of these products.
I am firmly of the view that this array of horizontal and specific rules fully covers all concerns expressed that these products should be manufactured to high-quality standards.
However, I reiterate that I will give priority to adopting the technical rules on margins of tolerance mentioned in Article 9(1).
Amendment No 6 refers to the criteria that will be used for setting the maximum levels for vitamins and minerals in food supplements.
The text of Article 5 is now carefully balanced.
Finally, Amendment No 8 proposes an addition to the text that concerns principles for the functioning of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health and of the Scientific Panels of the European Food Safety Authority.
But I repeat and emphasise that the role of the European Food Safety Authority in this area will be of paramount importance and that this work will be done by independent scientists.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2, 6 and 8 and certainly does not support Amendment No 7, that calls for the rejection of the common position.
The debate is closed.
I am very pleased to see that the Council and the Commission are now in agreement with the European Parliament on the fundamental principles.
Every day that passes without clear ground rules, more and more small and medium-sized companies are in danger of being forced to shut down.
Let me first talk about Amendment No 25, which is a compromise.
However, the amendment does give the Member States which currently permit the use of catering waste under extremely carefully controlled conditions a transitional period of four years.
This is therefore a practical way of dealing with this issue.
Amendment No 5 is about the marking of category 2 material.
If the amendment were to be adopted, all fertiliser - natural fertiliser - within the EU would have to be marked, and this would affect approximately 1 200 000 000 tonnes a year.
On the other hand, catering waste in category 3 should be handled under existing structures and systems for collection, transport and disposal in line with the EU's waste directive.
The common position contains a somewhat strange proposal regarding endangered species of necrophagous birds, namely lammergeiers in Spain.
Amendment 15 concerns the separation of facilities.
I can accept separate buildings if they really are separate - and not just separate parts of one building under the same roof.
There are also a number of amendments which were rejected by the committee and which, for various reasons, should be rejected once more.
On the contrary, Article 6.2 says that national legislation in this area should apply until new EU environmental legislation is passed.
The only point of the reference in Article 1.2 is to give the Commission legal justification for requesting scientific statements on biogas and composting.
I am pleased that my group has been able to sign all the compromise amendments, with the exception of Compromise Amendment No 25.
We very much support the ban on the use of catering waste in animal feed, not least because the likely cause of the foot and mouth disease outbreak in the United Kingdom was the use of pigswill as feed.
However, two problems emerge from this situation.
Unfortunately, we will not be able to hide this oil behind the piles of fridges currently found in my own country and I am afraid that much of this oil will find its way into the drains of the country, causing environmental damage and also, I suggest, public health problems as it congeals and solidifies in the sewers of our major cities.
We should recognise the situation in Germany and Austria and allow an extension on the use of some of these brand new plants.
Compromise Amendment No 25 contradicts this because it calls for a four-year extension on the use of these plants.
If, as I have been advised, the authors of the original amendment were to propose an oral amendment stating that this new legislative proposal could come forward in four years' time, then this would avoid such a contradiction.
That would be a good way forward and my group would be prepared to support such a move.
Mr President, it is indeed a remarkable situation in which we find ourselves today.
In Germany, there are modern high-performance facilities which undertake state-of-the-art sterilisation of catering waste then recycle it into animal feed.
But it must then apply to all Member States.
If I appeal tomorrow for us to support all the compromise amendments, I shall be doing so because they are compromises.
I would, however, like to draw attention to one point, and that is Amendment No 15.
Now we have tabled a compromise amendment, Amendment 22, where exceptions are made for catering waste in category 3, and we submit Amendment 25 in which some Member States are permitted to feed catering waste for a transitional period of a maximum of four years.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by expressing my sincere thanks to all the honourable Members whose hard work and constructive attitudes have brought us to this point.
The crucial task now is to find a suitable means of meeting the needs of a multifunctional agricultural system as well as those of consumers.
In accordance with the subsidiarity principle, I therefore call for the preservation of the tried and tested national systems for the disposal and recycling of organic waste.
The collection and use of biogenetic waste for the purposes of composting or for use in a biogas plant are highly commendable from an environmental point of view and must therefore remain possible in future.
The Austrian example shows that application of the highest possible standards of hygiene, coupled with official monitoring, banishes any concerns regarding a possible risk of epizootic disease.
In recent years, 250 new decoction facilities have been built in Austria.
I shall therefore lend my support to all compromise amendments that guarantee the continued existence of proven monitored systems for the recycling of organic waste.
I consider it very important that we formulate our decisions on this sensitive subject in such a way that the general public can follow our reasoning.
She always manages to steer between national positions and never loses sight of that corpus of food safety legislation which we are slowly bringing together.
I would like to look at the very wide definition of catering waste in the annexes and in Amendments 22 to 25.
The rapporteur has brought the two together in a complex series of amendments culminating in No 25, which I will support.
Therefore, Commissioner, we really would like a statement of intent on whether the four-year transition period is achievable.
I think, however, that we are going too far in a number of areas.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome the Commission's initiative to introduce uniform European rules on the use of animal by-products.
The feeding of untreated kitchen and restaurant waste has often been regarded in the past as a possible source of swine fever and foot and mouth disease.
This requires a system for the conditional authorisation of catering waste for use as animal feed, a system that can be closely monitored.
However, the draft text submitted to Parliament at second reading - and I am referring to Article 4 here - indicates that all matter of animal origin collected during processing waste water in slaughterhouses and other premises must be classified as category 1, and this wording and change in the text gives us cause for concern.
The costs incurred by these new restrictions would force many slaughterhouses and cutting rooms throughout the European Union to close down their business that has become increasingly difficult in the wake of the various crises that we have experienced.
Our common goal is to restore complete consumer confidence and levels of safety.
The traditional, common sense way in which catering waste is used for feeding has for the present unfortunately proved problematic as a result of inadequacies in the processing of feed.
For that reason Parliament now requires the Commission to promptly submit a legislative proposal banning the use of catering waste of animal origin as feed and obliging Member States to provide proof of its safe disposal.
Parliament can also feel pleased with how the codecision procedure works and the cooperation established with the Council in the area of food safety.
In this respect the Council should be capable of making the right decisions swiftly and showing consumers that the long-term work done to guarantee the supply of safe food is more important that seeking to obtain short-term benefits for individual countries in the Council.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss this report dealing with animal by-products that are not intended for human consumption, we must not speak exclusively of waste products.
Strict rules govern the procedure for such recycling.
The directive on swine fever enters into force on 1 November and imposes a blanket ban on the feeding of catering waste.
May I reiterate my sincere thanks to Mrs Paulsen for this report?
It is a matter of the safety of our food chain, which is, after all, very closely connected with the health of consumers.
The continued absence of a sound, comprehensive and regulatory framework to deal with these by-products is quite dangerous.
A great many of the key provisions of the regulation under discussion result from her personal commitment and determination.
I am greatly encouraged that all three institutions are in general agreement on three key principles: the requirement that only animal by-products derived from animals fit for human consumption should be used in feed, cosmetic and pharmaceutical products; the prohibition of intra-species recycling; and the need to tighten certain provisions in order to improve the control and traceability of animal by-products.
However, I regret that, despite the very good progress made on the proposal, the question of how to deal with catering waste remains a main obstacle to final agreement.
The feeding of catering waste carries a major threat of transmission of serious animal diseases such as foot and mouth disease and classical swine fever.
I might also add that the outbreak of classical swine fever in the Netherlands in 1997 was also caused by the feeding of pigswill in neighbouring Germany.
They have already decided on a ban in the swine fever directive, despite several opportunities to reconsider the need for a ban.
Similarly, how can Parliament ask to exclude catering waste from the strict control rules of the regulation, fearing that these rules would compromise the practice of composting, and at the same time demand that the Commission propose a new regulation on the safe disposal of catering waste?
The Commission, having heard the insistence of 13 Member States on the necessity for a ban, and in the interests of consistency, remains opposed to any relaxation of an outright ban in this regulation.
We must therefore reject Amendments Nos 1, 10 and 25.
We are also opposed to these amendments on institutional grounds, as the insistence on a deadline and on the content of future proposals undermines the Commission's right of initiative.
I would also refer you to Article 32, which might give further assistance in this area.
Turning to the details, we cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 and 5 on the requirement of the marking of unprocessed category 1 and 2 material.
We can, however, accept Amendments Nos 22 and 23 on catering waste making reference to environmental legislation, as they would ensure that the goals of the regulation are achieved without undermining separate collection schemes.
Therefore, Amendments Nos 17 and 19 are unnecessary and cannot be supported by us.
Amendments Nos 22 and 23 also clarify that the highest risk catering waste from international means of transport should remain subject to the control rules of Article 7.
Therefore, they are preferable to Amendments Nos 7 and 8.
We cannot accept Amendment No 18, aimed at excluding household kitchen waste from the definition of catering waste, as this is would be inconsistent with the existing EU legislation on classical swine fever.
However, Amendment No 21, which has the same objective but is clearer, is acceptable.
Amendment No 4 cannot be accepted as, when combined with Amendment No 2 or with Amendment No 21, it would be superfluous and confusing.
We can support Amendment No 24 aiming to extend the derogation on the feeding of certain animals with category 1 material to endangered and protected species of, for example, vultures.
We cannot accept Amendment No 11, as it would extend that derogation to any endangered or protected species.
We can support Amendment No 20 requiring Member States to submit a report on the implementation of the Regulation, except for the reference to the lifting of the ban on meat- and bonemeal.
Similarly, we can support the principle of Amendment No 13, which has the same objective as the first part of Amendment No 20, subject to editorial change.
Finally, we can accept Amendments Nos 6, 12, 15 and 16 to various articles and annexes, as they are in line with the basic objectives of the Regulation.
Mr President, Commissioner, the real reason it has been possible to draw up the European Parliament's own-initiative report on the implementation of the directive on urban waste-water treatment is that we in the Committee on the Environment concerned ourselves with this directive and followed its development very closely.
With this report we have shown that there are serious shortcomings in the implementation of this directive, despite the fact that it has been in force for a long time - it is more than ten years old - and that, furthermore, it is extremely important for all European legislation on water.
In 1998 there were many agglomerations of more than 150 000 inhabitants that had still not resolved the issue of waste-water treatment.
We know that throughout this time the approach of the Member States has been so carefree, having implemented neither this nor other directives on the issue of water, that I believe Member States have been censured on more than 42 occasions for failing to comply with 17 directives in the field of waste water.
I should like to say that, initially, this report had an annex, which, following two debates in committee, we were forced to remove, because the data that the Commission had supplied us with was wrong.
In our view, the Commission has shown neither the necessary strength nor will in this case to demand that the Member States provide data and demand that they comply with this directive.
I wish to say, Commissioner, that when we in the Committee on the Environment requested that this own-initiative report be drawn up, what we really wanted was for you to consider us as your ally, in order to strengthen the binding nature of this directive and to enable the Commission to force the Member States to comply more energetically with the directive.
In this report we ask you to admonish the Member States, to initiate proceedings against those that have not complied and to continue using all legal means within your power, all in order to ensure that this legislation is complied with.
Lastly, we ask you to adopt all necessary measures to ensure that, with the proper will to create such legislation, and the willingness to provide as much information as possible, compliance with this legislation can be enforced.
These have shown us that the Member States are also failing to comply with other environmental directives.
As my honourable colleague Mrs Sornosa Martínez has said, we must conclude today that not all Member States have made use of the time at their disposal; on the contrary, they have engaged in delaying tactics and - regrettably, in view of their failure to submit reports, we must also say quite bluntly - in obfuscation.
The fine report compiled by Mrs Sornosa Martínez mercilessly exposes the inadequacies.
Most Member States have not even fulfilled their reporting obligations for the first date in 1998, let alone for the second date in 2000.
As Members of Parliament, we too should take action in our own countries.
The call for wider direct powers of on-the-spot scrutiny for the Commission in the Member States, enabling it to intervene in the same way that it can already intervene in the realm of agriculture, is vehemently rejected by most of the Member States.
It is estimated that an eleven-figure sum in euros is needed for investments alone in the 15 Member States.
Current estimates also put the cost of implementing this one directive in the applicant countries at about EUR 30 billion.
Mr President, very briefly, this is a very sorry story.
I am told that in the United Kingdom between 1989 and 2005, GBP 26 billion will be spent on upgrading the water system to deal with this directive.
One of our problems is not only that the Commission does not produce impact assessments, but that the Member States are not honest about their capacity to put in place what they sign up to.
What we really need is a system whereby each Member State is asked at a Council meeting whether or not it can comply with the legislation that its ministers are about to sign up to.
A very good place to start would be the new directive on packaging waste.
I have examined the information on the Member States' implementation of the directive and share very many of the opinions put forward by Parliament in its resolution.
Water quality has improved in larger rivers and many lakes but, nevertheless, the majority of Member States have either not done enough or they have acted too late.
They have also been late in submitting information on the implementation of the directive, which has slowed down the Commission's assessment work.
The Commission has already responded to most of the demands in the resolution.
Thank you Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
