Madam President, I would like inform you and this House that two citizens of my country, from my region - Castilla y León - have been held captive in Georgia since 30 November of last year.
Certainly, Mrs Redondo Jiménez.
Preparation for European Council (Göteborg 15/16 June 2001) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the preparation of the European Council in Gothenburg on 15 and 16 June 2001.
Since then we have had an in-depth and constructive discussion on future issues for Europe, the three "E' s" of Enlargement, Employment, Environment, openness and reforms, crisis management and conflict prevention, the future, democracy, development and human rights.
The credibility of the entire European Union rests on the completion of our work programme which, six months ago, was seen to be highly ambitious, by some even unrealistic.
We have also laid a sound foundation regarding central issues such as nuclear safety, food safety and land transport and completed chapters which were actually to be dealt with in the autumn according to our road map.
We held ministerial meetings with all the applicant countries on Monday and Tuesday.
They were all very pleased with the progress achieved during the negotiations.
The progress we have seen during negotiations with the applicant countries would not have been possible if these countries had not implemented major reforms and put a great deal of work into meeting our requirements.
Secondly, we all have a responsibility to send a clear message that the Treaty of Nice will be implemented and ratification will continue in other countries.
I would just like to add that the report for Gothenburg describes all the initiatives from Member States, applicant countries and institutions, especially Parliament' s resolution of 31 May.
The Gothenburg Summit will receive a report on progress within the ESDP and a European programme for conflict prevention.
However, the enlargement process must not be held up.
The Commission is ready to make an active contribution to this structure.
Let me now return to my two original topics: sustainable development and enlargement.
Our proposal brings these objectives together in a single, integrated strategy that seeks to find long-term solutions to the issues which are of real concern to our fellow citizens.
Let me give you just a few examples of what we want to achieve at Gothenburg.
This will be a long-term process which cannot be decided all at once, but the line we are to take must be clear and consistent right from the very beginning.
As regards transport policy, we intend to break the link between economic growth and the indiscriminate growth in road transport.
I have never ceased to stress that enlargement is our historic duty: the duty of my Commission, of course, but also, in my view, the duty of Parliament.
The single market, the introduction of the euro, the now tangible fruit of the reform of our public finances and the progress we are making in economic and social reform all combine to make this a very opportune moment for enlargement.
We are keeping to the principles of differentiation and progress according to merit, allowing countries that began negotiating in 2000 to catch up with those that began earlier.
Thus, I have every reason to believe that we will succeed in concluding negotiations with the best-prepared candidates by the end of 2002 and complete ratification in time for the European elections in 2004.
The Gothenburg Council should therefore note our progress and lay down the necessary guidelines for completing the negotiations.
These are undoubtedly complex areas, but it is now clear that, in some cases, transitional periods will help to overcome some of the difficulties.
The Commission is therefore ready to propose the necessary technical solutions and the necessary political compromises.
Ladies and gentlemen, the need for public support is clear.
Enlargement will be the driving force of our economy and the labour market for the whole of the next generation.
Ladies and gentlemen, enlargement and sustainability are thus the two keys to Europe's future.
As the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we think that, because of the present uncertainties, because of the confusion, because the central European countries are worried about their membership, the message to come out of Gothenburg must be that the central European countries are welcome in the European Union and that the enlargement of the European Union is now our top priority.
Our group has long favoured the first new countries' being able to take part in the next European elections in 2004, and rightly so.
A minority of 300 000 people live there.
Naturally, we need solutions that serve the interests of the European Union, but they must also be in the interests of the candidate countries.
But if you are in favour of openness and transparency and two or three governments voice their opposition, name them openly so that they are forced to justify their opposition. (Applause) The American president, George Bush, will be in Gothenburg.
I urge you, Madam President-in-Office, and of course you too, Mr President of the Commission, to state in a measured but decisive manner that we Europeans want the Kyoto protocol and the reduction of emissions to be a success.
Sweden has proved herself and her Presidency has been successful in many areas.
With you, we have been able to begin to update our relations with the Council, which were still at the level of the Single European Act - I am referring to codecision and the presence of the Council in plenary sittings - I believe that this should be welcomed as a positive step in our relations.
Like you, I regret that lack of time has meant that we have not been able to hold the debate on human rights today, but, in any event, human rights are a permanent element of our political commitment.
I would especially like to highlight the progress made in relation to sustainable development and in the social field, one very important element of which has been, after twenty years, to unblock the directive on information and the participation of workers.
The French National Assembly yesterday ratified the Treaty of Nice.
This means, as from the beginning of this European Union process, that we have to find a balance between our interests - or if you like, our egotism - and solidarity between all of us.
Therefore, on behalf of my Group, I have asked the President of the Commission for a Commission statement on economic and social cohesion and enlargement.
Then we would have to consider how we can strengthen cohesion and solidarity between all of us on the basis of the principles in the Treaties.
I believe that this requires the Commission to participate, by exercising its responsibility and its right of initiative.
In my relatively long political experience within the European Union, this is the first time that we have proposed conclusions to the Council which the normal citizen can read, because they are generally written in what the French call langue de bois, a totally cryptic style.
The proposal of the French Presidency does justice to what the European Parliament has said, to what the COSAC has said, and there is explicit support for the convention method - you are prudent and talk about a 'forum' .
Madam President, I would like to make a final comment about the visit of President Bush.
In this respect also I would ask Mr Poettering to speak with his political friends in the governments in order to achieve a process of reducing tension, which is essential to the future of humanity.
It is important that, in the transatlantic dialogue, we continue to champion the values and the desire for sustainability that we all share and believe in.
Your personal efforts and the work with the High Representative, Commissioner Patten and others, particularly in Macedonia, where the situation remains so explosive and difficult, show impressive commitment towards pressing ahead with a common foreign and security policy.
All of these areas and, of course, the work you have undertaken with the European Parliament on enhancing transparency, should be recognised as matters of importance and substance.
I acknowledge, of course, as you have reported, the heightened anxieties of the representatives of the candidate countries following the Irish "no" to Nice.
It is very important for me to state here today, particularly as an Irish European, that whatever the complex set of motives and reasons behind it, the "no" to Nice did not signify a "no" to enlargement.
It has become more necessary now to reassure, act and deliver on the enlargement agenda.
The number of "no" voters in Ireland has not grown.
It is important that we have this period of deep reflection.
Indeed, paradoxically, the Danish instrument of ratification of Nice will be lodged in Rome today; the French, as we have heard, have also ratified the Treaty.
In Ireland the Commission is regarded as an honest broker - someone who can always help when there are delicate textual and substantial political issues to be considered.
This is a very great pity as I know that Sweden is very dedicated to human rights policy and now this opportunity to enter into dialogue with Sweden has unfortunately passed.
Madam President, to my group Gothenburg is above all a summit on sustainable development.
The theme of sustainable development must not be overshadowed by a prominent guest but must now be taken seriously.
The Kyoto Protocol is absolutely the key issue in Gothenburg.
Enlargement is also on the agenda at Gothenburg and my group would certainly like to emphasise that enlargement must continue irrespective of the result of the Irish referendum.
This means that candidate countries too must be able to be fully included in this process.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, it is too soon for any exhaustive analysis of the Irish 'no' to the Treaty of Nice.
Yet it is possible to make a few comments on it without too much risk of being mistaken.
The first concerns the official reactions to this bombshell, which took all the leading European figures by surprise.
Nearly three quarters of the Irish population said 'yes' to the Community when their country joined in 1972 and today the same proportion is refusing to say 'yes' to the EU Treaty of Nice - yet the national and European leaders did not even see it coming.
At the same time, the federalist overstatement of the ongoing institutional debate has played its part in creating confusion in countries that want to protect their place, their role and their identity in a future large complex of which they can perceive neither the nature nor the contours.
Next, this time we would do well to hold an in-depth debate with the citizens of all our countries on the kind of Europe to build and on the political, institutional and financial implications of our decisions.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, it is with great pleasure that I offer my congratulations to the Swedish presidency on the tremendous successes it has achieved on behalf of us all.
The European leaders in Göteborg will address two primary subjects, namely the enlargement of the European Union and how best to solve many of our environmental problems.
With regard to enlargement, it is most important that the European Union and the applicant countries get down to negotiating the more difficult chapters, which to date have remained closed.
It is in the interest of all the contracting parties that the bottom-line issues that remain outstanding are debated, resolved and finalised.
I am very disappointed at the result of this referendum in Ireland but I fully respect the outcome of this democratic process.
I welcome the conclusions of this week's Council meeting of EU Foreign Ministers; they too stated that the will of the Irish people must be respected.
I firmly believe that the vast majority of the Irish people are committed to the enlargement process and I do not want to see the timeframe for the enlargement of the European Union to include countries from Eastern and Central Europe delayed as a direct consequence of the decision of the Irish people last week.
This referendum undoubtedly underlines the need for greater efforts to be made by all of us to explain European Union policies to our citizens and to involve the citizens of the EU more thoroughly in the debate about the Union's role and its future direction.
It is incumbent on the Commission and all the 15 governments of the Union also to reflect upon this result.
We must build a European Union that commands the good will and support and enthusiasm of the 370 million citizens who make up the membership of the Union.
This forum will undertake the process of consultation and dialogue on EU policy with the Irish public on matters of concern to them.
This forum is also part of the debate on the overall future of Europe that is ongoing in all 15 Member States of the European Union in the run-up to the next Intergovernmental Conference in 2004.
It is very timely, therefore, that this summit will be addressing key environmental issues which need to be tackled, both within the Union and in a more global context.
The fact of the matter is that we need to reduce the level of greenhouse gases that are being produced in Europe and in the United States.
This is very important if we are to ensure a halt to the depletion of the ozone layer.
The EU countries have jointly and unanimously decided upon the ground rules which clearly state that a treaty only comes into force once it has been ratified by all the Member States.
We call upon all countries at least to take a break from the ratification procedure and to reflect upon the reasons for the 'no' vote.
The declaration is a common position and not a part of the Treaty, and it has not therefore been thrown out in the referendum.
We feel that it is especially important that this matter is tackled resolutely and thoroughly in Gothenburg - as the Swedish Presidency intends to do - in the presence of President Bush as well.
There is nothing left to analyse: studies have been carried out and they show that the planet is in danger and that it is therefore necessary to act and do so quickly.
I would also, Madam President, like to talk about transparency.
The Irish referendum has shown that the system is absurd.
We cannot negotiate over Gothenburg or Nice in the same way that we negotiated over Westphalia when Swedish and other troops were fighting the 30 Years War.
Diplomatic negotiations have had their day: a European Union must be negotiated between citizens, between members of parliament, between players in internal affairs within our Union.
Mr Persson is in danger of messing up in true southern Italian style if he distributes all the responsibilities at Gothenburg, maybe giving the Food Agency to Helsinki, to a country which, I would argue, is the least suitable location for it.
Practise transparency in this as well and, if time runs short, carry the issue over to the next summit to allow time for a more public, more open debate on the location of these major European agencies.
Mr President, the foreign ministers of the EU countries who chose to continue with the ratification of the Treaty of Nice on Monday, as though the Irish had never said 'no' in the referendum, opted for the worst solution.
The 'no' vote in the Irish referendum, like the 'no' vote in the Danish referendum last September, is a warning.
That is what we propose in our counter-report on the Treaty of Nice.
This is the way it should be, but there is also a social dimension.
All this is required for sustainable development.
But we must also act globally.
The enlargement process must continue, we must set deadlines with the aim of applicant countries being ready to take part in European Parliament elections in 2004.
The main theme of Gothenburg will be sustainable development, and in this context the Kyoto Protocol will be brought up.
It is easier to negotiate once one has "put ones own house in order" .
As faith in the EU fades, as was shown in Ireland' s rejection of the Treaty of Nice, a fundamental debate is required on the future of Europe, a debate without preconditions in which European civil society can take part.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating the Irish people on the result of the referendum on the Treaty of Nice.
The people of Ireland voted no to the Treaty of Nice.
As such, it was also a vote for a better and more democratic Europe.
Mr President, on 28 September last year the Danes plainly said 'no' to the euro.
The Irish referendum and, even earlier than that, the Danish referendum are evidence of a certain hostility towards Europe on the part of the European citizens, at least on the part of those who were able to vote.
The Irish vote demands sensible reaction and analysis, even if only 33% of the electorate voted.
We do not just need a public debate on the reform of the Union; we need more democracy and greater transparency on an integration process which is becoming ever more complex.
The Irish people have spoken.
The answer is "no".
They must analyse it and not treat it as an irrelevancy, sending a message that with or without Ireland they will proceed.
If that were the case, they would not need ratification from all 15 Member States.
Please believe me when I say that I do not believe that the Irish people wish to deny the accession countries the opportunities and support that we as a small under-developed country have experienced and put to great use over the last three decades.
There was an assumption that the outcome was a fait accompli.
Perhaps that explains why our government did so little, took the electorate for granted and was content to mine the Eurosceptic vote for the forthcoming general election, with several ministers in recent months giving very ambivalent signals.
Commissioner Solbes Mira's reprimand angered middle Ireland and raised fears of Europe meddling in our tax affairs.
The list is endless - take your pick.
They are all issues worthy of debate, but nothing to do with the Nice Treaty.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I very much hope that Gothenburg will be an opportunity for the Swedish Presidency to present a proper review of achievements.
Mr President, the talk is of a Danish solution for Ireland.
Mr Bonde has voted against every scrap of European cooperation.
To do so would be to show contempt for the voice of the people, not just in Ireland, but throughout Europe.
The rejection of the Treaty of Nice by the Irish people is not a rejection of enlargement.
I did not know how that decision was made.
The public in the Member States are sceptical about the workings of the EU, or even totally indifferent to them.
After all, the question is whether the Nice Treaty would survive a referendum in other Member States.
The Treaty of Nice not only damages the Irish people's interest but those of every small nation in Europe, the applicant countries included.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I was astounded when I heard the outcome of the General Affairs Council meeting last Monday.
And that is something that the Irish Government has not done for the time being so, politically speaking at any rate, we have, in reality, the period up until the end of 2002 to see if we can get the Treaty of Nice ratified.
It is also important, however, for us to have a discussion about grassroots support, which was the Swedish Presidency' s third key point.
That is completely unacceptable to the democratic process and our government is guilty of treachery in its approach to the Irish vote.
Enlargement can go ahead, but we want it to be fair and equitable.
We would like to see the new Member States come in under the same conditions as those offered to Ireland.
Instead, the doors have been tightly closed to keep those countries out until the rules are changed to suit the big and wealthy countries in Europe.
I think we should at least prepare such an option, so as to avoid delaying enlargement and sending out the wrong message and giving rise to uncertainty in the candidate countries between now and November 2002.
We must ensure that the post-Nice process is speeded up through public debate and a convention and can be wrapped up by the end of 2003, as the Méndez de Vigo/Seguro report suggests.
For the rest, I would advise the governments in the Member States to take a good look at this report, because it contains a whole series of tips on how to manage this crisis.
Not one single political party in Ireland argued against enlargement, either on the "no" side or the "yes" side: only one organisation - a non-party organisation which campaigned for "no" - argued against enlargement.
The Irish people has spoken on Nice and its decision will be respected.
Those parties who supported Nice should seek a mandate at the next general election, which will take place by June 2002, to present a new proposal on Nice to the people before December 2002.
John Cushnahan and I have published a seven-point initiative on measures, which could help to clarify the issues and to assuage fears in Ireland.
I am happy to report that one of those initiatives, the establishment of a forum in Ireland on the future of Europe, has been adopted by the Irish Government.
That is a proposal which I tabled in December 2000 after Nice.
People know that the European project is necessary and important, but they are at a loss as to how they fit into the scheme of things.
The bottom line is that if we want people in Europe in every country to initiate a new experiment in sharing their democracy, sovereignty, benefits of freedoms, then we, as their elected representatives have to lead courageously by spelling out in great detail how it will work.
In conclusion, the rights of each Member State and each person who lives in Europe must be guaranteed.
Mr President, it is ten years since our Heads of Government discussed sustainable development at a summit meeting.
The European Parliament voted by a 95% majority for Europe to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, even without the United States.
But President Bush' s energy plan for more oil, more coal, more gas and more nuclear power stations is going to destroy the climate all over the world.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that you will leave this meeting happy because we are telling you that you are entering the final exam at Gothenburg well prepared.
Madam President-in-Office, my closing point concerns a very sad and dramatic situation emanating from the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The Nice Treaty must in time cease to exist.
In these circumstances no treaty in these circumstances is better than a bad treaty.
Instead we now urgently need to hold a genuine, substantial debate about the future of the European Union.
This process will only be successful, however, if all European citizens are involved and consulted on these essential issues.
By the end of 2003 at the latest, the national parliaments should then be able to ratify either the relevant provisions of the Nice Treaty or those of the convention.
Europe and its institutions can only be built with the long-lasting support of its peoples.
As we specified in Parliament' s decision, sustainability must be seen in a global context.
The Commission, the Council and Parliament have the task of involving the citizens in this process, as President Prodi has stressed.
Finally, we must be committed to the Middle East peace process.
I feel that the European Union will be able to play a major role in this matter.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the 15 Heads of State and Government will be meeting this week for the European Council that will close the Swedish presidency of the Union, a presidency everyone agrees struck a positive note, especially in regard to transparency and citizens' access to information.
This summit will also have to evaluate the unexpected results of the Irish referendum on ratifying the Treaty of Nice.
If there is a message in this vote, it concerns the urgent need to hold a real, popular grass-roots debate on these issues.
We hope the Treaty of Nice will enter into force before the end of the year 2002, so that the Union can welcome the new Member States in 2004, as it has undertaken to do.
All the existing Member States must hasten to ratify this treaty without delay, and I am glad that by its vote in the National Assembly yesterday, France is now one of the first countries to do so.
Our priority, which the Gothenburg European Council must solemnly reiterate, remains to prepare for enlargement.
Parliament has played a vital role so far, for example with its requirement that the applicant countries will be able to take part in the European Parliament elections in 2004.
It is a common responsibility and common lesson for us all.
However, in order not to damage the European project any further and not to weaken faith in the Union, we must also move forward on ratification of the Treaty of Nice and enlargement.
It is also important for enlargement that the process of addressing the points at issue continues.
Many people have also mentioned sustainable development and the environmental issues.
Our duty is not to make exceptions for some countries: our duty will be to apply the rules to small and large countries alike, for the Commission's duty is to be the guardian of the interests of all the European peoples and countries.
In my opinion, this must change and, I repeat, it is a compulsory step for all democratic institutions: they must be able to count on clearly-defined resources - which can, of course, be transfers from national taxes to European taxes but must be clearly defined and specifically dedicated to the European institutions - and to answer equally transparently to the European citizens.
If we use these methods, the attitude of the European peoples will become much more positive and much more sympathetic, for they will understand what we are doing with their trust and their money.
Finally, we must also take the lesson of the Irish referendum and the subsequent deliberations to heart.
And the convention is - or will be - the first tentative stage in this new era for the European institutions.
Thank you very much, Mr Prodi.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
We are terribly concerned when Mexicans die in the Arizona desert, but we are completely indifferent to the fact that people looking for work in Europe continually die off our coasts.
I believe it is high time that this Parliament and the other European institutions took measures to combat this serious problem which affects all of us.
We shall take note of what you say, Mr Nogueira.
There is no mention of the Blokland report on the Commission communication: on bringing our needs and responsibilities together - integrating environmental issues with economic policy.
Council Regulation (EEC) 3528/86 on the protection of the Community's forests against atmospheric pollution (14644/1/2000 REV 1 - C5-0072/2001 - 1999/0159(COD)) II.
Before the vote on Amendments Nos 47, 48 and 49 Madam President, before we vote on Article 26, colleagues have pointed out to me that the English wording of my Amendment No 47, which I hope the House will adopt, is not entirely clear in other languages.
I believe that is not clear in every language.
Certainly, Mr Harbour.
Madam President, I refer to the vote on paragraph 21, not the proposed amendment.
Mr Sakellariou, I have had it confirmed that it was adopted by a large majority.
The wording of paragraph 23 is therefore incorrect.
Secondly, because abolishing tobacco subsidies in order to combat smoking is a hypocritical approach.
It is hypocritical because any such measures in a European Union with a tobacco deficit will achieve two objectives: first, they will punish tobacco farmers in southern Europe and, secondly, they will strengthen tobacco farmers in other, third countries, from which tobacco will be imported to make up the resultant tobacco shortage, which in turn will affect the balance of trade of the European Union.
Thirdly, because there are areas in Europe, such as the prefecture of Xanthi in northern Greece, where the rare Basma variety of tobacco has been the only crop cultivated for several generations and where it is the sole means of support for over 20,000 farmers who work in small, remote, mountain plots measuring between 30 and 300 square metres, where nothing else will grow, and who will be plunged into total poverty if the ideas being promoted are put into practice.
Madam President, I voted for this resolution on the forthcoming Gothenburg Council because it contains an important point on the undertaking to secure pensions in Europe - as the report says - which are sustainable and enable those who have worked to live a dignified life.
I feel that Europe must be close to its citizens, not just in terms of the economy but also when they have finished working and have a right to a pension which allows them to live comfortably even when they are too old to continue working.
Madam President, I voted against this resolution.
There is one point that I voted against in the roll-call votes, in relation to the US missile defence system.
We should oppose it at every opportunity rather than saying: just keep us informed about it.
I voted "against".
Madam President, the young people of Europe see this Gothenburg appointment as extremely important, for the Treaty of Nice and the Irish referendum are in danger of compromising the future of many of them.
This, therefore, is why, in expressing an opinion on the Gothenburg Summit, we have called upon the Council - and it is an appeal that I am also making in this explanation of vote to you, Madam President, who will be going to Gothenburg and who will certainly be able to refer this request with great authority, given that it would appear to come from Parliament - for a change of direction, for it to be taken into account that we cannot conduct European politics or achieve European unity in the same way as the diplomats of the 16th and 17th centuries.
Madam President, I voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the preparation of the Göteborg Summit because paragraph 8 thereof, on the future of the Union, calls for a Convention to be established to prepare the forthcoming IGC at the end of 2003 or 2004.
Basques, Corsicans, Sardinians, etc.
In all more than 50 million people will have no opportunity to participate in this debate.
However, in reality, the summit will be held under the shadow of the recent referendum in Ireland, in which the people rejected the Nice Treaty.
The state of the European economy, the fall in the euro and other economic issues will be addressed with even stricter anti-grass roots measures than before, at the expense of the workers, by speeding up capital restructuring and hitting the insurance systems, so as to safeguard the competitiveness and profitability of big business in Europe, thereby creating more poverty, unemployment and insecurity for the people of Europe.
But these individual explanations do not suffice.
There is only one real reason for the open or underlying 'no' vote: the Irish people's wish to retain their freedom of decision faced with an invasive Europe, which would become even more so with the Treaty of Nice.
That may be true, but we certainly must not conclude from this that in future we will have to take these powers away from the governments and introduce more supra-national methods of preparing or reviewing treaties.
The future certainly lies in the unification of Europe, of the whole of Europe, on the basis of total equality between its peoples and the abolition of borders.
Not one political party campaigned against enlargement.
The Irish people have spoken on Nice and their decision will be respected.
The people of the other 14 member states are also entitled to have their say on the treaty in accordance with their constitutions.
As a democracy where the people are sovereign, the Irish people are also entitled to decide to revisit their decision to confirm it or to reverse it.
Myself and my colleague, John Cushnahan have published a seven-point initiative on measures, which we feel could help to clarify the issues and to assuage fears in Ireland.
The bottom line is that if we want people in every European country to initiate a new experiment in sharing their democracy, sharing their sovereignty, sharing the benefits of their freedoms, then we as their elected representatives have to lead courageously by spelling out in great detail how it will all work.
The rights of each and every nation state and each and every single person who lives in Europe must be guaranteed.
With reference to paragraphs 35 and 36, I do not believe that a military alliance which is based on the possession and threatened use of nuclear weapons can be a force for "security and stability".
Secondly, I am totally opposed to the proposals for the US missile defence system - a system which would be banned under the 1972 ABM Treaty and will increase international tension.
In a democracy, the results of a move such as this must be respected.
Ireland' s recent rejection of this treaty shows, once again, that Europe cannot be built without the consent of its people.
In Gothenburg, the future of Europe will be played out not in palaces turned into bunkers but on the streets, with the progressive forces. . (NL) There is a big difference between the Europe the leaders want and the Europe the public wants.
Quite rightly, a number of the motions for a resolution tabled regarding the forthcoming Gothenburg Summit press for a stronger environmental policy, a social Europe and respect for the rights of the Albanians in Macedonia.
This week, the European Union is dedicating a whole Council meeting to it in Gothenburg.
It will have to both adopt new policies for sustainable development for the European Union and also launch the bases for the worldwide strategy that is to be adopted in Johannesburg.
The fact that the Swedish government has decided to end its Presidency of the European Union with a Council dedicated to sustainable development deserves our applause - it could be said, in fact, that in terms of the political agenda, this Presidency has been a genuine breath of fresh air.
Equally worthy of applause is the document drafted by the European Commission as a basis for that Council, 'a Sustainable Europe for a Better World' .
We would like to see the current elements of the Community acquis implemented first, and then a broader debate held with the citizens of the Union in order to clear up doubts and allay fears before we move on to new institutional phases.
This is why we have abstained in the vote. . (FI) Besides the fact that I voted for the communication on the Gothenburg European Council meeting, I would like to state the following as my explanation of vote: For the first time, environmental issues are the main issue before the European Council this week in Gothenburg.
In Gothenburg, the leaders of the EU must do their utmost to change the negative decision on Kyoto made by the US.
Serious consideration must be given to the Irish decision to vote against ratification of the Treaty of Nice.
In a sign of complete disregard for the dignity of the people, even before knowing the final result of the vote in which the Irish people expressed their views, Commissioner Verheugen dared to make the peremptory statement in relation to Ljubljana that an 'Irish veto' would in no way prevent the enlargement of the European Union as provided for in the Treaty of Nice.
As for the Foreign Ministers' Council, since 11 June it has dismissed any possibility of renegotiating the Treaty of Nice to take account of the clearly expressed wishes of the Irish people.
The Göteborg meeting of the Heads of State and Government will primarily be about enlargement.
The most important issue for this summit is to achieve a breakthrough in the enlargement negotiations.
The challenge for Europe in the 1980s was to build a single market.
Enlargement is crucial for increasing trade, employment and prosperity for all, for helping to improve environmental standards and reducing cross-border pollution, for promoting effective cooperation in the fight against crime and drugs, for improving minority rights, and for enhancing peace, democracy and stability in Europe.
This is an important message to take to our citizens in the European Union, who should be aware of the advantages and consequences of enlargement.
Environmental issues are a top priority for our citizens across the European Union.
Furthermore, we must tell people about the biggest challenge currently facing the European Union and its citizens, namely enlargement.
Recommendation for second reading by Mr Davies (A5-0187/2001) Madam President, I was happy to vote for the directive on ozone.
Torres Marques report (A5-0149/2001) Madam President, this report tackles the issue of simplifying invoices.
They have to be signed by a certain number of people, for example 500 thousand citizens.
I would also stress that it is precisely these young research scientists, who have taken over the world in recent years with new technologies - consider the average age of Java or even Microsoft programmers and of the creators of all these new technologies - who have ensured that the world of young people is the first to be concerned with the development of information technology and applied technologies.
In this respect, I can only congratulate the rapporteur on this report, for the subject is of great interest to many young people who vote for the Radical Party.
It replaces 15 different national rules governing VAT invoices with one simple set of rules.
This demonstrates yet again Europe's commitment to create an environment for entrepreneurs and businesses to flourish across the EU.
Different rules for VAT invoices in EU Member States often hinder many businesses, particularly small and medium-sized companies.
Not only does this proposal replace national rules for VAT invoices with one set of rules, but it also covers electronic invoicing and there is provision for the use of advanced electronic signatures.
By introducing uniform measures in business transactions across Europe, small companies will gain confidence in trading, not just across Britain, but right across the European Single Market.
The Single Market is essential for jobs in the North West of Britain.
Nearly 40% of small and medium-sized business enterprises in the region have trading links with other EU Member States.
As a member of the European Single Market, they will have access to over 370 million potential customers - over 6 times more than in Britain alone.
Madam President, I abstained in the vote on this document.
And the fact that the expected 600 departures will be offset by only 258 new recruits certainly implies that the authors of this proposal are looking mainly to increase the workload on the remaining staff.
That is why we abstained on this report.
I voted for this cooperation, but I call - and I am very happy to do so in this explanation of vote - upon the representatives of the European Union and these States to decide together, in these agreements, exchanges and meetings, upon the best way to tackle and resolve the problems of the elderly people of Europe and of the Far East.
It confirms that the importance formally attached to human and democratic rights must not remain a dead letter, that the progress achieved (or not) in this field must be assessed at regular intervals and that political consequences must be drawn from these findings.
Yet the resolution also has a very negative aspect.
The resolution also wants to impose, as a 'priority' , respect for the 'world trade order' , in other words, submission to the dictatorship of the WTO and neo-liberal dogmas.
By way of conclusion, Madam President, I would like to thank you for putting up with this little aside and say that, as far as silicone breast implants are concerned, if there is one category for which it is imperative that we introduce preventive measures to combat the risks engendered by breast implants - the sometimes negative effects of which in the field of health are, in spite of everything, still not well-known - it is precisely the category of young girls who, at 15 or 16 years old maybe, compare themselves with the women they see on various television programmes and attempt to improve their appearance by having, even at that tender age, a breast implant operation.
The Greens/EFA Group welcomes this report by Mrs Fourtou on Silicone Implants as a step forward in aiming to improve both the availability of information to those considering such implants and in the follow-up of the potential impact on their health.
This report is also valuable in that it stems directly from the action of citizens bringing the issue to Parliament' s Committee on Petitions - an opportunity available to anyone in the EU where they have concerns about EU legislation and its implementation, or the lack of such legislation.
and resumed at 3 p.m.) Working time in mobile road-transport activities The next item is the recommendation by Mr Hughes, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs (A5-0196/2001), for second reading on the Council Common Position for adopting a European Parliament and Council Directive on the organisation of the working time of persons whose occupation is the performance of mobile road-transport activities [5919/1/2001 - C5-0134/2001 - 1998/0319(COD)].
Mr President, our ongoing work on working time goes back to the 1993 Directive, which excluded approximately six million workers in total, some 5 million of whom were working in the various transport sectors.
Last year's overhaul of the directive brought all rail workers, non-mobile workers in the other transport sectors, offshore workers and doctors in training under the directive's scope.
Furthermore, separate agreements have been reached in the maritime and aviation sectors.
Amendment No 5, from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, seeks an early revision of the regulation in order to include these workers.
Even more serious, however, is the possibility left open in the common position, namely that the self-employed might be permanently excluded from this directive.
The original 1993 directive applies to employees, but this proposal has two legal bases: Article 137 covers occupational health and safety, while Article 71 covers operational safety.
We cannot exclude the self-employed.
But there is also a third important element: that of ensuring fair competition between the various modes of transport.
The rail sector is currently covered by the 1993 directive, but road is not covered by anything approaching a similar regime.
However, even this poses difficulties.
The common position is so vague on these issues that there is little point in trying to limit working time on that basis.
I proposed to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that a driver should receive prior notice of commencement of a period of availability 24 hours in advance.
I hope transport ministers will be persuaded to agree to it, otherwise this whole package might be rejected.
I am going to take this opportunity to highlight the problem of independent workers, because I believe that the good intentions on the health and safety of mobile workers, which the Commission and the Council are boasting of, may have horrendous effects if obstacles continue to be placed in the way of including independent workers in the Directive.
It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, and not an opinion, that the three basic principles put forward to justify the need for the Directive - the health and safety of workers, road safety and fair competition - are mere words if we exclude independent workers.
It could even be said that the health and safety of the majority of workers in countries such as mine, who are self-employed, are not of the least concern to us if we exclude them from this Directive.
If we really want road safety and the health and safety of workers, it makes little difference whether they are self-employed or salaried.
So our conclusion is that excluding self-employed workers is going to have horrendous effects for these workers and also for the sector.
For all of these reasons, we urge the Council to add to the effort that it has already made and include independent workers, if it truly - and this is not pure rhetoric - wishes to protect the health and safety of all drivers, increase road safety, promote fair competition at Community level and not destroy the sector.
The transport sector consists of a few major businesses, and their employees must be given sound working conditions.
They are independent businesses with one or two lorries which service a vital segment of the market.
Here too, the liberal group has chosen to subscribe to the common position.
The liberal group will be voting against the relevant amendments and in favour of the common position.
Mr President, Mr Hughes, Commissioner, in my view, this directive on the organisation of the working time of drivers is of strategic importance.
The price competition is cut-throat, not only in the road-transport sector but also between the different modalities.
In other words, we very much applaud the fact that everyone, both the employed and self-employed, must remain within those 48 hours.
Our group has tabled two amendments.
We feel that it would be appropriate to include the self-employed in the new directive from the start.
There is no evidence that self-employed lorry drivers, who rely on their own health and, on the safety of their vehicles for their day-to-day business existence, are in need of more EU legislation to make them more safe.
There is no evidence that Member States, when they agreed the common position, were unmindful of their health and safety responsibilities.
Article 1 states that the purpose of the directive is to provide better protection for the safety and health of drivers, improve road safety and bring about more harmonised conditions of competition.
I think that the common position does not do this justice; in fact, it even contains a number of inherent contradictions.
A whole series of companies has readily recognised that the competition will be ruinous if self-employed drivers are not included.
We need a reasonable, new, practical solution and I think that is precisely what Stephen Hughes gives us in his report.
Mr President, I congratulate Stephen Hughes on his report.
We are very concerned that some hauliers will be able to undercut their counterparts from other Member States if we do not pass this directive.
I know that my colleague said that the ELDR Group was against including self-employed workers, but in actual fact we were rather split on this and a sizeable minority of us actually believe that self-employed workers should be included.
I put forward the compromise amendment of 12 hours' notice before the load was taken out and am very pleased that he has agreed to that amendment.
I sincerely hope we are going to vote for this directive and include self-employed workers.
It is a step in the right direction towards providing health and safety not only for the hauliers, but for other road users as well.
Mr President, the aims of this report on improving road safety and guaranteeing minimum standards of health and safety for all road transport drivers are obviously worthwhile, but these goals need to be related to reality, for example their impact in peripheral and remote areas such as the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.
I have received many letters expressing a degree of alarm about the possible consequences of this proposal.
In the case of Scotland's Western and Northern Isles, two or three ferry crossings may be required before reaching Scotland's mainland, often landing in areas very remote from the ultimate destination.
The report's conclusion also refers to achieving a level playing field with other transport sectors already covered.
Scotland's road transport sector is already being penalised financially by the UK government through punitive taxation on fuel.
Some aspects of this working time proposal potentially threaten the already fragile viability of road transport.
Therefore I cannot fully support the more restrictive proposals in this report.
Mr President, I would like to join with my colleagues in thanking Stephen Hughes for the work he has done on this report.
It has been a very difficult task and, excuse the pun, a difficult road for him to travel down.
The overall aim of the report is to raise awareness with regard to health and safety and to prevent unfair competition.
In his report, Stephen has mentioned his concerns with regard to the common position; I share some of those concerns.
However, I also expressed concerns with regard to some of the amendments adopted by the committee and to some of the stances taken within the committee.
As already mentioned by some of my colleagues and, in particular, my Scottish colleague, peripheral areas of Europe would be more adversely affected than others by these restrictions.
The principle was clearly established in 1993 that directives are to avoid imposing administrative, financial and legal restrictions which would affect these kind of undertakings.
We must try to reduce the number of vehicles on our roads, but there is no guarantee that this directive would do that.
The working time directive as proposed by the Council could result in higher costs for companies.
Some of the amendments put forward by the rapporteur, such as Amendment No 6, are too prescriptive, while others such as Amendment No 14, are too restrictive.
In Amendment No 19 there is a call for harmonisation of penalties.
This is not something we should agree with.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work and efforts made in achieving a recommendation for second reading which is balanced and flexible and which may lead to the success of a conciliation which will probably not be easy.
Neither is it easy to achieve the general objective of organising working time for people who carry out professional mobile road transport activities, because it is necessary to take account of the health and safety of drivers, as well as road safety and, therefore, collective safety.
And because another objective must be to prevent unfair competition.
I believe that the Directive must include self-employed workers.
And the second paragraph of this Article says, 'Every worker has the right to limitation of maximum working hours, to daily and weekly rest periods and to an annual period of paid leave' .
I believe that the text, in the terms in which it provides for inclusion, is intended to achieve both the elimination of unfair competition and the granting of a prudent time limit for the self-employed to adapt to the new situation and to ensure their protection.
In summary, I believe that the recommendation must guide us and contribute to creating a more just and transparent society, where it is difficult for unfair competition to take place, and where due attention is paid to the health, safety and dignity of workers whether they be self-employed or salaried.
Mr President, I welcome the Hughes report and the reasonable balance that he has achieved.
Apart from alcohol, I think fatigue is probably the biggest killer on our roads and it is also true to say that if I were employed as a truck driver, I would not want my job undermined by a self-employed driver who would be willing to work 18 hours a day.
Nor, if I was a self-employed driver and wanted to strike a fair balance between my working life and my family life, would I want someone undermining my position by being able to work 18 hours a day.
A self-employed driver has many more tasks to carry out and is more likely to be fatigued when first taking the wheel, never mind having worked 10 or 12 hours in the day, so I would strongly support this report and welcome the compromises that Stephen Hughes has reached.
Our responsibility is to find a balance between the needs of employed and self-employed drivers and the community at large, so as to ensure that the latter can go about its business safely.
The area of application of the directive is the most essential question in this whole matter.
Mr President, the central issue of this legislative proposal is the inclusion of self-employed workers.
The rapporteur proposes a transitional period of three years for the automatic inclusion of self-employed workers in the scope of this directive, which is a sensible and balanced approach and which warrants our support.
This proposal therefore represents an acceptable balance between the economic aspects, road safety and workers' health.
The truth is that, if adopted, it will contribute not only to reducing the level of road accidents associated with excessive working hours, but also to establishing more healthy competition between self-employed drivers and employed drivers, which will enable us to combat the phenomenon of the pseudo self-employed, which discredits the rules of fair competition in this sector.
With regard to the maximum working time at night, especially bearing in mind the situation of peripheral Member States such as Portugal, the solution adopted by the Council is more appropriate, which stipulates ten hours in every twenty-four hours.
The only way in which we can reduce driving time is by making use of the night, when the traffic is less intense.
I believe that his amendments are largely based on, and are in line with, the Commission proposals, except for the two which Mrs Smet mentioned a moment ago.
I believe it is important that a common position has been reached.
Mr President, Commissioner, allow me to start by quoting the early German Romantic Novalis.
Extended to self-employed drivers, the directive regulating the working time of persons occupied in mobile road-transport activities under discussion today is a perfectly typical example.
From their point of view, it is even a compelling, authoritarian obstacle which stands in contradiction to the principles of a market economy and should therefore be rejected.
Improved health protection and safety in the workplace for employees in the road haulage industry also deserves a mention.
The Andrea Doria is approaching New York.
We do not want our lorries and motor vehicles to go the same way as the Andrea Doria.
As you know, this directive has a special significance for me.
In fact, at the end of 1998 the Commission presented its first proposal aimed at introducing common rules applicable to all professional drivers and, since then, this Directive has followed a complicated and tortuous path and has been in deadlock within the Council throughout that time.
In 2000, a modification of the general directive on the organisation of certain aspects of working time was adopted, Directive 93/104/EC, in order to incorporate mobile and non-mobile workers in the transport sector.
However, it should be pointed out that despite this modification mobile workers are only covered in a series of areas, in particular the average weekly 48 working hours, annual holidays, health controls of nocturnal workers and the guarantee of sufficient rest time.
For this reason, to maintain and defend the proposed directive under discussion still makes total sense.
Having realised how difficult it was for work to progress in the Council and out of concern to take a step forward, although it was not the ideal step, at the end of 2000 I presented an amended proposal for a directive which, as you know, provided for the automatic inclusion in the long term, specifically after 3 years, of self-employed drivers.
I can accept Amendments Nos 7, 11, 14 and 16, which include ideas which appeared in the modified proposed Directive and do not exactly form part of the compromise agreed in the Council and which I believe improve the overall content of the Directive.
Furthermore, we have been able to see that Amendments Nos 9 and 12 provide the texts with greater clarity and that Nos 18 and 22 offer, in principle, better protection, although we will perhaps have to consider modifying the specific wording, but in terms of their content, we will not be able to accept them.
I will say the same for Amendments Nos 3, 5, 8, 12, 15, 17 and 19, which cannot be accepted because they either risk coming into conflict with the existing rules in Regulations No 3820/85 or No 3821/85, or Directive 88/599, or there may be a risk of encountering difficulties in their implementation.
I am doing so for safety reasons; although I fully share this concern, I have a commitment to the Council which I must respect, but you know that you can rely on me to try to seek solutions during the conciliation debates, the final result of which I hope will be as positive as we all wish.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, this problem is double-edged.
We must not forget that the Erika foundered 70 km off the Breton coast, in other words, a long way from the territorial waters.
I believe it is also necessary for the information which then comes in automatically, also to be exchanged between the different Member States automatically.
Admittedly, bad weather was a major factor in past accidents, but we in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism do not support the general measure proposed by the Commission.
To underline this aspect, we have included it in the Directive, for a piece of legislation in itself is not sufficient.
Nor is there any provision for the Commission to have the right to dismiss the executive directors of these agencies.
We naturally support that objective and believe it crucial to give it priority in the light of the situation we have today as a result, in particular, of the Erika disaster.
The main problem with these two funds is still their ceiling of EUR 200 million.
But apart from the inadequacy of this amount - in fact the Erika spill is going to cost far more, an estimated amount of more than EUR 300 million - the procedure for releasing the money is not speedy enough.
The first step to remedy this situation is, therefore, to consult the IMO, which is what the Council did, with a view to revising the Civil Liability Convention and the IOPC Convention and tackling a number of structural dysfunctions.
The Commission therefore proposed the creation of a Community fund, called the COPE Fund, which would supplement the IOPC Fund and be modelled on it, but would have a ceiling of EUR 1 billion.
This fund would intervene only in the event of maritime accidents and would be funded by contributions from oil companies established in the Member States and receiving more than 150 000 tonnes of oil a year.
That being so, how can we introduce a third tier of compensation, the COPE Fund, whose operation and procedures are modelled on the existing international IOPC system, by referring to conventions that the IOPC Convention has not yet recognised?
The subject of our debate is maritime passenger and freight transport, which are obviously tremendously important, as our rapporteurs have stressed.
The second package which is the subject of today's debate, Mr President, Commissioner, does not answer all the questions or all the problems which, I think, are being exacerbated as globalisation progresses.
Secondly, we are proposing to Member States a Community monitoring, control and information system for maritime traffic, about which I in fact have some reservations, for there is nothing very Community-based about these measures.
Although Parliament has endeavoured to consolidate its proposals, they remain dependent mainly on Member State action.
Regarding ports of refuge, for example, the Member States must draw up plans for accommodating ships in distress.
Another positive and important point is the improvement of communication between ports on the movement of ships carrying dangerous goods.
With this report, the European Union has given itself the necessary instruments to ensure close cooperation between the Member States and offers them more means of controlling maritime traffic and making it safer.
This helps protect Europe's marine and coastal environment, while also giving more rights to the captains and crews of the ships, including the primordial right to avoid accidents at sea and thus protect themselves.
We must not confine ourselves to a compensation fund for damage caused by oil pollution, as we were tragically reminded by the shipwreck of the Ievoli Sun off the coasts of Brittany.
The proposal to make ship owners who are responsible for maritime pollution contribute to the compensation of victims seems a good idea, since it is a step in the direction of establishing the liability of all the players involved in sea transport.
This concept of liability was not defined clearly enough in our legislation.
Indeed, this agency must be created only if it is independent and entrusted with genuine tasks.
Next, I do not understand why our Parliament is not to have any representatives on the agency's administrative board when the Commission is to nominate four representatives from its ranks and four representatives of the professional sectors most concerned and the Council is to appoint four others.
The Council is the Community co-legislator and the other arm of the budgetary authority alongside Parliament.
These reservations aside, I am satisfied with the basic proposal to establish this agency, as amended, I hope, by our Parliament.
Nonetheless, the principles of the European Parliament require us to ensure that the authorities are efficient and transparent and control their costs.
The third proposed amendment contains provisions governing the adoption of the agency's budget.
As one personally associated in 1969 with the effects of the Torrey Canyon disaster on the beaches and livelihoods of south-west England, I have understood and shared that concern for many years.
This has the potential to be a far-reaching and radical piece of European legislation and in consultation with other non-EU states it can go a long way towards resolving the problems of maritime pollution caused by oil and hazardous or noxious substances.
Mr President, as I said last time: before the courts and on the high seas, we are in God's hands, but at least the Erika I and Erika II packages will help to make the high seas a little safer.
But it has been our experience over recent years that it is not just tanker accidents which cause pollution; other ships also pollute the environment with dangerous substances, often harmful substances such as so-called bunker oil.
Solutions should initially be sought at international level and the oil industry must also take part in financing the fund.
For example, issues of responsibility must be addressed at global level.
Mr President, Commissioner, as Mr Sterckx stresses in his excellent report, the maritime accidents involving the Erika, the Ievoli Sun and the Baltic Carrier highlight the shortcomings of and the omissions in current Community legislation.
I need only point out, in order to illustrate just how serious maritime safety is, that 90% of trade between the EU and third countries uses maritime transport.
Contrary to the honourable rapporteur and his Amendment No 11 to Article 8, I take the view that the EU has sufficient weight and international clout to adopt its own regulations and standards where the IMO is unable to do so in the short term.
The Commission proposes setting up a new European Maritime Safety Agency, on which Mr Mastorakis has reported.
By that I mean, for example, specific proposals for new national databases, powers for the national authorities to conduct stricter inspections of ships which represent a risk, specific powers for coastal authorities over ships using ports of refuge or criteria for specifying the number of ports of refuge to be notified and the special safety precautions required in ports.
The measures we are dealing with today aim at the effective protection of European waters against the risk of accidents at sea and marine pollution.
I would like to address myself in particular to the setting up of a European maritime safety agency.
This agency would play an important role in providing the Commission and Member States with support in applying, and monitoring compliance with, maritime safety measures, and in assessing their effectiveness.
I welcome the proposal for four representatives on the board to be appointed by Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner, while we are discussing the second package of proposals following the disaster involving the Maltese tanker, the Erika, the Council and the European Parliament have still not reached agreement on the first package.
The proposals which the Commission has prepared in this second package are also valuable.
They help establish an adequate framework for safety at sea and environmental protection.
The navigation system is an important element.
The rapporteur has found a prudent solution for the first point.
Naturally, the large American oil groups welcomed this happy initiative.
The proposals in Mr Sterckx' s report on the identification of ships, on their cargo and their access to ports, are entirely justified, but they only cover one aspect of the problem.
So we cannot protest if Liberia or Panama, for instance, make use of this attribute of their sovereignty.
They must have the right to visit and, if need be, to refuse access to or turn away any ship that penetrates the zone defined by the Montego Bay convention as an exclusive economic zone, i.e.
The arrival on the French Côte d'Azur last February of a Turkish vessel filled with a thousand or so Kurds from Syria, misrepresented as Iraqi refugees, showed the French that in the Europe of Schengen and of Amsterdam there is hardly any more control of their maritime borders than of their terrestrial borders, even near a large military port.
Any ship can, therefore, enter our territorial waters.
If we are to restore maritime safety to our countries, then as in many other areas it is not so much new European regulations that we need as governments that pursue a policy founded on simple principles: independence in relation to energy, maintenance of a genuine national navy, lower levies and protection of borders, including maritime borders.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all recognise the importance of the Erika II package, which seeks to improve safety and avoid the repetition of environmental disasters at sea and along the coasts of the European Community.
We must guarantee more stringent monitoring of ships which represent particularly high risks to safety at sea or the environment.
I agree with the rapporteur when he calls for an increase in the powers of Member States to act in their capacity as coastal States when faced with accident hazards or the threat of pollution.
In addition, we are all convinced of the utility of installing a black box on board vessels, and we hope that it will be possible to bring older ships into line with the new standards within the transition period, even if this means installing a simplified version of the black box or VDR.
Sadly it is not just the Erika, but the 1 000 ships that have sunk over the past ten years that really highlight the desperate need to make progress in the areas we are discussing this afternoon.
That is why I, as PSE spokesperson this afternoon, speak in support of the Commission's proposal and the Sterckx report on the need to establish a monitoring system for maritime traffic.
Maybe the rapporteur could explain the amendment later on, but I fear that it seeks to water down the commitment contained in the Commission's proposal to ensure that high-quality voyage data recorders - black boxes - are fitted in all ships, old and new, by 2007.
In my view, and in that of many in the maritime sector, the reluctance to accept the value of voyage data recorders and take positive measures to fit them in merchant vessels is a factor which makes safety in the maritime sector less satisfactory.
But secondly, there will be a significant change in the safety culture of a ship as a whole.
The IMO route is perhaps a better one, but we are not prepared for a study that may be published in 2004 - who knows?
On the report on the monitoring system, we totally support the rapporteur' s proposals, especially those seeking to make it compulsory as from 2007 to install a black box in all ships entering EU ports and on a system of automatic identification of ships, so that they can be monitored by the coastal authorities.
The directive will also require Member States to determine ports of refuge for ships in distress.
This provision will, no doubt, pose some problems and we will have to be very careful how we implement it.
Finally, the third report concerns the European Fund, modelled more or less on the IOPC Fund, which was unable, a year and a half after the Erika disaster, to compensate the victims, although the appropriate authorities had made the necessary financial promises and set early deadlines.
We fully endorse the main objectives, such as the aim of raising the compensation ceiling, given that damages for the Erika disaster came to EUR 300 million, whereas the IOPC Fund has a ceiling of no more than EUR 200 million.
The Committee on Transport's attitude in this regard is difficult to understand and tends in the opposite direction.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although a number of questions remain open, let me say from the outset that I endorse the three reports before us on the 'Erika II' package, while at the same time emphasising that we urgently need to adopt them and, even more, to implement them.
I will confine my comments to two points I regard as crucial.
If we want to improve safety at sea we must also mobilise all the citizens concerned, in particular nature conservation associations, trade union organisations and, more generally, the personnel involved in maritime traffic.
That is the reason for establishing the COPE Fund and that is why we are supporting this initiative.
Lastly, according to some estimates, the COPE compensation ceiling of EUR 1 billion will suffice for the Erika disaster.
This economic and ecological disaster has placed many businesses in difficulties, caused unemployment and has polluted our environment.
Committee members from both the right and the left voted in favour of amendments on increasing the COPE Fund for substances other than oil, and even though these amendments are praiseworthy, they will cause an unavoidable delay - I am sorry but this is what will happen - in setting up the Fund and therefore in compensating the victims properly.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, the Erika disaster led to a wave of indignation amongst the European public at the deficient measures in force and our incapacity to prevent such a huge catastrophe.
This accident demonstrated the limitations of a political approach which tried to deal with maritime safety exclusively within the framework of international organisations such as the IMO.
The very extensive international safety legislation which now regulates maritime transport has made it possible to drastically reduce accidents and pollution.
The measures we are discussing today and those which we discussed just a month ago, Erika I, demonstrate the commitment of our institutions to strengthening the safety of ships and the protection of the marine environment.
However, as in all human activities, it is practically impossible to guarantee complete safety.
I personally believe that the creation of this Agency will demonstrate to the public our institutions' great interest in preventing future accidents and pollution, as well the need to raise levels of safety on our seas.
The reason is clear: we believe that Parliament is an organ for controlling management, never for participating in management.
I therefore simply wish to thank the Commissioner for her work and ask her to present the Erika III package shortly, so that we can continue working on maritime safety.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by welcoming the launch of this second round of measures, diligently drawn up by the Commission and subjected to in-depth debate in the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today I defended my position and that of my group, as did my fellow Members in the debates in committee, expressing a completely favourable opinion of the establishment of the European Maritime Safety Agency.
Now, in the little time that I have, I wish to remind you that in the next six months, perhaps as early as in Gothenburg, the Council must decide on the location of the agency.
If my proposal were acted on, I can assure you that the decision would receive the support and the warmth of Galician society.
Mr President, with regard to Mr Esclopé' s report, we are not opposed to a European compensation fund, particularly, and I quote, in order 'to ensure adequate compensation of pollution damage in EU waters resulting from the transport of oil [...] by sea' .
That was not the case in the sinking of the Erika, where, moreover, the charterer was Elf; in other words, one of the richest oil companies in the European Union.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, may I again thank the three rapporteurs on behalf of my group.
Even if the debate has shown that one group is perhaps not completely satisfied on one or two points, we must admit that all three reports were adopted either unanimously or by a large majority in committee and we should maintain this majority in tomorrow's vote.
If the IMO wants to find a global solution to the problem within the next six months and actually does so, then we will gladly withdraw this Commission proposal.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to make three comments on the occasion of this extremely important debate.
As for the future, and I would like to mention two cases here, I believe that there are two important aspects of safety which have not been dealt with.
I think that it is absolutely essential that the EU legislate and pass tough legislation on the practice of emptying tanks, which is collectively more damaging as far as the environment is concerned, as you know, than the accidents that we have witnessed.
The second cause for concern is that, despite the fact that the Commission supposedly wants uniform safety standards at sea throughout the European Union, this is not the case.
A few months ago, the Samina sank in the Aegean.
Finally, there are two points on which I have reservations.
The first is that his proposals give us a more substantial and more positive measure as regards ports of refuge, places where ships can shelter in the event of danger, and I think that, thanks to Mr Sterckx's proposals, we now have more specific and more substantial measures.
But I assume that the Commission will consider this at a later date and notify us accordingly.
I would also emphasise the contributions of the three rapporteurs.
Of course, maritime transport, which is subject to the rules of competition, must also have its rules strengthened under the IMO in order to enable its economic activities to continue to be profitable without sacrificing safety, not only in Europe and the United States but in all seas and oceans.
What the agency must guarantee is absolute fairness and equal cooperation between the Member States and must also ensure the participation of the public, of those in the profession and of the other economic and social interests concerned.
When I reported to Parliament on enlargement and transport, I held a great many talks with people in positions of responsibility in the candidate countries.
The present Member States can do a great deal to help here.
The Commission should monitor the agency and we should monitor the Commission.
I would like to congratulate all three rapporteurs for drawing up thorough reports.
The Erika II package certains very many positive proposals among which I would particularly like to mention the setting up of emergency ports and the automatic monitoring of vessels.
Furthermore, I would like to thank them for having presented and prepared these reports within such a short timescale and for the attention they have paid to the problem of maritime safety.
We cannot accept the current wording of Amendment No 11 on black boxes - although I understand the rapporteur' s objectives, the formulation used makes this requirement dependent on a prior decision by the IMO.
With regard to the proposal for the European Maritime Safety Agency, I would thank you for Parliament' s positive approach to our proposal and the support it is giving us.
This is not a purely administrative measure, but rather the Agency will increase the public visibility of the European Union' s commitment to increasing maritime safety to the highest possible level and preventing pollution from ships.
The Agency will enable the Commission and the Member States to work together in an independent body and that is one of its advantages.
In relation to Amendments Nos 9, 20, 27 and 28, on the Administrative Board, I must say that we accept Amendments Nos 9 and 27, insofar as they eliminate the presence of Parliament and, if these amendments are incorporated, we will have to make the necessary adjustments.
In relation to the location of the Agency, Amendment No 19 seems more logical than No 29.
We accept that the external evaluation of the Agency be subject to the conditions set by the Administrative Board, as Amendment No 17 requests in part, although we do not think it is necessary to repeat the evaluation every 5 years as it suggests.
With regard to the visits which the officials of the agencies must make to the Member States, the Commission wishes the national administrations to actively participate in them and to assist them.
We cannot therefore accept either Amendment No 6 or No 5, which contravene this objective.
I understand the justification for Amendment No 18, but for reasons of legal certainty I cannot accept it, since the term 'independent' adds nothing to a body with its own legal personality.
Nor can I accept Amendments Nos 8 and 12, which imply that it is not necessary for the Commission to approve the Agency' s programme, nor Amendments Nos 13 and 25, according to which the decision to make visits to the Member States should depend on a Commission opinion, rather than on its agreement.
Supervising the implementation of the Community acquis will remain the responsibility of the Commission and the Agency cannot replace us in this task.
Lastly, the Commission cannot agree with Amendments Nos 11 and 24, which affect the impartiality of the executive director.
I would like to make it clear that the problems do not relate to the underlying objectives, but only to the means of achieving these objectives and we should try to solve all the problems by means of a proposal designed to deal with one specific issue: the lack of adequate compensation in the case of serious oil pollution.
If we now add to this proposal the problems relating to other types of dumping, to pollution from chemical dumping or from the cleaning out of bilge, we will eventually paralyse the initiative.
But since there is already an international proposal, I believe that we should not be too hasty.
We can accept three groups of amendments which, altogether, make up more or less half of them.
Nevertheless, given the current situation, requiring shipowners to participate in compensation for damages would contravene the current international rules and we are therefore unable to accept such a proposal.
But I must say that Amendments Nos 29, 31, 34 to 42, 52 and 57 also cause problems for the Commission because their aim is to strengthen the participation of the local representatives of the polluted region in the COPE Fund committee procedures.
Nor can we accept Amendment No 19, which proposes removing the paragraph establishing the possibility of rejecting compensation to claimants involved in the accident, that is to say shipowners, charterers and company directors.
I therefore prefer to keep this paragraph, which allows the rejection of payments to the parties most involved in the pollution.
We have problems with Amendment No 28, which proposes reducing the period for collecting contributions, and lastly, with Amendments Nos 51, 52, 54 and 55, which create difficulties in practice because they fall outside the scope of the proposal.
All the others, either in their entirety or in part, can be accepted.
They are Nos 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9 10, 11, 20, 30, 32, 33, and from 43 to 49.
I will end by once again thanking the rapporteurs for the speed and quality of their work, as well as the whole of the committee and Parliament as a whole for their support for the Erika I and Erika II packages in their entirety.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be held tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Occurrence reporting in civil aviation The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0203/2001) by Mr Collins, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on occurrence reporting in civil aviation.
It has been well documented that air transport is a very safe mode of transport and this should, and must, remain the case.
However, we must all work to ensure that air accidents are reduced to a bare minimum.
As a result of this new initiative, all European Union Member States will establish formal incident-reporting systems to facilitate the collection of information on actual or potential safety deficiencies involving aeroplanes in Europe.
Setting up a system that allows for safety and civil aviation authorities to share information available from the different reporting schemes will enable all parties involved learn from their mistakes thereby producing a safer system for all air users in future.
Article 75 of the Treaty of Maastricht introduced the legal basis for the introduction of Community measures to improve the level of transport safety in Europe, thereby creating a Community competence in this field.
The adoption of a directive on accident and investigation in November 1994 was the first EU response to the use of these new powers.
However, the limitation of the 1994 directive was that as the number of accidents is fortunately very low, the opportunities to learn from them are very limited and lessons can, therefore, be drawn only after an accident has already happened.
The objective of this new directive is to contribute to the improvement of air safety by ensuring that essential safety information is reported and collected, stored, protected and disseminated in order to facilitate its effective analysis and monitoring.
The specific proposal is part of a number of measures presently being proposed by the Committee on Transport of this Parliament to improve the quality and safety standards of air travel for all users.
The United Kingdom has a long-standing mandatory reporting scheme, MORS, currently established under Article 117 of the Air Navigation Order and administered by the CAA.
My second concern referred to Article 2 and Annexes I and II.
It is generally thought amongst safety experts that it is not the quantity of data that is important, but the quality of the reporting and analysis.
My third point referred to Article 4.
However, in such a safety-sensitive industry, it is important that all employees follow the strict rules, regulations and practices that are laid down.
Honourable Members, I am in no doubt that all of us here welcome initiatives to enhance safety, but they must be well thought through and beneficial to the entire aviation industry and the public at large.
The needs of women and children are specifically addressed in mother-and-child health programmes.
Projects are being implemented by Médecins Sans Frontires of Belgium; Médecins Sans Frontires of the Netherlands; and from France, Action contre la Faim, Aid Médicale Internationale and Médecins du Monde.
These projects are implemented in areas where internally displaced people have settled.
Currently, there are medical projects in the Panjsher Valley, Herat, Kandahar, Kabul, Mazar-e-Sharif and Hazarajad.
NGOs have access to all beneficiaries, women included, and can employ women as local NGO personnel in medical programmes, in spite of the fact that separation between the sexes has to be strictly observed.
For instance, ACF employs between 55 and 65 per cent of women in its medical programmes.
Medical NGOs play an important role in the professional training of women.
This pilot project in Kabul was subject to an independent evaluation, which proved to be very positive.
Operational partners such as NGOs, international organisations and Red Cross, family and UN agencies closely monitor all operations through expatriates and local staff present in the field.
All ECHO partners are bound by a framework partnership agreement, which obliges them to be present and, in relation to us, to present financial and operational reports of their activities on a regular basis.
Furthermore, ECHO has field experts, who also follow the ongoing projects very closely to ensure correct delivery of aid.
Maintaining access for this humanitarian aid is crucial, and we will continue our work, even if the circumstances are difficult and appear to be worsening at present.
The situation is terrible and it would now appear that the harvests are down by 65%, a quarter of the population is directly affected by drought and hunger and one million people are heading for the borders.
Given this situation, I need to be able to respond, Commissioner, as, in the dossier being circulated by its members, Médecins du Monde has condemned the fact that the European Union' s contribution has fallen from 50 million in 1991 to 36 million in 2000.
I would like you to give me an answer on this issue and also to tell me whether - given this situation, the politics, the drought and all the problems that you have mentioned - it would not be more crucial to increase our food aid and to put in place a genuine comprehensive policy on humanitarian aid.
The major challenge we face is to restate and explain the need for everyone involved on both sides of the conflict to accept unhindered access to the country by humanitarian organisations.
The UN Secretary-General recently proposed the establishment of a global fund to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis and urged donors to make firm commitments before the UN General Assembly special session on HIV/AIDS in June.
We made a joint Council and Commission declaration on the proposal for a global health fund at the Development Council meeting on 31 May.
I will quote from the first part of this: "The Council and the Commission note with concern the devastating impact of HIV/ AIDS and other communicable diseases on human suffering and on economic and social development and hence also on poverty reduction efforts.
I will go through them, quoting from a speech I made on this issue during the LDC Conference on 16 May.
First, we would wish to see a number of principles or conditions fulfilled.
One, donors should make available additional and new resources over an extended period of time.
This is crucial.
Finally, I wish to say that a global fund cannot succeed and will not get our support without a commitment from industry to a global, tiered pricing system.
These conditions may look very demanding but they, represent in fact, the mainstream of shared international policy in this area.
None of this is as easy as it may be portrayed in the press, but we are, in substance, a very active player in contributing to making the fund a meaningful and well-organised entity.
But the treatment is ongoing year after year, and the impact on national health budgets, even if they are given these anti-retroviral drugs for free, is incredible.
Few people realise that we are talking about 18 to 20 different pills or medications that have to be taken at intervals of a couple of hours, around the clock; that their composition has to be changed every few weeks and that all of this has to be very strictly and precisely organised.
We have been informed that Merck and the Gates Foundation have jointly set up a USD 100 million fund for Lesotho.
It is true that these organisations need money.
As to our own unspent money, the fact is not that we have money floating around, which we then send back to Member States.
But as I have told Parliament on many occasions, we are going through the whole portfolio, reducing and scrapping those commitments that are not implementable and accelerating the flow in the pipeline.
We very much welcome the summit that was called by Kofi Annan.
We very much welcome his own round table which was organised last year and which made substantial progress at European level.
It remains to be seen whether the announced contribution of USD 200 million from the US Government to this fund is approved by Congress, and whether it will in fact be additional money, but that does not form part of our more restricted deliberations here.
That said, we have expressed a strong desire to do so.
I wanted to ask him a question about the third disease mentioned in this report, and suggest to him that perhaps we should concentrate on this least glamorous of the three, because tuberculosis could be eradicated.
A concerted world programme over a relatively short period of time could eliminate tuberculosis from the world.
It has been documented that the world can save USD 1.5 billion per year in ongoing costs if we can mobilise the USD 400-450 million it takes for a 2-3 year final offensive to wipe out the remaining centres of active polio around Nigeria and northern India.
Question No 35 by (H-0461/01): Subject: Vegetable protein crops in the Union The ban on animal meal could have provided an opportunity for expanding vegetable protein production in the Union, but the Commission, without any consultation, decided to rule out any such plan, claiming the cost would be too high.
The European Council expressly stated in its conclusions that any proposals for measures need to respect the financial perspectives.
In addition, aid can also be granted within the framework of the European Regional Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Agricultural Guidance Fund in order to diversify into other activities in the coastal regions affected.
Commissioner, you have not answered my question.
The doubts over funding must be cleared up and you must tell us, please, whether all the funding intended for the fisheries agreement with Morocco, EUR 125 million per year, will now be invested in the people affected or whether, on the contrary, quantities will be diverted outside the scope of the fisheries agreement with Morocco.
You are an expert in giving no answer, but the Commissioner in charge must reply honestly to our questions.
You are wrong to maintain that Spain now has a claim to EUR 250 million per annum because this sum was provided for in the previous agreement; on the contrary, Spain has a claim to a solution to the problem which has now arisen.
Commissioner, it is certain that the 125 million euros that there were for chapter IV, obviously aimed at Morocco, are not going to be used as planned.
But if this agreement were going to be for three years, those concerned would be expecting 375 million euros from the solidarity of the European Union.
We are all aware of this and we hope that the Commission will be generous in paying attention to the petitions from the Governments of Spain and Portugal.
But my question has a different aim.
I wanted to ask the Commissioner if he is aware of the information that is being published in the Moroccan press at the moment, specifically in the weekly Demain and the magazine Economy and Enterprise, where top military, political and diplomatic figures in Morocco are being accused of having blocked this agreement to protect their own personal interests.
I think this needs to be the general model for the future.
Protection of minorities through safeguards against discrimination, access to education in minority languages and preservation of minority cultures have always been an important element of EU conditionality in our relations with Croatia.
Our commitment to such safeguards was reiterated and formalised in the stability and association agreement with Croatia, initialled by the Commission on 14 May.
Since then the draft of a new comprehensive constitutional law on the protection of minorities has received a favourable opinion from the Council of Europe's Venice Commission and work on the issue is continuing.
It becomes a farce if our efforts to hold the Commission to account result in a shortened Question Time and only five questions being asked and answered.
It is therefore only logical that a legal framework be created at European level.
The success of the new Regulation will depend on the cooperation of those directly involved.
In my opinion, the public is entitled also to obtain that type of information.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the liberal group supports the tenor of the rapporteur' s proposals.
It is by no means always serious, but still.
We are therefore pleased with the support which our amendments received in the committee.
Mr President, we will be abstaining on this report.
The Air France group has, for example, just announced a gross operating surplus of FRF 10 billion, or approximately FRF 200 000 per company employee, and, in spite of the substantial increase in the price of kerosene, the company has just increased its shareholder dividends by 57% this year.
Mr President, I welcome with satisfaction the proposals before us because I believe that not only will aviation safety in general be improved, but this will also strengthen cooperation procedures, as well as reinforcing preventive strategies.
To have a reliable system of occurrences reporting in civil aviation, we have to ensure confidentiality for the people who report them.
The only risk to safety we can see comes from an attempt to dilute the proposals in favour of the airline companies.
The majority of accidents are due to human factors.
For this reason it is important to obtain information on the functioning of these services.
It is important that exchanging information regarding risk situations and accidents functions both within and between Member States.
Each year, Member States must submit a report on the level of safety of civil aviation.
If a risk situation or accident is due to serious negligence, the Member State must have the right to initiate legal proceedings.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the utmost respect for this House, and of course for what is set out in the agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the Commission, and I must therefore express my surprise at the fact that the author of this report is not present to hear the debate on it.
With regard to Amendment No 2, although we accept it, it should be formulated differently to prevent the system from recording several reports on the same incident, which could distort the corresponding analysis.
Thank you very much, Commissioner de Palácio.
The debate is closed.
Nor would we like to have to repeat that these accidents take place mainly in work carried out on scaffolding, platforms and high places.
We have a generic text, in our Charter of Fundamental Rights, which has been published but not incorporated into the treaties, which in Chapter IV, under the heading Solidarity, states that "Every worker has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity".
No type of administration should be outside this commitment.
Finally, I would like to discuss this commitment from all in the sense that, as Bertrand Russell said, in order to be happy we need three things: the courage to accept the things that we cannot change, enough determination to change the things that we can change and the wisdom to know the difference between the two.
I think that, in this sense, the fight against accidents at work should be one involving constant determination and constant courage from everyone.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, not only on behalf of Parliament but also on behalf of all those people who work on scaffolding, for a good result has in actual fact been achieved.
Clearly, we have not, however, solved all the problems with this directive, and I can see four points in particular that we shall have to do further work on.
I should like to see these people in general covered by the rules concerning the working environment, both because of competitive considerations and because their actions can help improve safety on the work site.
They are thus not only very difficult to handle, with the risk too of dropping them, but they are also a contributory factor in causing those who work with these materials to become worn out.
It must at least be communicated to the Bureau sufficiently in advance, both out of common sense and for the smooth running of this House.
Despite this comment the rapporteur put forward even more detailed amendments and then blithely stated in the September debate: "This is a small- to medium-sized business-friendly piece of legislation".
I now understand what Tony Blair means by Labour leading in Europe.
Furthermore, of this total number, around 40 000 serious accidents are recorded and around 1 000 deaths.
In this area, as in other areas in the social sphere, we need to encourage the adoption of measures and common legislation to encourage the setting of standards and a levelling upwards, which would represent added-value for all of the Member States.
Apart from this complaint, I should like to thank all the services that have been a part of this very successful report.
I see Simon Duffin, for example, from our secretariat in Parliament, who was instrumental in bringing about many of the compromises, agreements and consensus in our committee.
We should be generous in our praise for people like Simon and others in the Commission who worked tirelessly in bringing about this particular report.
Forty thousand - as you have probably already heard - are seriously injured; seriously enough for them to have three or more days off from work.
That is enough for a whole host of hospitals, schools, roads, or whatever you want, across the European Union.
No longer will we have the competitive basis, on which some companies wish to compete, of people who prefer to miss out all these rules and regulations in favour of seeking the lowest cost, the lowest denominator in the workplace.
It has partly been successful because it has been able to include things which the Commission and the Council were not originally willing to consider.
I do not think that including self-employed people in this particular legislation is burdensome.
When you look at the contracting industry - take electricians, for example - the vast majority are self-employed.
The report has not only looked at contracting industries in the building sector but looked across a wide spectrum of people working at heights.
This move was underlined by the fact that Parliament took a very mature interest in some of that detail and effectively helped people, for example, who have to carry huge weights on ladders, to consider the very serious problems that could happen to themselves and the very serious injuries.
It has been achieved through consensus and goodwill in our committee.
I thank all the people who have been a part of that.
What is important to us is the health of workers, however they are contracted and whatever their method of work.
Thank you very much, Commissioner de Palácio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
I am sure that he has a legitimate reason for not being here now, but I must also say that in terms of programming speeches, the Bureau makes quite accurate estimates for speaking time.
Secondly, specialists forecast that the maximum [output] will not exceed 90 million barrels a day and that the number of new fields discovered will continue to dwindle.
Fourthly, the price of crude oil is expected to remain high, at least 22 to 28 dollars a barrel, and will most probably continue to rise.
The price of oil has since risen to 30 dollars a barrel, yet there is no revolt - at one time, even that rise would have constituted a danger.
The Commission published a communication back then, on which I should now like to congratulate it.
I think it is an exceptionally helpful and intelligent communication and I think the most important message - and it is this message which I also want to get across in my report - is that we need proper relations with OPEC.
We need dialogue with OPEC and, more importantly, we need the European Union to speak with one voice in this dialogue.
However, I think it is absolutely essential and fair, in the interests of truck drivers and haulage companies in competition with each other, that we harmonise competitive conditions.
The second divisive issue that is causing problems is the use of stocks.
The third point we need to discuss - and I am being very cautious here - is the use of fiscal instruments in the event of a crisis.
I particularly welcome the fact that the President of the Commission said quite clearly today that sustainable development is one of the cornerstones of development in the European Union, including a transport policy geared towards sustainable development.
No, what we need is a pricing system and structure in the transport sector which is keeping with transport policy objectives, especially where oil is used.
We know it cannot happen overnight but I think - and this too is contained in the Linkohr report - that we must urge individual Member States to think in their future planning policy about providing public transport which is as efficient and environmentally-friendly as possible wherever land is developed and houses, factories etc.
It is a balanced report with workable suggestions on how to improve the intermittently precarious oil supply situation.
Indeed the volatility of oil prices, ranging in the last 18 months from USD 10 to 34 per barrel, is as much a problem for the suppliers as it is for the consumers.
This gives us an opportunity, because stable prices are of interest both to us in Europe and to the oil supplier countries.
This dialogue must not just be pursued when there is a shortage, or when there is a seller's market, or when it is in our interest.
Nor should we overlook the potential of our indigenous oilfields, notably those in my Scottish constituency.
Mr President, Mr Linkohr, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the security of energy supplies is not new to the European Union.
In 2000, Europe imported 75% of its total oil requirements and by 2020, this figure will reach 85%.
We must, therefore, take steps to reduce our dependence.
In this connection, we have just cause to welcome the European Commission' s energy initiatives in the context of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation.
Reducing our dependence on oil exporting countries can also be achieved by diversifying the energy sources.
Of course, we must obviously stress the need for research in order to minimise the production of waste and risks to safety.
Gas may also represent an alternative energy source and I support the proposal seeking to carry out a feasibility study on the construction of new oil and gas pipelines between the Middle East, West Africa and Europe.
Another aspect of our strategy must focus on the rational use of energy and I welcome the Commission' s proposal to submit to the Gothenburg Council a plan for energy savings and diversification of energy sources, which will aim at more efficient use of energy.
According to current forecasts, the transport sector will account for 71% of demand for oil by 2020 and, as rapporteur, I note with interest the request from Mr Linkohr to carry out research under the Sixth Programme for Research and Development.
To sum up, I also believe that tax harmonisation has an important role to play in the strategy that I have just mentioned and I support the proposals that have been made on this by my fellow Member, Mr Linkohr.
At the same time effective dialogue is required with groupings of oil producing countries, exactly as stated in the report.
In this context I would like to mention cooperation with Russia.
Among other things the gas and oil resources of the Barents Sea area are an important reserve also in terms of European energy provision.
Renewable energy sources and biofuels in particular can replace part of oil consumption and at the same time promote the Kyoto objectives.
An important means of reducing dependence on oil is also saving energy.
Energy saving and the rational use of energy must be part of our strategy for security of supply.
The rapporteur has rightly pointed out that it is possible to save large quantities of oil using existing technology.
I therefore support the Commission's proposal to submit to the Göteborg Council a plan for energy saving and diversification of energy sources aimed at more efficient energy use.
What is even more important is the transport sector.
We need to develop a new generation of vehicles.
Energy consumption in the transport sector is our greatest problem.
The report makes very welcome proposals here.
Instead, let us have the same kind of investment in renewable energy that we have seen in nuclear energy over the past 40 years.
At the same time, the rapporteur acknowledges that the crisis in 2000 was not a real supply crisis.
Nonetheless, the report attacks tax cuts and proposes that taxes be harmonised upwards, concealing this anti-grass roots measure beneath a mantle of environmental sensitivity.
This welcome spreading of risk prevents individual countries from assuming too much power in the European oil supply.
Greater capacity can meet an increase in demand without the immediate need to put the prices up.
Thirdly, diversification according to the type of energy source is necessary, as proposed by the Commission and rapporteur.
Natural gas and renewable energy sources can thus contribute to a greater diversity of supply.
In the enlargement process, this approach might meet the need for flexibility for both Member States and candidate countries.
It is a welcome contribution to the wider debate on security of supply of energy in Europe, on which I am working at present.
Regarding paragraph 1, calling for effective dialogues with supplier countries, earlier this afternoon I attended a meeting where we heard about the work of the Energy Charter and the importance of putting that framework in place, in particular for our trading and investment relations with Russia as a primary source of oil and gas.
I would like to emphasise the importance of that initiative.
Next, paragraph 7 calls on the EU to make greater efforts to replace oil as far as possible.
There is great potential and we are looking forward to hearing from the Commission later this year with proposals to encourage bio-fuels and other alternatives as a supplement - and perhaps a complement - to oil at present.
Fourthly, paragraph 30 calls on Member States to work on the housing and transport sectors as areas where we can dramatically improve our energy efficiency and our conservation of energy.
Finally, it seems to me that perhaps the most important thing we have to do - which is a challenge ahead of us - is to influence and change public opinion on the need for conservation and efficiency.
We did this in Finland as far back as 25 years ago - triple glazing.
However, it is clear that these savings will not be achieved in time.
This is where we call on the Commission and, more importantly, the Council, to do something.
Without transparency there can be no democracy, not even in Europe.
In this respect, as Mr Linkohr rightly points out and has put as the first point in the motion for a resolution that he is presenting to Parliament, dialogue with the producing countries, whether or not they are members of OPEC, is an obligatory step to take in order to solve the problem of the instability of oil prices.
As Mr Purvis said, it is not about only talking when there is a shortage of oil and the prices are very high, but also when the prices are low.
This would therefore maintain a connection that would enable us to offer transparency for the market and maintain a greater stability of prices, which is in the interests both of producer and consumer countries.
In this context, facilitating the development of production within the European Union, as has been said here and is advocated in the motion for a resolution, but also in countries outside OPEC and not in the European Union, would benefit the Union.
However we can say, in any case, that our options for energy policy should be focused on controlling demand, both in terms of oil and the other energy sources.
On the one hand, our energy sources are limited, on the other hand, neither can we forget our commitments on the environment (and I am talking in particular about our Kyoto commitments) on which we undoubtedly have a different position to the United States.
But going back to our Communication, aside from the dialogue that we referred to at the start, it stresses increasing the coherence of national policies between the different countries of the Union.
I would like to mention reducing the impact of oil on the European economy and, consequently, controlling demand, and remind you, first of all, that although it says in paragraph 23 of your motion for a resolution that we are going to present an energy saving plan in Gothenburg, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to present it.
Finally, the Commission also aims to promote support for the new generation of vehicles and alternative fuels, and we will soon present a communication on alternative fuels, which has been discussed here, and a directive in which we will put forward a proposal on the minimum level of use of biofuels and another on tax relief measures to encourage the use of biofuels.
I am thinking about issues such as our increasing foreign dependence and the problem of climate change.
We jointly made these into 10 compromise amendments adopted by a very large majority of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
I should also like to thank the Commission and the Swedish Presidency for their very constructive cooperation.
Animal welfare and the needs of pigs are of course one and the same, whether the pigs concerned are in the north or the south.
I also think we are obliged to adopt common rules for European farmers and that we must not only ever talk about minimum rules.
The fact that we in Europe make high demands in terms of animal welfare makes our European pig breeders less competitive than producers outside the EU.
The Member States send information about the directive to the Commission, but we are not given this information here in Parliament.
The Commission ought now to gather the information and present it in a report explaining how the directive has been implemented, just as, this afternoon, we heard Commissioner Byrne provide a clear explanation of progress where animal transport is concerned.
It is also important that we push this legislation forward so that the consumers can have a product which they know is perfectly safe, is reared in an environmentally-friendly manner and which they can eat with total safety, knowing that the animal has had an excellent life.
If we do that, then we simply end up exporting animal welfare outside the European Union where we have no control over it.
In the final analysis, every new legal framework has a huge impact on the people affected.
The conditions of competition are particular harsh in the pig production sector.
The 1997 Scientific Veterinary Committee report on the welfare of pigs gives us a starting point here, especially for the space which fattening pigs require.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has presented a proposal on minimum standards for the protection of pigs in order to improve the welfare of these animals.
To cite just one example: training for qualifications is recommended, but young farmers in Germany gave up trying to survive in this fiercely competitive sector without qualifications a long time ago.
Mr President, I think that you know everything there is to know about pig production in Bavaria.
I am probably the only speaker from a southern country, which, moreover, is the largest producer of pigs in the European Union.
Like the rapporteur, I want all the standards to be as uniform as possible in the whole of the European Union, but we need to harmonise standards that can be applied from Lapland to Andalusia, and after that, each country or each region can set the levels as high as it likes.
Anyway, it has been shown that in northern countries many more piglets die than in hot countries, simply because it is cold and the piglets cuddle up to the mothers and the mothers squash them.
And, with regard to the managers and workers on farms, I can assure you that, at least in my country, they are true professionals and take responsibility for training themselves, because therein lies the future of their farm.
I think that it is ridiculous to require in a directive that they study and have a qualification in order to do their job.
Allow me to finish, Mr President, by saying that Spain has many reservations on the proposal from the Swedish Presidency on the system for maintaining sows.
It would, of course, have been better, in order to safeguard equal conditions of competition within the Community, if we were to issue regulations, which are directly applicable and valid in the Member States, rather than animal protection directives.
Animal welfare must form part of our basic ethical philosophy.
In addition, account must be taken of the pigs' natural habits, so that the pigs can keep themselves constantly occupied with food and any other material in which to root.
Only two days ago the Commission, together with the Council presidency, had the opportunity to set out its views and commitments in relation to animal welfare.
I took the advice of the Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare very seriously in preparing the Commission proposal to bring current legislation in line with the scientific evidence.
The proposal also sets out rules to improve the living environment of pigs and piglets in general, setting requirements for living spaces, floor surfaces and proper feeding systems.
Aware of the importance of the effects of stockmanship on the welfare of pigs, the Commission proposal introduced new requirements for the persons attending to the animals.
Amendments Nos 28 and 30 build on this, calling for certified training for the personnel attending to the pigs, and therefore can be accepted.
Even if I share the aim of Amendments Nos 1 and 26, they are not acceptable because they request initiatives that the Commission is already taking.
A second proposal for a Commission directive amending the technical annexes to Directive 91/630 has been discussed by the Standing Veterinary Committee during the past months.
Amendments Nos 8, 27 and 33 cannot be accepted because they reduce the possibility for the Commission to take urgent action to adopt technical improvements for the welfare of the animals.
I cannot accept Amendment No 38 because the definition of manipulable materials is already foreseen in the annex and will be discussed further in the Standing Veterinary Committee.
Amendments Nos 2, 10 and 31 add new aspects to the Commission proposal and introduce further initiatives.
The Commission is already committed to further analyse the issue from the scientific and economic point of view and to take the necessary steps.
We are all aware that animal welfare carries a price and the measures outlined in this proposal are no exception.
In an industry as competitive as the pig-meat industry, where margins are extremely tight, even small price differentials can have important competitive implications.
The proposal is based on extensive consultations with experts from inside and outside the Commission that led the Commission to the conclusion that the additional costs are a price worth paying.
Amendments Nos 36 and 37 are not acceptable because the delay proposed for the application of the new requirements to all holdings is too strict and would significantly raise the costs of conversion.
Data available to the Commission show that the costs would be increased from EUR 0.006 per kilo for a pig carcass to EUR 0.02 if the conversion is carried out with a delay shorter than ten months.
These amendments cannot be accepted.
The Commission considers that we have a duty and a responsibility to press for recognition of these standards, both on purely ethical grounds in recognition of the need for the humane treatment of animals, and in recognition of the higher costs which these standards entail for producers and consumers in the EU.
It is essential to share our knowledge of animal welfare with countries outside the European Union and to create a harmonised approach towards this issue.
In summary, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2, 5, 10, 25, 28 and 30 in full, and Amendments Nos 13 and 31 in part.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The point of this programme is to build up a reasonable administration, to build up a reasonable infrastructure and to build up reasonable, self-perpetuating economic growth, thereby creating the conditions needed to bring about lasting stability and peaceful coexistence between people and ethnic groups.
A problem arises in this context and I am delighted that Commissioner Solbes Mira is here and I can specifically ask him.
Ladies and gentlemen, if a neutral observer were to come to every sitting of the European Parliament, he would conclude that we are a monotonous lot.
FYROM, Kosovo, former Yugoslavia.
And that is what we must secure.
I feel that it is essential to point out that we are not talking here today about part of the action used by the CART programmes and therefore, we are not talking about Kosovo aid projects as part of the European Agency for Reconstruction.
The Community made a contribution of this type in 2000, amounting to EUR 35 million, and the proposal that we adopted in March of this year involves EUR 30 million, which will be allocated to the Kosovo budget in two parts, in order to start up or rather to maintain the operation of UNMIK in the area.
We are not talking about our aid, but about elements associated with the introduction of a market economy.
In this respect it is radically different from the CART aid, which is why it needs a different legal basis, as we explain in our proposal.
Of course, in answer to some of Mr Brok' s questions, first of all a system should be put in place to enable Kosovo to gradually take on its own financial costs.
We agree with this idea and our medium-term objective is for the Kosovo budget to be able to fund itself.
I would also like to stress that, when we implement this assistance, we not only insist on establishing a stable economic framework, but also on policies being created that are aimed at achieving economic stability.
First of all, we can quite readily accept some of the amendments.
I am referring to Amendments Nos 1, 3, 6 and 9.
We feel that there are other amendments that are not justified, not because we disagree with them in principle, but because they are not necessary: for example, Amendments Nos 4 and 5, which refer to the distribution of the burden.
Nor do we consider Amendment No 10 to be necessary, because it states that the aid must clearly focus on the budget.
The aid is purely budgetary, and it is not therefore necessary to highlight a point that we feel should be taken for granted.
There is a series of amendments which, in my opinion, are mistaken in their understanding of the nature of macroeconomic aid: these are Amendments Nos 2, 8 and 13, which refer to linking this type of macroeconomic aid with the CART programme, and they therefore ask for the same conditions as for the CART projects.
Therefore, we think that these amendments should not be included, because they would cause some confusion.
There is a series of amendments regarding deadlines, procedures and monitoring, in particular Amendments Nos 7, 11 and 14.
The problem arises if this information has to be drawn up in the context of other aid, in accordance with the progress of the reform.
We are currently providing information on macroeconomic aid and we are prepared to do so and include this aid with other macroeconomic aid, providing all the necessary information so that Parliament can effectively carry out its monitoring work.
Amendment No 11 considers the possibility of creating a group within the Council, of a political nature, to undertake consultations on the implementation of this aid.
With regard to the problem indicated in Amendment No 14, the need for the conditions of economic policy to be fulfilled and for a link to be established with Amendment No 4 and for the funds to be used for this type of aid, we do not think that this corresponds to the nature of this measure.
It is true that we should also use these objectives in order to improve the economic situation and the market economy in Kosovo, but there are not conditions as with other types of aid.
With regard to the possibility of passing on the memorandum of understanding that is made between UNMIK and the Commission, I must point out that this memorandum contains some sensitive information and therefore we think that a more efficient system is for this information to be given to the chairmen of the various committees, but under no circumstances for the memorandum of understanding to be sent out.
Lastly, the Commission could accept Amendment No 14 if it were worded differently.
That is, if the report were presented in September of the previous year, as these reports are prepared for June and if we could provide the information by September, but not before.
I would remind you that, as you know, this was a unilateral decision taken by the Kosovo authorities.
The German Central Bank is perfectly aware of this information and of this situation, and the Kosovo bank and payment authority, the German Central Bank and the Austrian Central Bank are currently in contact in order to seek a solution to the problem.
I can therefore inform you that these talks are now taking place and I hope that they will achieve a favourable result so that the change will pose as few problems as possible.
The Commission is following this matter with the greatest interest, although it is more directly the responsibility of the European Central Bank and the national central banks than of the Commission.
Thank you, Commissioner Solbes Mira.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 11.30 p.m.)
