Restructuring of the European car industry, in particular the Opel case (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the restructuring of the European car industry, in particular the Opel case.
Mr President, honourable Members, I am very grateful that you have given me the opportunity today to comment on the situation in the European car industry in order to inform you of a number of aspects of our European response to the crisis and of the developments in relation to the General Motors Group.
In so doing, I will comment on the industrial policy and social aspects, while my fellow Commissioner, Neelie Kroes, will take over when it comes to State aid law.
Out of concern about developments relating to General Motors, the Commission called a political meeting of all the Member States back in January this year in order to provide transparency and to guarantee compliance with European legislation.
Joint political arrangements were reached amongst the 27 Member States at these meetings, and these were also made public.
The first policy agreed was that a trusteeship solution coordinated by Germany was the right way to go in order to protect General Motors Europe from the insolvency of the US-based parent company.
The fact that GM will retain 35% of the shares is a clear indication that it is counting on the economic comeback of its former European subsidiary.
All the Member States - and today the Flemish Minister-President, too - welcome and support the Commission's position on the future of General Motors Europe.
The debate about the future of General Motors Europe must not prevent us from seeing that the situation facing the European car market overall is a drastic one.
This situation has been exacerbated by the crisis.
The scrapping premium, which 12 Member States have adopted, has ended the freefall, but only on the passenger car market.
In order to protect the workers affected, the EIB, Member States and the Commission have provided financial means so as to soften the social consequences in the sector.
With around EUR 40 million, we are helping around 7 000 workers back into the labour market.
There is agreement between all those involved about the long-term prospects of the European car industry - namely that we must build the most advanced vehicles in the world in Europe, in other words, the cleanest, the most energy-efficient and the safest.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the public financing of Opel/Vauxhall by one or more European governments is the issue that I will address.
As you know, last Thursday, the Opel Trust, in which General Motors (GM) and the German authorities have equal representation, announced that it has approved the sale by GM of a majority stake in its European Opel/Vauxhall operations to the consortium of Magna International and Sberbank.
The German Government promised to grant public funds of up to EUR 4.5 billion to the new Opel, with the possible participation of other European governments.
And those principles will be my guidance in my assessment in the Opel case.
Mr President, we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) very warmly welcome the fact that Commissioner Špidla has confirmed that the European authorities were involved in three areas of this long, drawn-out change of ownership process of a car company.
It need not necessarily be as quick as in the take-over of Dutch and Belgian banks within 24 hours, while the same process requires 24 months for German banks, but I would still ask that this checking process be carried out rapidly and purposefully.
You will have an extra 30 seconds. (ES) Mr President, Mr Langen said that the Commission study on Opel should be completed within a reasonable time.
I would, however, like to conclude by saying the following: in total, the plan - if my information is correct - envisages 10 500 out of the total of 50 000 jobs being lost, 4 500 of which would be in Germany, with the remainder across Opel's other sites.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in this situation, where, after a struggle that has gone on for months, the way is finally open to a solution in which, of the in excess of 50 000 directly-affected jobs, probably - at least according to what the new investors are telling us - around 40 000 can be saved, not counting the many jobs amongst suppliers and in dependent local businesses, it is now time to address the workforce of General Motors in Europe.
Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank the two Commissioners and the Commission for their statements today.
Commissioner Kroes, I should also like to request that this investigation be carried out on the basis not only of State aid but also on the basis of the rules on competition and of mergers and acquisitions.
Instead, the governments of the other Member States of the European Union whose production sites are affected by the GM crisis - in other words, the governments of Poland, Spain, Belgium, the United Kingdom and so on - should get together and consider, along with the Germans, how to make something out of this worst of situations and how it is possible to secure the future of the jobs of the affected people in the factories.
As I say, I believe that we are all united by anxiety concerning the future of jobs in the car industry and I have to say that Commissioner Špidla is absolutely right to say that, despite months of discussions in Brussels and again and again here in Strasbourg and back home in the Member States, the debate is still not where it needs to be.
For that reason, the future must at least be discussed in terms of the future of the mobility sector and we must be bold enough to actually now, in these times of crisis, discuss transformations and also act more consistently.
I would like to use this debate, right now, as the new Parliament begins its work, as the occasion to say that we really must tackle this.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Kroes for her approach to the highly complex issue we are debating today, which will create an enormously complex environment for solving such economic situations in the future.
The global economic crisis has affected many areas of the economy.
I am truly delighted that Commissioner Kroes has taken such a serious approach to this issue, as it will have a very serious impact on all of us in the future.
However, I would like to point out that there are a number of things that we do not share.
We are not only talking about the approximately 12 million people who directly or indirectly live off this industry but the roughly 30 million people throughout Europe who are involved in this industry's economic output.
As Commissioner Špidla pointed out, European professions of faith are many and loud but, when it comes to the crunch, political leaders look after their own country's interests first.
This was the case in the recent banking crisis and, I fear, is also the case now in the Opel crisis, with German authorities serving German interests first. (NL) Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the announcement by Magna, Opel's new owner, that it is most probably going to close the Antwerp plant is odd, to say the least.
Commissioner Kroes, you have rightly promised an investigation.
Commissioner Kroes, you have a reputation as a woman of steel.
Secondly, it is essential that Europe comes up with a new industrial project for the automobile sector.
Opel Europe has a significant role to play in industrial policy in Europe and this is not only about jobs at Opel, but also about jobs in many automotive supply companies in a number of European countries.
The path that we were put on under Germany's auspices must now lead to the best possible result for all European workers, across all European sites. (DE) Madam President, I'm delighted to be given the opportunity of taking the floor in the first meeting to be chaired by you.
Most of all, however, I would like to thank Commissioner Špidla for having spoken German, and I would like to express my heartfelt congratulations to Commissioner Kroes.
We want Opel to survive, we want it to be healthy and we want to fight for every job, but we do not want there to be costs involved, nor do we want a solution at the expense of our European partners, on whom Germany, as the biggest exporter in the world, is also dependent. (NL) Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, today I am somewhat seized by the emotions of satisfaction and fear.
Commissioner Kroes, Commissioner Špidla, I entreat you: do be men and women of steel, do ensure that all the rules are properly observed.
I hope this is not the case, of course, and I hope that the restructuring of Opel is subjected to normal rules of business conduct and that we do not end up in a situation where everyone puts their own car plant first.
Cars are the bogeyman, and drivers are squeezed dry as taxpayers - often as a result of policies championed in this House.
The first is that the car industry is a key industry for Europe and - this has already been said - when you include all the upstream and downstream businesses and the whole supply industry, 12 million jobs depend on it.
It is a mocking affront to the workers employed in this sector across numerous European countries who have to fear for their jobs day in and day out.
If Opel is rescued by the fact that there is an investor, namely Magna, that there are bridging loans, for which the German Government fought, it is not only in Germany's interests but those of Europe as a whole.
There would not be any need for further debate today in that case, as the debate would have been done and dusted in any case when General Motors drew GM Europe along with it into the mess surrounding its insolvency.
I ask the Commission to also provide the relevant authorisation and I would like to conclude by re-stating that, in this case, we have achieved something positive for the car industry in Europe as a whole! (NL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the Commission for its statement.
You, the Commission, play a role - a necessary role, and one I support - a very formalistic role as protector of the interests of the European Union in terms of its treaties and its rules on competition and State aid.
I am hugely impressed by the engineering excellence I see at plants in my region - at Ellesmere Port and at Halewood - and on that basis alone they should prosper, but I am deeply depressed by the attitude of the car industry as a whole over the 10 years that I have seen it work while I have been in this Parliament.
It made an agreement with us to reduce its CO2 emissions and then reneged on it.
We need the industry to recognise that it has obligations to society as a whole and that its future is inextricably linked to environmental improvement. (NL) Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear that even the European car industry cannot escape reality and must be reorganised as a matter of urgency to eliminate overcapacity.
As various speakers have already stated, there are serious indications that, in exchange for State aid, Magna has made concessions to the German authorities that are not exactly in the interests of the industrial plan.
Commissioner Kroes has already expressed her concern, but I think that more is needed.
In particular, the Commission must lose no time in stating how it intends to ensure that Germany, too, respects the European competition rules in this dossier.
Parliament is going to demand this on behalf of all the workers of Opel Europe. (ES) Madam President, I thank the Commissioners for their explanations.
I believe that this situation requires complete and absolute transparency in all the negotiations that are being conducted.
The first is that, until now, State aid for the car industry and the action taken by the Member States and the Commission have been marked, on the one hand, by what I would call a defensive approach and, on the other, by a short-term approach.
There is talk that in its restructuring plan, Magna is considering making 10 560 workers redundant - currently 1 700 at the Aragon plant - to which many indirect redundancies will have to be added.
Mr Luhan, you had a question for Mrs Lope Fontagné.
I am even more worried about State aid, which must not distort competition in the car market.
Nowadays, Fiat is the most technically advanced vehicle manufacturer - just look at what it has done to reduce the CO2 emissions of its cars. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner Kroes, we are actually looking to you as an arbitrator in this case.
I should like you to tell me why Antwerp - my city - has been hit hardest, as very many people back home will see this as a symbol of the confidence they can have in the European Commission and in the European Union itself. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I share the great concern of many in this House about the fate of Opel and the people who work there or make a living in that area.
A decision in principle has now been taken on the acquisition of Opel, but in recent days and even hours, statements have been made that have caused a great deal of confusion on several points.
This is draining for the workers and also the people in the supply sector, and clarity is needed without delay - clarity, but, above all, a serious, honest approach.
Therefore, I cannot shake off the impression that multinationals are playing Member States off against one another, or the other way round: that Member States are using State aid to influence the selection of plants to be closed or saved, in such a way as to distort competition.
In July, I wrote to Commissioner Verheugen and I was encouraged by receiving his commitment to ensure a level playing field in any restructuring plan for the European arm of GM.
In my region, the Vauxhall plant in Ellesmere Port is the linchpin of the local economy, employing some 2 200 direct jobs.
The site has undergone radical restructuring and is considered a lean, efficient and competitive operation, as indeed is the Luton site in the south-east of England.
Maintaining a strong European car industry means taking a pan-European approach to maintaining vital and efficient infrastructure in all Member States and all regions. (PL) The question has arisen as to whether the provision of EUR 4.5 million by the German Government to restructure Opel, which was hailed as a success, was a political act or an economic one.
The best answer to this question was provided by representatives of the German Government when it came to choosing Magna as the entity to take over Opel.
The European Commission ought to assess the nature of the State aid granted to Opel and inform the House as to whether this was not perhaps a case of protecting the local market at the expense of factories and jobs in other European Union Member States.
For the time being, this should be regarded as a measure aimed at combating the financial and economic crisis, although it should also be seen as one of the building blocks of innovation in the car industry.
That is why we want the Commission to treat this sector and this area as priorities. (DE) Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this is, of course, not the first time that we have debated the subject of Opel and the car industry.
That is also what I hope for from the next Commission. (DE) Madam President, first of all, I feel I must state that I am speaking from a doubly biased position.
If we are going to constantly talk of competition, then that is what we should have and it should not result in a downward spiral which takes with it those who have actually kept house better, financially speaking, than Opel! (RO) Madam President, we are actually talking about signs of recovery in Europe, but, unfortunately, the situation in the car industry is still alarming.
These are all social tragedies, and I believe that three things are important in this regard.
Firstly, the Commission must now use all its competences to guarantee that the negative consequences of the announced restructuring take an honest, objective course.
This is essential to preserve Europe's credibility and to prevent people from getting the feeling that all workers are not equal.
Thirdly - and this, I think, is the main lesson to be learnt - we need a more proactive Commission, we need a European industrial policy, a perspective on the challenges, the opportunities and the way problems are tackled from a European point of view - and this for transnational industrial sectors such as the car industry.
Secondly, because it is expected that there must be a new model in that van market by 2012, and unless Magna give assurances that that new model will be brought on, it does bring concerns about the future of the plant.
In my opinion, it has also clearly shown that for the automobile industry - just as for Opel - there can only be a European solution and that it is impossible to find a long-term solution within the framework of individual countries which will stand the test of time in economic and social terms.
There was much debate over the rules of economic competition, but I would like to stress that Europe is also equipped with a number of very substantial directives focusing on social issues and the regulation of restructuring, as well as the informing of employees and a whole range of issues which we must take into consideration as a matter of principle because every economic operation is essentially a relationship between people and we must take full account of the social consequences of all decisions.
In my view, the debate also clearly showed that the European automobile industry is going through a long-term restructuring process, and that this fact must be taken into consideration.
Future progress has been a central theme and I am delighted to be able to emphasise once again that support is going into innovation in the automobile industry via the European Investment Bank, in order to ensure that the crisis situation does not weaken the industry's capacity for innovation.
Ladies and gentlemen, although the decision that was taken is very significant for the issue we have been discussing, we are nonetheless in the middle of a process and there can be no doubt that the Commission has mobilised all of its powers and resources to ensure that the process has been conducted correctly and with close attention to the social dimension.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am grateful for nearly all the remarks that have been made, for many reasons.
Mr Langen was quite clear in his approach on that as well as on the role of the Commission.
