Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 27 March 2003.
Mr President, following the discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and furthermore as a result of the presentation of new Commission documents on the same issue of improving Community regulations, my group believes that the report should be referred back to committee, with a view to presenting a proposal in plenum which can receive the widest possible support.
That is why our group still believes in the importance of a statement by the Commission and the Council on humanitarian aid prospects in Iraq and on the initial decisions that have been taken in this regard by these two institutions.
Mr President, the humanitarian situation was appalling prior to the war in Iraq because of the embargo.
When our delegation of 31 Members of the European Parliament went to Baghdad two months ago, we met the UN agencies, who warned us.
Of course, we should shoulder our responsibilities, but there is no point in making a much overdue statement on this issue.
I am therefore against such a statement.
And it is not just necessary from a humanitarian and solidarity point of view, but also from a political point of view, because we must also re-establish the European Union's unity of action in the face of this conflict, this crisis and this war.
The first decision was utterly deplorable.
I should like to confirm that at a recent meeting of the Conference of Presidents it was decided that a delegation would be sent to the next hearing, which is on the 25 April 2003.
The European Union can only function if it remains humanistic and fraternal.
Mr President, on a point of order, I also wish to associate myself with those remarks.
I ask this House and all the Member States to support the initiative by Commissioner Byrne to amend our Treaties so that we at least have the same powers to deal with human disease as animal disease.
The soldiers ordered all men and boys between 15 and 55 to leave their homes and congregate at two locations in the camp.
The army detained 11 men who were said to be wanted terrorists.
Mr President, on a point of order, I wish to draw your attention to an article in the Spanish newspaper El País, dated 30 March and headed 'Eavesdropping on half a dozen countries at Council headquarters.
In view of the committee report on Echelon, we should address the issue with some urgency.
I have written to the Cuban authorities in very clear terms on the matter, but have not yet received a response.
Mr President, a majority in my group have therefore already expressed their objection to a topical and urgent debate, as we believe the situation in Cuba to be so grave and so important that three-minute debates are not an appropriate place for taking decisions on the subject.
It seems to me that the House has already spoken on the matter of the debate on breaches of human rights and the rule of law.
Mr President, please allow me to express here in this House - which I have considered my home for ten years - the horror I feel at the death and mutilation of innocent victims in Iraq.
I wish to express my anguish because, although victory is being claimed, we do not yet know how this disaster is going to end; and shame, because this Parliament has not been able to reflect the views of millions of Europeans who are speaking out against this war throughout Europe.
In terms of our preparation of these debates, perhaps it commends an appropriate degree of serenity, as well as the determined passion and commitment that we bring to these issues.
Mr President, I would just like to respond to the contribution from Baroness Ludford, who commented on the fact that in my capacity as chair of the EU Turkey delegation, I am supposed to have requested that no delegation be sent to Leyla Zana's trial.
However, not everybody is equally able to take advantage of this great opportunity which we could be offering to all our European young people: indeed, the pupils and students from the furthest, outermost regions cannot come for reasons of money, because of the costs involved.
Mr Santini, I shall ask the services to prepare a note for you on the evolution of the different budget elements in recent years.
In my role as President, having met a good number of school groups, I know that we continue to invest heavily in the Euroscuola programme for children from schools within the Union.
This will soon be extended to children in schools in the candidate countries.
But I believe, Mr President, that this Parliament should not fail to raise its voice in these circumstances, when there has been a wave of arrests of peaceful dissidents, of defenders of human rights and independent journalists, such as Raúl Rivero and Ricardo González Alonso, for whom the prosecutor is asking for sentences of between 20 years and life, within the context of a summary trial, which neither the press nor diplomatic representatives accredited in Havana have been able to attend.
This House should congratulate the actions of the coalition armed forces, in particular of the United States and the United Kingdom, who have been instrumental in bringing about the downfall of that ghastly regime.
Mr President, I would like to insist that the seriousness of the events taking place in Cuba requires an in-depth debate, and I would therefore be delighted if we could pursue the idea of an oral question with an in-depth debate on the issue.
War is never without a price in terms of human suffering, but human freedom and global security for all of us here today has no price.
The next item is the Commission statement on severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
This syndrome is a respiratory disease that has recently been reported in Asia, North America and Europe.
The illness usually begins with a fever, sometimes associated with other symptoms such as chills, headache and body aches.
Nevertheless, other ways of transmission cannot be ruled out, such as direct close contact with an infected person.
Scientists currently speculate that the SARS virus either jumped to humans from an animal species or mutated into a more virulent form.
On the question of numbers in the European Union, all 15 Member States have reported to the Commission a total of 46 cases - 19 probable and 27 suspected - with no deaths.
In the candidate countries, EFTA and other European countries, 14 countries have reported data, a total of eight cases - three probable and five suspected - with no deaths.
In the other countries, to date a total of 2396 cases have been reported, including 89 deaths.
SARS, however, demonstrates very clearly that we are living in a truly global environment, where the increasing mobility of people also enables diseases to move ever more freely.
The Commission's role is to coordinate and support these activities.
This approach seems to be working: most of the suspected cases turn out to be something else.
The European Union surveillance strategy on SARS is fully connected to the global surveillance coordinated by the World Health Organisation.
Hong Kong and the Guangdong province of China have been identified in this respect by the WHO.
The SARS outbreak has already made a political and economic impact.
It will not replace existing national capacities, but rather hook them up to act as a reference and coordination point both in routine and crisis situations.
This will also play an important role in an enlarged Europe.
On a multinational level the SARS situation can be said to be under control, but not improving, as had initially been expected.
In Europe the situation still appears to be manageable.
Mr President, we have an excellent opportunity today to debate and understand certain basic public health issues and advance them at European Union level.
If we now take this case, of SARS, as an example and want to make something of it, we must succeed in gaining a mandatory competence at European Union level for health policy.
Mr Byrne, I will support you if, in the forthcoming Budget debates, you demand more personnel and double your budget estimate.
In short, the fight against the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) epidemic seems to be a real race against time for health authorities and researchers all over the world, in particular as far as treatment is concerned.
I am convinced that, in the long run, the crisis will lead to progress in this 'Europe of Health' and speed up the project mentioned by the Commission to set up a European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control based on the model of the Atlanta CDC by 2005.
Since the flu epidemic in 1918, which claimed an unprecedentedly large number of lives in Europe, we have known that the composition of the flu virus can constantly change.
What we were able to avert in time then is happening today.
The fact that cases have been discovered not only in Asia but also in Europe and Canada, however, has everything to do with a policy that is too laissez faire and too tolerant.
On 19 March the European network on imported infectious diseases stated that SARS could be transmitted only via direct contact.
A European centre for combating infectious diseases is not enough.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a number of points on behalf of the UEN Group.
Clearly, since it is not yet possible to identify the causative agent, the people of the European Union and the rest of the world are faced with major difficulties in terms of what action to take, not least in view of a number of major factors which are responsible for the spread of the virus.
Secondly, to define, together with the WHO, a standard isolation procedure for suspected cases in EU citizens, to be applied in all the Member States, so that the Member States are not all left to decide on their own national procedures.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome has so far attacked 2 416 people of all ages and has caused 89 deaths, mainly in Asia.
In these circumstances you, Commissioner, are now facing for the first time on the human front what you have faced three or four times in terms of animal diseases.
The Commission statement and our debate today highlight a very important problem that the whole world - indeed mankind globally - should take an interest in.
We have such a thing in place - the communicable disease network - which does valuable work in this area and has been doing valuable work in response to this particular outbreak of SARS.
Since last year, a transfer of experts has taken place, with some WHO people working with us and some of our people working with them.
I will review all of these issues with Dr Brundtland, the Director-General of the WHO, when I meet her at my next meeting on 6 May.
We have already pursued it in Mr Katiforis' committee and elsewhere.
The programmes are no longer so rigid.
We hope, however, that this will be re-examined in the course of the evaluation, for I believe that this amendment that we have tabled is an important one.
It is of course also about the training of drivers covering criminality in the broadest sense of the word, as they can very often be the victims of certain criminal acts.
The training centres must be of high quality; my colleague has already incorporated this requirement into the recitals, and I believe it to be important that reference be made to this.
We therefore again urge the Commission, and, through them, the Council and the Member States that, if we want to create this liberalised European transport area, in which, however, this job can also be done under proper conditions, in which working conditions are right, and in which training will now also be right, these texts will remain nothing but fine words if the Member States are not willing to systematically implement them.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to congratulate Mr Grosch on his excellent report, which demonstrates that we all share the same opinion on the training of professional drivers and the need to improve safety on our roads.
The adoption of this directive will be an important step forward and will contribute to the harmonisation of social conditions, a better quality of professional driver and better road transport standards in general.
The Commission believes that the Council's Common Position, which to a large extent takes account of Parliament's first reading, is a well-balanced attempt to achieve these objectives, and we should therefore try not to spoil this balance and try to adopt this directive at second reading.
There are certain amendments, however, which the Commission cannot accept, such as No 3, No 4, No 8 and No 9.
Amendments No 3 and 4 must be rejected for two reasons: firstly, because they are not viable in practice.
In fact, in 13 Member States there is currently no obligatory training and only around 5 to 10% of the drivers in question would be able to be trained, and it would therefore be impossible for these 13 countries to transpose the directive correctly in two years.
Amendments Nos 8 and 9 were both proposed by the European Parliament at first reading as well.
Amendment No 8 intends to authorise an individual to obtain the initial qualification or periodic training in the Member State of their choice.
Amendment No 9 lays down control by the competent authorities of the setting of tests.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would appeal to you not to let these two amendments cause us to miss the opportunity to approve this legislation at second reading and therefore not to delay its adoption by this Parliament and the Council even further, as well as its subsequent transposition.
It will facilitate a speedy adoption of the directive and consequently an improvement in the conditions of millions of lorry and bus drivers who work in our Member States.
I would like to say to the rapporteur that he is absolutely right, that the effectiveness of all these measures will be assessed according to the Member States' capacity for control in their various areas of responsibility.
The rapporteur is well aware that this is a complex task, but I would like to say to him that - as I have repeated on various occasions - I hope to present a proposal on this area to Parliament and the Council as soon as possible.
We are all aware that it does this against the backdrop of 41 000 fatal traffic accidents per annum in the European Union as a whole, to which we have to add a multitude of people injured, some being left with permanent and severe disabilities.
If we really want to achieve the objective of increased safety on the roads, we need a multi-faceted strategy.
Those who work in the transport sector, that is, those who drive vehicles, have to be better trained.
What distinguishes the road transport sector from other transport sectors - such as sea or air transport - is the large number of people working in it.
I do not therefore believe that we can accept Amendment No 8.
Road safety for drivers and other road users is important.
Madam President, some months ago we discussed the Markov report on driving times and rest times in the road haulage industry.
One of the motives for limiting driving times is that driving a vehicle for long periods of time can create risks to road safety.
Extending this to all Member States will significantly promote the professional quality of drivers and safety on our roads to a comparable level.
This requires the training programme to be flexible.
We should not only be paying attention to road safety but also to the personal safety of the drivers.
In conclusion, we regard the common position, including the proposed amendments, as a good basis for driver training right across the European Union.
The directive will serve to improve the professional skills of drivers as well as road safety, as has been said here.
In my opinion, we should still think carefully about the aim to bring forward by one year the deadline for the transposition of the measures into national law.
The Member States have highlighted the problems arising from a tighter timetable, since the directive will mean a great deal of reorganisation with regard to training.
The Member States therefore need time to implement this.
Madam President, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
If a number of problems are to be solved, we have to approve the report tomorrow.
Secondly, training courses for drivers should also pay attention to the rational use of energy.
Thirdly, and perhaps the most important point: safety on our roads will also improve.
I am thinking here about training in the use of the obligatory blind spot systems and other safety technology on board lorries, as well as teaching a more defensive driving style which will benefit more vulnerable road users in general and cyclists in particular.
I believe that is where we should address the demands and proposals we are making here in the European Union, but I would like to say that through this proposal, and the one we made previously, we are applying all the requirements not just for drivers from any of the European Union countries, but also for third-country drivers who operate in the European Union, in European Union companies.
I hope that tomorrow there will be an agreement which allows this text to be approved at second reading, improves safety and prevents unfair competition in road transport.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this difficult time in which we are living, I believe that the Commission's will to make a knowledge-based Europe a strategic priority of the Union, which has been reiterated on many occasions over several years, is more relevant now than ever before.
The Erasmus World programme, which we are discussing this evening, is perfectly compatible with this objective.
It is therefore very good news for Europe.
The programme has two main goals, which are closely linked: to enhance the attractiveness of European higher education to students and university teachers from other parts of the world and increase links between European universities in order to improve the quality and competitiveness of European higher education.
By opening up our universities to the world, we are also opening them up to Europe.
These Masters Courses will be open to students and university teachers from third countries and I would like them to be widely available to students and university teachers from the European Union so that they can also take advantage of this 'European tour'.
Language-learning must, in fact, remain a priority for the European Union.
We must continue to encourage the promotion of language-learning by all possible means, and this programme provides us with an ideal opportunity to do so.
Substantial scholarships will be offered to 4 200 students from third countries, either directly or as part of a partnership programme between their own university and universities participating in a Masters Course.
Scholarships will also be offered to 1 000 third-country university teachers, who will be invited to Europe for teaching and scholarly assignments with an average length of three months.
Thirdly, the creation of partnerships to strengthen and promote intercultural understanding.
Lastly, the final action is the international promotion of European higher education.
Erasmus was one of the flagship programmes in this area, and still is.
It is very important to speak of hearts, because identification with Europe also involves feelings, in particular the feeling of belonging to one big family.
This project is based on absolute respect for the competences of the Member States and the autonomy of higher education institutions.
These Masters Courses must involve at least three higher education institutions from three different Member States.
They must offer a programme that includes a period of study in at least two of these institutions.
Secondly, for young people from third countries and for university teachers, there is a scholarship system associated with EU Masters Courses.
There are also, and this concerns Europeans in particular, partnerships between these EU Masters Courses and higher education institutions in third countries, seeking to encourage the opening up of European education and to strengthen its global presence.
These partnerships also offer our European students an opportunity to study abroad.
I shall mention, first of all, Amendment No 1 tabled by Parliament.
If we create an Erasmus Mundus programme involving a number of universities in several countries, linguistic diversity must clearly be part of Erasmus Mundus, as it is the basis of cultural diversity.
We also accept the content of Amendment No 29, or rather Amendments Nos 70 and 76 which replace it, and Amendment No 51.
In order to maintain the internal coherence of the text, however, they must be combined with Amendment No 53.
I cannot accept Amendment No 68 because it seeks to eliminate the promotion of linguistic competence and intercultural understanding, which is completely the opposite direction from that we wish to take.
The Commission cannot, therefore, accept Amendments Nos 12, 15 or 45.
With regard to brain drain, we have always based our thinking on the principle that Erasmus Mundus would have to attract young people from third countries to Europe and then encourage them to return to their own countries, because it is in their own countries that they will have to build on what they have learnt in Europe.
The Commission, in this regard, can accept the spirit of Amendment No 24, which must be reworded.
Amendment No 5 seems to me to be balanced, as does Amendment No 23, at least in spirit.
On the other hand, I think that Amendments Nos 61, 64 and 65 are in danger of creating excessive operational focus on these issues.
Nor can we accept Amendment No 33, which requires excessive involvement of these bodies in implementing the programme.
The Commission accepts them, with the exception of Amendments Nos 27 and 30, where the attempt to simplify the text would detract from the meaning.
This is also the case where Amendment No 6 is concerned, which makes a premature reference to future programmes, and Amendments Nos 19, 72 and 73, since they restrict the definition of visiting scholars.
In short, the Commission can accept 39 of the 66 initial amendments and 5 of the 12 amendments tabled after the vote in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.
In relation to timetables, the target is the academic year 2004-2005, which means that the call for proposals should be published in November this year.
The adoption process must not be delayed and I therefore trust that Parliament and the Council will be as swift as possible.
The Erasmus Welt programme, which is so important to the future of the European Union, shows how important and sensible it is that Parliament's committees should cooperate well with the Commission.
The Commission proposal is supplemented by the amendments tabled to it, which also put it on a broader foundation, especially in financial terms, with EUR 300 million instead of the proposed EUR 200 million.
In its legislative capacity, the Council can indeed see how important these programmes are, but as a budgetary authority, it is unwilling to allocate more funds to Heading 3.
That will, in any case, affect the first three years of the Erasmus World programme.
With this in mind, we should be putting the case for this important new programme to receive appropriate funding, to the tune of EUR 300 million.
It might make sense, in the first instance, to reallocate funds from those action programmes for which no financial framework has yet been laid down in the Financial Perspective, or for which such a framework is to be decided on by way of codecision after 2007.
In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, we all caught from her an enthusiasm for this new and important project, and let me say loud and clear that our discussions of it brought us joy because we had a sense of playing our part in shaping the future.
So, as well as extending congratulations, let me also thank the Commission, and Commissioner Reding, for submitting this programme to us, so that together we are making a contribution to investing in Europe's future and in that of the younger generation.
Its inward dimension involves something that, even a few years ago, we would have thought impossible, namely that the European Union, and its Member States in particular, are willing, on the basis of their own decisions, of the Bologna Process and the Lisbon resolutions, to cooperate more intensively at university level.
So let me conclude by appealing to the Council in these terms: you cannot, in view of the terrible conflicts in Iraq, afford not to provide the necessary funds for this programme - which amount to at least the EUR 300 million that Parliament has called for!
In Europe, the corresponding figure for the number of students from countries outside the Community is around 400 000.
The Erasmus Mundus Masters Course programme aims to rectify all these failings by establishing a European Union Masters degree for students from third countries in partnership with three European higher education institutions.
In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport we pay a great deal of attention to linguistic diversity in Europe.
It is perhaps for that reason that the majority on the committee wanted to add the paragraph to Article 4 stating that the purpose of the programme is the 'promotion of language skills, in particular by the use of two languages spoken in the countries in which the institutions involved in the Erasmus Mundus Masters Course are located'.
I fear the worst, in that such a stringent rule will go against the basic aims of the programme.
Although some parties in my country are suggesting that it is not really necessary to learn two foreign languages, I would like once again to emphatically express my support for the European Parliament's proposal to give third-country students the opportunity to learn the languages of two host countries via this programme.
I feel it is important to highlight two points in this regard.
Now, the language of knowledge is one thing, but knowledge itself is quite another.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs De Sarnez, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that this programme is entitled 'Erasmus Mundus'.
I am glad because it refers back to a shared root, from which sprang the cultural and linguistic diversity of the European Union.
The investment in education that we are making today will bring forth a harvest that will bring gladness not only to us within the EU, but also beyond its borders.
There are now European-wide programmes operating in all elements of our education system.
Promoting social and educational interaction between students can only serve a positive function.
The EU Erasmus programme is one of the most popular educational programmes operating within the European Union.
It has been in existence since the mid-1980s, and provides educational opportunities for students from within the European Union and the applicant states to study in different Member States.
Since the EU Erasmus programme was originally set up, over one million students in Europe have already taken part in this important educational initiative.
In fact over 100 000 different students now participate in this programme on an annual basis.
The report which we are dealing with today relates to the setting-up of a new Erasmus World initiative which is due to come into operation in the year 2004.
The European Commission has proposed a budget of over EUR 200 million for the administration of the EU Erasmus World initiative for the years 2004 to 2008.
Funding will also be provided for conferences and seminars so as to promote educational and student mobility between the European Union and colleges around the world.
This initiative is yet another clear example of the European Union seeking to bring forward proposals which will help to promote and increase the standard of education within the European Union and beyond.
The first is the European dimension and the European value that the opportunity of mobility adds to education.
The third point is the accent on language learning, and here I want to contradict all those who have said that this is not important.
Fourthly, the increase to EUR 300 million reflects the desire to create a real European educational area.
They are indispensable in terms of cultural understanding and dialogue, both of which have been mentioned a number of times today.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard today more than once, it is important and a matter of urgent necessity that we should make every effort in order to boost Europe's attractiveness as a knowledge base and thereby draw closer to the Lisbon objectives.
Erasmus World can be an opportunity to make up this deficit.
I would also like to emphasise that I am very much in favour of equality of opportunity or a balance in men and women's participation in this programme.
I do indeed think that linguistic diversity has a part to play during courses of study, and I also believe that people must have the opportunity to participate in language courses, but that they should not be considered to be admission criteria for the bursary.
We are glad of the EUR 300 million, but it is not acceptable that this should be deducted from other programmes.
The proposal for a decision which we are debating introduces the Masters Course of the European Union and, secondarily, funds access to it for students and teachers from third countries.
The first, in blatant violation of Article 149 of the Treaty, is yet another step towards the imposition of a specific higher education model, which is none other than the notorious Bologna model.
European universities have much to offer the world in terms of their scientific and teaching excellence.
That is very important as long as it does not impede and take money away from important programmes such as Socrates and Leonardo da Vinci.
I reiterate the point made by other speakers that it is very important for us to develop the linguistic capacities of our students throughout the European Union.
Mr President, there is a degree of latent conflict between the principle of competition and the principle of cooperation.
There are other aspects, however, that have given a clear advantage to the United States, since if we are to resolve the same problem in Europe particular attention must be paid to these aspects.
The use of only one language, the enormous competition between university institutions and the enormous variation in quality, the constant concern to attract and retain the finest brains to which I have just referred, and the great variation in the cost of enrolment and course fees, which are as a rule quite high, characterise an education system that attracts many more students from other countries than the European university system does.
In Europe, another problem arises immediately as a result of the disproportionate number of students applying to universities in the United Kingdom, France and Germany compared to those applying to universities in the other Member States.
Around three-quarters of these students apply to universities in the three countries to which I have referred.
However many courses in the language of the host country might have been provided before students attend an advanced course, however many parallel courses the universities open to their foreign students, it is clearly unrealistic to think that in a short space of time, we can reverse the trend that currently benefits the United Kingdom, France and Germany.
It is a reason, however, to attempt to develop a solution to the set of problems to which I have referred - a solution that is still far from satisfactory - and also, for this very reason, to attempt to ensure that this set of problems is given an appropriate budgetary allocation.
Promoting cooperation with third countries will also improve still further the quality of university education in Europe.
The Erasmus mundus programme is finally going to try to overcome these obstacles, contributing to the development of quality education and allowing freedom of movement within the European area.
Furthermore, this is going to contribute to improving two vital aspects for the citizens of the European Union: understanding of our different European cultures and the very important issue of knowledge of languages.
With regard to cultures, we must be aware that if we want a united Europe we must invest in it.
And we must reflect this in the budgets of the European Union by investing more in the education and the culture of our young Europeans because, let us not forget, they represent the future of the European Union.
I only hope that the success of the Erasmus mundus programme marks the beginning of the success of many more programmes in the future.
In this regard I do not agree with my friend, the communist Member Konstantinos Alyssandrakis.
These bodies must truly cooperate on these projects and in this way they will also ease the Commission's burden.
Furthermore, I believe it is very important to create institutional incentives.
For this programme we must not just support students, but we must also reward those universities which work and meet together, and those which carry out the greatest number of exchanges with third countries, because we must create enthusiasm; we must stimulate this process which, by means of the Erasmus programme, has been a success, even if it has been very slow.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
A lot of progress has been made with regard to eLearning since the Lisbon Council in March 2000, and we have now moved from the proposal for action to implement new technology in the field of education to a legislative resolution which will lead to a genuine multi-annual programme.
The question I asked myself at the start of our work was: what should be regarded as an 'appropriate' budget for an ambitious multi-annual programme such as this?
It is not easy to answer this question because resources for culture and education always seem to be particularly limited.
What encouraged me and prompted me to persevere in this matter was the proposal made by the European Commission itself in the 2003 budget: budget line B3-1000 has been allocated EUR 18 million in commitment appropriations for the preparatory actions in the 2003 budget.
In this sense, I think the Commission should be grateful to me for pointing out to it that, actually, EUR 18 million multiplied by three equals EUR 54 million, which would appear to be a more appropriate figure.
As regards the E-twinning of European schools, in line with the objectives adopted in the European Parliament's previous resolution, I wish to stress that training teachers remains a priority within the programme.
The goal can really become that of exchanging methodological and didactic good practice between teachers in various Member States, or the start-up of 'virtual training rooms'.
This proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council, seeking to establish the eLearning Programme, supplements the action taken at the Lisbon Council concerning the integration of new technologies into education and training systems in Europe.
The goal is to achieve integration swiftly and effectively, but also in a critical, carefully-thought-out manner.
The Commission proposal is first and foremost a response to the Lisbon mandate, extended at Stockholm and Barcelona.
The new programme is designed to supplement and enhance the actions of existing programmes.
It should make it possible to test new forms of cooperation and thus provide useful information for the new generation of programmes after 2006.
The proposal of programmes is also the logical result of the preparatory actions that have been carried out, Mr President, over the past three years as part of the budgetary appropriations proposed by Parliament, which could not take place without a legal basis.
I believe the third action to be the most important, as it concerns our children.
At your request, this action now has the clear purpose of acting as a lever for training teachers in the exploitation of new teaching opportunities provided by communication technologies and European cooperation.
This should be achieved not only through the various eLearning instruments and programmes, but by taking account of similar instruments and programmes in the Member States as well.
Mr President, I was interested to note the budgetary proposals put forward by the European Parliament, which demonstrate its support for the Commission proposal, and I would like to thank Parliament for that.
Parliament is quite aware that, at this stage, the Commission can only maintain its initial proposal, which could be reviewed in light of a possible increase in the ceiling for budget heading 3 for the years 2004-2006.
I would also like to tell your rapporteur that the Commission can accept 24 of the 29 amendments tabled by Parliament, which shows strong consensus between Parliament and the Commission.
I am pleased to note, Mr President, as I often do, moreover, the perfect agreement between our two institutions to make progress towards a Europe of citizens, and, in particular, smaller citizens, whose schools will become part of a network in the twinning operations.
I cannot see how these paltry resources are meant to enable us to bridge what is called the digital divide, which is for real and consists in the fact that, in some countries, many schools are equipped with computers, while, in others, very few have them.
This approach to the eLearning Programme must, as you said, be increasingly directed towards the creation of synergies between existing programmes and the eLearning Programme.
I believe, then, that this is where we have to forge a new partnership, one that promotes eLearning as an aid to language learning, as well as intercultural dialogue, above all in schools.
If we are to achieve the best results, we have to combine virtual mobility and physical mobility.
The eLearning Programme - as at present envisaged - is an important addition to all the educational programmes currently in existence.
The eLearning Programme, as we have just heard, is now to promote still further access to European educational and training programmes in order to improve their quality and accessibility.
The fact that there is almost 90% use in Denmark, and only some 11% in Greece demonstrates to me that there is a great divide between these two countries and thus within Europe.
The proper response to this digital divide is integration into the other European instruments.
The new information and communications technologies are exciting and important, and it is very important that they be integrated into the European education and training systems.
The programme we are now talking about must not replace, but support and supplement the initiatives on the part of the Member States.
I am also quite certain that many teachers have benefited from exchanging experiences with their pupils, for the fact is that, in this area, young people have, in many cases, far greater knowledge and experience than their teachers.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the European educational programmes need only to be developed further rather than needing to be replaced by new ones is a point in their favour, especially in an age of globalisation and technological change.
This programme is extraordinarily successful, achieving a high degree of efficiency with relatively meagre resources and great commitment on the part of both teachers and students.
The eLearning Programme is also a good example of excellent cooperation between Parliament and the Commission.
This year EUR 18 million has been allocated to this heading, B 3-1000.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport has in fact expressed its concern that the Commission proposal will mean less being spent each year on the programme than has now been allocated for the preparatory actions.
For that reason the committee is proposing that the overall budget be increased from 36 million to 54 million.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport is aware that the expenditure for its category of activity must be accommodated within the degree of manoeuvre reserved for heading 3 in the Financial Perspective, which is very restricted.
Networking via the Internet will provide brand new opportunities for small schools in remote areas to provide an opportunity for international studies and learning foreign languages and foreign cultures.
For everyone to be included in the information society it is vital that there is a sufficient number of teachers with information technology skills.
The eLearning Programme at its best will only ever be an undertaking to support the equal utilisation of information technology and provide examples of how it can be used.
There are great differences - this has already been mentioned - between the various regions within Europe in terms of the level of knowledge and the use of IT in education, and that makes it difficult for schools to work together.
Leaving such personal matters to one side, I congratulate this programme, and also the rapporteur, especially on his calls for European software, for more European content and for European services.
I also welcome all the amendments that are intended to foster a critical engagement with the instrument of the Internet, not only on the part of school pupils, but also on the part of their teachers.
Mr President, I should firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, our fellow MEP Mr Mauro.
I also entirely agree with him that the budget should be more than the EUR 36 million proposed by the European Commission, since it would be truly absurd to spend more money on the preparatory action for a programme than on the programme itself.
Mr President, I welcome this report and the Commission's response to Parliament's amendments.
However, even if we achieve the increased budget sought in this report, increasing it to EUR 54 million, we will still be only scratching the surface.
If we are serious about achieving the objectives outlined in the Lisbon process then clearly not only do we need to increase our budget at European level, but we must also find ways to ensure that Member States actually address the issues seriously.
As I said, 2 500 Irish schoolteachers undertook development programmes in the past year.
I support the idea of concerted actions between the Commission, the Member States and other partners in the field of education to examine national experiences and to promote best practice regarding the use of eLearning and fighting the digital divide.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council in Lisbon was, at that time, rightly concerned about the international position of Europe and discussed the possibilities of new technologies.
ICT places new demands on education, and therefore also on teachers.
This is an important and ambitious plan to implement a high-quality ICT infrastructure at a reasonable price and in a reasonable period of time in order to improve the quality and accessibility of ICT in education - a massive challenge.
I am glad that attention has been given to this in the report.
After all, the question 'what for?' is also important.
I am convinced that this plan is an excellent opportunity for making a young generation familiar with new technologies and that it can promote a new intercultural dialogue, which is so important for Europe.
In Europe we do that via dialogue and cooperation, and that seems to be a good formula.
It will, however, also require commitment on the part of a future generation.
We all know - and it has already been said - how successful exchange programmes are and what tremendous experience schools and students can gain with them.
ICT increases the opportunities in this area via virtual campuses, school twinning, via the Internet and by promoting teaching partnerships.
I therefore thank the rapporteur for his excellent work.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 8.48 p.m.)
