Disturbing situation regarding waste in the Campania region (debate) The next item is the statement by the Commission on the disturbing situation regarding waste in the Campania region.
It is the culmination of deficient enforcement of European legislation on refuse over the past 14 years, for which Italy has been repeatedly condemned by the Court of the European Communities.
When the Commission was first informed of the crisis in the refuse collection and disposal system in Campania, in the spring of 2007, proceedings were initiated against Italy for contravention of Community legislation on refuse.
The emergency plan announced by Prime Minister Prodi on 8 January is a more ambitious effort in this direction, but a crucial element remains the timing of the measures, which must be swift and effective.
The Commission will continue to exert pressure on the Italian government to end the crisis, and intends to proceed with the legal action against Italy.
The real risk is of losing the EUR 330 million Structural Fund money.
On 11 September 2007, the Commission, in reply to a question from me, said it was concerned but hopeful that the urgent measures taken by the Italian authorities would help to resolve the situation and also said that it would take the measures set out in Article 226 of the Treaty if the investigation under way brought to light infringements of the law.
Some figures: quantities of waste are greater than in Naples and Campania; 4 500 tonnes of refuse are collected every day in Rome in comparison with 1 000 in Naples, with a figure of 450 kg per capita in Campania in comparison with 617 kg in Lazio, well above the national average of 539 kg for an Italian.
Commissioner, on 28 January, when, as has been pointed out, you will be in Rome for discussions with our government, it is essential for Italy - and I believe for Europe - for the Commission to take a very harsh stance in support of the workings of European justice.
What is making the situation in Campania even more dramatic are the 14 years of intrigue and irresponsibility culminating in the first proceedings against businesses and representatives of the public institutions, and ultimately the proceedings against Impregilo at the European Court, for environmental disaster.
Only in Naples has this not been the case for at least the last 15 years, under the noses of all the institutions which should have acted: those institutions include Europe and the Commission.
Any new waste-management plan in that sense must not remain on paper, as we have seen in the past, but needs to be strictly implemented.
