Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 17 November 2000.
Ladies and gentlemen, like all of you, I am sure, I would have liked to have been able to open this part-session without having to announce further news of the latest victims of ETA terrorism.
Unfortunately, our democracies have been sent a new message of violence in the form of the particularly heinous murder of Ernest Lluch.
Known as a key player in the Spanish transition to democracy and for his contribution to Catalonia' s autonomous status, loved for his warmth, respected for his qualities as a politician and a great academic, Ernest Lluch was targeted by his murderers purely because of his dedication to the rule of law.
Madam President, I must protest against this decision, on the grounds that procedural motions can be made for very important, very serious reasons.
This has been noted, Mr Dell' Alba.
On many occasions Parliament has expressed itself in favour of a firm stand on the Kyoto commitments.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me to share with you my impressions of the sixth conference of the parties, the so-called COP6, to the United Nations framework convention on climate change, that took place the past two weeks in The Hague.
After intensive negotiations, both at technical and ministerial level, on the basis of draft decisions with approximately 500 square brackets, it was not possible to reach a comprehensive agreement on key political issues.
The European Union negotiating position concentrated on safeguarding the environmental integrity of the Kyoto protocol in the areas of land-use change and forestry, the "sinks" issue, the relation between the Kyoto mechanism and domestic action, known as "supplementarity" , and compliance.
With good technical progress on the rules for the Kyoto mechanisms and the development of a compliance system, final negotiations focused mainly on trade-offs between "supplementarity" and "sinks" .
However, there was not enough time to fully evaluate last minute compromise proposals on the use of "sinks" in terms of their impact on the different countries inside and outside the European Union.
In order not to let the mandate of the Buenos Aires plan of action, that ran until the so-called COP6 conference, expire without any concrete result or follow-up, parties have decided to suspend COP6 and resume the conference in May 2001.
For example, a set of proposals responding to developing countries' needs and concerns was drawn up, including new funding and new institutions, but also a more focused approach on climate change within the global environment facility - the so-called GEF.
Also progress was made at the technical level on other issues, such as policies and measures to reduce emissions, capacity building, technology transfer, emissions trading, joint implementation and compliance.
Another positive outcome of COP6 is that it helped to obtain a better understanding of other parties' positions.
Mr Pronk was a very dedicated president of COP6.
Consequently, there was not enough time to analyse all the impacts of the different proposals relating to sinks that were made in the final hours.
We all knew that, in order to get an agreement with the United States and its allies of the "umbrella group" , the European Union would have to make concessions.
As a priority, evaluation and preparation of further discussions should take place within the European Union.
The EU must review its positions on the key issues and, where appropriate, make new proposals.
The Commission is fully committed to developing a strong common EU line together with the incoming presidency.
An absolute pre-condition for an agreement on "sinks" at the next session is to have one common set of data, instead of every party doing its own calculation.
However, the internal preparation for ratification through the European climate change programme and the development of a European Union emissions trading scheme will continue.
Thank you for your attention and I am willing to answer any questions you might have.
The European Parliament delegation to the talks was equally disappointed at the outcome, although we were not surprised.
The agreement would have placed a ceiling on the use of forest sinks by the United States, Japan and Canada, a ceiling which Europe had been asking for, and strengthen the scientific requirements applied to the domestic sinks.
The question is whether we actually need a global convention before we can start to reduce our own emissions.
Madam President, these negotiations were always going to be hard but Commission officials believed that a deal would be done at the end of the day because political leaders across the world simply had too much to lose by returning home empty-handed.
It is a matter of huge disappointment that agreement was not reached and I very much regret that the end of the convention was marred by a dispute between Britain' s Deputy Prime Minister and the French Presidency over the compromise proposals he put forward.
The disagreement within Europe is all the more regrettable because my overriding impression of the convention was of a European Union negotiating as a closely-knit team, from a position which crossed party lines and united Member States behind shared principles, a shared outlook and a shared sense of anger at the refusal of the Americans to face up to their responsibilities as the world' s largest emitters of greenhouse gases.
Therefore, we must give greater priority to bringing in and gaining the support of nations elsewhere, to getting emissions trading up and running, and to taking real action to reduce global warming gases in this Union.
Money talks in American politics more than it does within our Union.
The developing countries are to receive USD 1 billion after 2005.
If the clean development mechanism starts working then they will receive between USD 5 billion and USD 25 billion in addition, annually.
President Pronk acquitted himself well as far as the developing countries are concerned but his compromise was lacking in terms of environmental issues.
Of course forests eat up CO2 but once they are fully grown this no longer happens.
The solution must be found in energy efficiency and renewable sources of energy.
Fortunately, 14 of the 15 Ministers for the Environment were of the same mind on this issue.
Every citizen of the world has an equal right to CO2-emission, i.e.
Only if equality is incorporated will the developing countries start to participate in the fight against climate change after 2012.
Parliament has recently pronounced itself in favour of a number of steps that will take us in the right direction.
The European position during the climate conference, which ended - and evidently broke down - in The Hague last Saturday, was characterised by two sharply conflicting views.
One view is that we should stick closely to the 1997 agreements in order to reduce emissions by a generous 5%, as compared with 1990.
My group favours the first view.
It is important for Europe to stick with a position taken up previously, even though it means that the United States will not be in a position to subscribe to an agreement of this kind for the period of the Bush administration.
Finally, the Third World is only in the very early stages of industrialisation.
The emission of greenhouse gases will increase dramatically as a result.
That is why we need to keep these realities in mind in the follow-up to the climate conference.
Madam President, I am extremely disappointed, like the vast majority of the House and the previous speakers, that the UN world climate change summit was not a success in The Hague.
It is regrettable that the participants did not reach an agreement on how best to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the future.
The Kyoto accord of three years ago set out a timetable for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
It has already been said that the next meeting to discuss the issue of the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will take place in Bonn, which will coincide with a publication by the United Nations intergovernmental panel on climate change.
The European Union must take a lead in this matter.
The Environment Committee and Parliament have set a good example in the past as to how we should collectively address the issue of greenhouse gas reductions in the future.
Although I do not have a good word to say about the US stance, one thing I do know is that the United States were prepared to achieve an acceptable compromise at the end of the conference.
The intransigence of the European Union, led by the French Minister for the Environment, Mrs Voynet, stood in the way of a potential agreement.
In reality, the chances of reaching agreement in the future are slimmer, which means that an effective strategy for tackling the climate problem is an even more remote prospect.
In any case, an agreement can only be accepted and acceptable if there is a balance between North and South, between developing countries and industrialised countries.
The Conference in The Hague is to be resumed, as you have informed us, Commissioner, next spring in Bonn.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us not beat about the bush, the climate conference in The Hague was a flop, which is disappointing because it is becoming increasingly apparent that climate change is happening much faster than anticipated.
The European Union is going to have to carefully assess its own role.
It is not enough to blame the United States or to complain about the lack of flexibility shown by others.
The climate conference will resume in the spring.
I am bound to regret the fact, however, that the will of some ministers of the 15 Member States has been directed more towards racing to attend press conferences than creating a genuine spirit of unity that will guarantee a global policy on climate change.
By May, by Bonn, the European Union must take action on two fronts: firstly through diplomacy, since the scenario that the United States will ratify the agreement is the least likely, and so diplomatic action must be developed with the other members of the umbrella group.
Only if we have this credibility will the European Union be able to lead the debate and the action at COP­VI "B" in Bonn.
Madam President, thank you for your support and a special thanks to the European Parliamentary delegation who were there in The Hague.
However, climate change has already happened, it is already there.
Maybe we should not be too worried about taking a little more time, a few months more, to decide on the rules and the framework, the legal framework, that must be put in place in order to operate the huge economic market that will be created.
We had too much left on the table for these negotiations and we will have to try to sort that out.
Sometimes these negotiations are extremely chaotic, and I think that you can always go home and look back saying that we made this mistake or that mistake.
However, for the environment ministers present at The Hague, and you know we have also set the tone here, the main objectives were to defend the credibility and integrity of the Kyoto Protocol.
The Americans presented us with a proposal that would have reduced their commitment by between 70 and 90 per cent.
We were very constructive and we negotiated until the last minute of these talks in The Hague.
We now know what kind of questions we will have on the table for this last part.
Of course the follow up of the next COP6 or the continuation of COP6 will be to ratify an agreement inside the Union.
The debate is closed.
Preparation of Nice European Council and trade policy The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the preparation of the Nice European Council from 7 to 9 December 2000, including trade policy.
The President of the Republic himself is coming here on 12 December to present a report on the Presidency.
The major issue facing the members of the European Council at Nice will clearly be the reform of the institutions and the finalisation of what we all hope will become the Treaty of Nice.
There was also a beneficial clarification of the issues around the Commission and the weighting of votes, allowing each Member State to get a better idea of the objectives and difficulties of the others.
Pierre Moscovici reported to you on that on 24 October.
We have been building on that foundation over the last few weeks taking all the points of view into account with a view to arriving at a compromise, but keeping our sights set on an ambitious agreement at Nice.
Some countries still have major problems regarding the coordination of social security systems, tax, asylum, visa and immigration matters and trade negotiations on services - a very important issue.
But we will approach Nice with a positive attitude, determined to make progress as many aspects of these sensitive issues as possible.
The role of the European Parliament is naturally one of the important elements in the debate.
The Fifteen are now close to agreement on making enhanced cooperation more flexible.
You discussed this on 24 October, and on several points the Intergovernmental Conference is reaching solutions close to those advocated by Parliament.
The minimum number of participating Member States should be set at eight while the clause allowing appeal to the European Council, which currently constitutes a real right of veto, would be replaced by a power of retrieval.
Parliament has made proposals on its role in triggering enhanced cooperation in the Community sphere.
As regards the CFSP, several Member States have emphasised its specific nature which, in their view, warrants special mechanisms, and they have been stressing that particularly in the last few days.
On the Commission, two options were on the table at Biarritz: capping the number of Commissioners, or a Commission made up of one representative from each Member State.
This at least provides a serious avenue to be explored in Nice, one that still remains to be defined and clarified but on which a clear majority of the delegations is ready to work.
Progress has also been made on increasing the powers of the President of the Commission and a possible increase in the number of Vice-Presidents.
Finally on the weighting of votes in the Council, there are also two main options on the table since the Biarritz declaration: either a double majority or a simple reweighting.
Let me add that we have not yet reached agreement on the distribution of seats in the European Parliament.
To end this brief report on the negotiations, we have also made good progress on strengthening Article 7 of the Treaty which should in future provide for an early warning system in the event of a threatened violation of the European Union' s fundamental principles.
On the other hand, the idea of a reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights in Article 6, championed by the European Parliament in its recommendation of 14 November, and placed on the table at the IGC by the French Presidency, was vigorously rejected by several Member States.
All the delegations agree on giving the European Parliament the possibility of seeking the Court' s opinion on a draft international agreement.
On the other hand, even though the Presidency has also proposed extending to Parliament the right of appeal to the Court under Article 230, several delegations are against that at this stage.
Finding an agreement which will enable the Union to operate after the new accessions currently in active preparation is vital for the future of the European Union and indeed the enlarged Union.
The Nice European Council will also be tackling other major issues on which the French Presidency has worked with a great deal of determination.
The discussion on a possible legal status for this Charter will be pursued after Nice and could form part of a broader, longer term debate on the future of the European Union.
The European Council will also discuss the state of progress of the accession negotiations and hence of the enlargement.
You yourselves debated this on 3 October.
At the General Affairs Council of 20 November we had a very good debate based on the excellent documents the Commission had forwarded to the Council.
A meeting of that conference has just taken place at ministerial level, at Sochaux.
At the Nice meeting there will be an exchange of views with all the candidate countries on the reform of the European Union' s institutions, and more generally on the outlook for the future of Europe.
The Lisbon European Council approved guidelines designed to promote an innovative and competitive European economy.
So a report will be passed to the European Council which will finalise the definition of performance indicators in spheres such as employment, innovation, economic reform and social cohesion.
As you know, last Monday the Ecofin Council reached a decisive agreement on fiscal harmonisation.
In this sphere, following on from Lisbon, the French Presidency made the adoption of the social agenda one of its priorities.
The Presidency invited all the institutions concerned - this Parliament, but equally the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, European social partners and the intergovernmental organisations - to contribute to drawing up this agenda.
The social agenda draws together the objectives and initiatives which need to be taken over the next five to ten years, particularly in the areas of labour law, social protection, social mobility, lifelong training, and the fight against discrimination and exclusion.
A report on the measures the Presidency has taken in this area will be presented to the European Council in Nice.
The French Presidency set itself the objective of improving the definition of the precautionary principle.
The Biarritz European Council took note of the Commission report on the necessary additional measures.
I know that the European Parliament is working on the first package.
You know, moreover, the importance which Member States attach to adopting texts quickly.
This entire area must be given fresh political impetus in Nice with a view to the final Transport Council on 20 and 21 December, for it is true that the French Presidency does not come to an end in Nice.
The French Presidency wished to support the updating of the Commission' s 1996 communication on the services of general economic interest with some consideration of the place of public services or, to use the accepted term, general interest services in Europe.
The Presidency wanted to restate the basic principles governing the Community' s approach in this area, including primarily the freedom of Member States to define and organise their own public services while respecting the rules of the Treaty.
These principles will be highlighted in a statement which the Presidency wishes to annex to the Nice conclusions.
Finally, we have prepared a statement for the European Council on the specific economic, social and cultural characteristics of sport and its social functions in Europe.
The primary purpose of a new treaty is to ensure that the Union will continue to be able to function after enlargement.
I am now pleased to say that the negotiators are close to an agreement on the provisions governing, for example, closer cooperation, the Court of Justice, the democratic values of Article 7 and deepening the involvement of European political parties in the democratic life of our Member States and institutions.
I sense that we are approaching a reasonable compromise on the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes in the Council.
Whatever the number of Commissioners, the important thing is to give the President of the Commission all the powers needed to run the College effectively.
Similarly, any change in the weighting of votes in the Council must also guarantee that decisions cannot be taken against the will of the majority of Member States.
If the Union is to be effective, the Conference must make substantial progress on this, and that also means extending the codecision procedure. (Applause)Member States naturally find it politically difficult to give up the right of veto in sensitive areas such as social policy, asylum and immigration, common trade policy, cohesion and taxation, even when this relates only to the technical changes necessary to make the single market work.
Indeed, mathematics and 50 years of experience show beyond a doubt that even modest enlargements make it far more difficult to reach unanimous agreements.
In a Union of 27 or more Member States, the unanimity requirement will, quite simply, paralyse progress in every area where it is maintained.
Mark my words: if the Member States' veto on justice and home affairs is maintained, we shall be severely delayed in implementing the programme agreed at Tampere or even unable to do so.
Under the present rules, certain aspects of negotiations on services are covered by the unanimity requirement, precisely because our Treaties were originally commercial treaties governing goods and not services.
The problem currently plaguing our trade policy is that, because negotiations cover a wide range of sectors, including services, any progress whatsoever in goods as well as service sectors is almost inevitably held up by unanimity voting.
The simple and natural solution - and this has, in fact, been a majority view during the Conference - would be to change the present rules so that qualified majority voting applies to all aspects of such negotiations, including services.
At the next plenary session in Strasbourg, I shall tell this House whether, in my view, the enlarged Union we are all determined to achieve will be able to act effectively or not.
When all is said and done, that is the criterion by which Nice must be judged. (Applause) Important decisions will be taken in Nice to ensure that the European Union is able to assume its own responsibilities in the world.
The prevention of conflict and crisis management are traditional areas of Community activity.
It is our task to fulfil our commitments against the backdrop of new ambitious objectives which the Union has set itself.
I would stress that this in no way detracts from the fact that, for the Member States concerned, NATO remains the basis of the collective defence of its members and will continue to play an important role in crisis management.
The Commission is convinced that only an integrated approach to crises can guarantee the consistency and efficiency necessary for the Union to be able to play its full role on the international scene.
Crisis management requires the Community to show an increased capacity to react, but this must be translated into action in a way that fully respects our institutional framework as established by the Treaties.
You spoke of codecision by the European Parliament.
The majority of our group take the view that the Charter should not only be ceremonially proclaimed but should also become European law.
I would like the Council to comment on the fact that the cooperation procedure is being replaced by consultation in relation to economic policy (Article 99(5)), and yet unanimity is being maintained in Article 13 (anti-discrimination).
With regard to enhanced cooperation, we believe that in the first pillar there should be assent from Parliament and, in commercial policy, I repeat our concern and our request for a strengthening, not a weakening, of Community competence.
With regard to the composition and functioning of the three institutions, my Group agrees with the proposal of the joint resolution.
I believe that this would even go back on what was agreed in Biarritz.
I think this is completely unacceptable and, of course, it is a good argument in favour of ending the closed door method for the Intergovernmental Conferences, which has had its day, so that we can hold discussions in public and find out who could say such scandalous things. (Applause) I also hope that the President will not mind if I repeat that we believe it is important that we can advocate the Charter with dignity, regardless of what we do after Nice.
Two things were said at Helsinki to candidate states in Europe.
We in this Parliament will be required at the end of that process to give or not to give our assent.
My appeal to you, Mr President-in-Office, is to present us in this Parliament a document worthy of this Parliament's assent and a document worthy of the scale of the historic challenge we face in Europe.
To do less than that is to fail Europe and this House, when it reviews Nice, cannot allow Europe to fail.
It should not become an issue which traduces the Union into a false contest between the interests of the large and the small, when the common European interest should be the central goal.
We support enhanced cooperation but insist that it must be open-ended and open to all and not exclusive and must be based and rooted in a way which respects the 'acquis communautaire'.
If we proclaim it as something with meaning, it must find roots, and we still commend to you to root it in Article 6.
I believe that we can succeed but, Mr President-in-Office, we need your Presidency to mobilise the Council for Europe by animating the Nice Council to achieve something which is genuinely historic.
However, it is important at this stage to discuss what is to happen post-Nice.
Our group strongly supports constitutionalising the European Union Treaties, and this also means that the reform of the Treaties should be open, with civil society being able to participate in this process.
The Nice Summit cannot succeed unless the system of qualified majority voting is extended.
Madam President, Mr President of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I do not believe that the Governments of the 15 Member States have covered themselves in glory.
The summit will only be a success if it opts for truly comprehensive reform of the institutions and sends a clear signal that this Union is capable of enlargement.
If democracy is to be strengthened, this naturally implies that majority voting must be accompanied by a right of codecision for the European Parliament.
But success in Nice also means that there must be more than mere proclamation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I find it quite intolerable that several governments have simply brushed aside the question of including a reference to the Charter in Article 6 of the Treaty.
Let me say clearly, just as other Members before me have done, that in my view a reference to the Charter in the Treaty is just as indispensable as a broad public debate with the people of the Union.
The real success or failure of Nice will be measured by whether governments finally begin to take people's concerns and needs seriously.
The European Union must attach foremost political priority to the struggle against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a week away from the Nice European Council, we are forced to note that it is still not very clear what institutional measures are going to be adopted.
Matters are particularly vague regarding the, to my mind, key issue of the potential extension of majority voting within the Council, particular on two truly vital issues.
As much as we think international cooperation is essential, we find it unacceptable to use majority voting to force the hand of one or more Member States on such issues of sovereignty.
There is another area of uncertainty involving the extension of the Community procedures of Article 133 to the negotiation of international agreements on services, intellectual property and investments.
Let us not start again tomorrow with a new multilateral agreement on investment or new talks on agriculture post Seattle.
Over qualified majority voting and weighting, there will, in all probability, be vetos from all sides which will paralyse the demands of Parliament and the public for a move towards democratisation of our system, towards making majority voting the general rule.
I therefore appeal to President Prodi, who has rightly promised that he will tell us in Strasbourg whether or not the Commission will be able act effectively, whether or not the Union will be able to act effectively after the Nice Summit.
Mr Prodi, present your objections to the Summit, assume the responsibility, not of establishing a role for us as the post-Nice panel of judges, but of playing right to the very last the card of defending first and foremost the European institutions, the Commission and Parliament in particular.
Mr President, the draft Nice treaty is more like a constitution for a federal State than an agreement for an association of States.
The powers to be given to the EU by the Treaty of Nice treaty go beyond those exercised at federal level in many federal States.
Decisions on foreign and security policy are also to be adopted on the basis of majority voting.
With enhanced cooperation, the right of veto over treaty changes is also destroyed - not formally, but in practice - because a qualified majority will in future be able to ignore resistance from, for example, Denmark, Sweden and Great Britain or other places in which the undemocratic idea might arise of asking the electorate what it thinks.
The federalists can achieve their desire for more integration, and the governments in Sweden, Great Britain and Denmark can ease their countries into the new arrangements once the decisions, binding in practice, have been taken.
Nice will transfer so much power from the electorate that it ought to be treated as a genuine constitutional change and only come into force once it has been approved in referendums in those countries in which referendums are possible.
Mr President, the very title of this item on our agenda indicates the importance of Article 133 in the debate on the extension of qualified majority voting.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Prodi, what matters most as far as the PPE-DE Group is concerned, is for the IGC to reach a successful conclusion.
But according to our heads of government, it is also a question of demonstrating that there is no adequate solution to the major issues confronting us in the European Union.
Mr President, Europe needs leadership, clarity, choices and decisiveness.
In view of the extent to which public confidence has been undermined with regard to the euro, people need to see that we are taking steps forward.
It is extremely sad that a situation has developed where large and small countries have come to take opposite sides.
The Commission is, and remains, the driving force, and if the Commission does not emerge from Nice in a stronger position then it will be a black day for Europe.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Parliament is required to give its opinion on essential matters.
We understand that not all the elements are on the table yet, but I trust that wisdom will carry the day at the Nice Summit.
For us Members of the European Parliament, the essential thing is primarily to make our voice heard where it might be useful.
As practically everyone who has spoken before me here has said, we want a reference to the Charter in Article 6.2.
The second point I should like to stress is, obviously, the scope of qualified majority.
In that respect, there are various proposals on the table.
Regarding trade policy, the Commission has drawn up a proposal which must be carefully examined.
We are in favour of developing democratic responsibility in this area.
However, while we feel that this proposal needs to be examined carefully, it must also enable all parties to conserve the elements that make up their identity, particularly, no doubt, Europe' s cultural identity.
As you know, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we shall also examine qualified majority voting according to the yardstick of extending the scope of codecision.
In that respect, let me draw your attention to one specific point: the extension of codecision to the common agricultural policy.
If we trust to democracy, then it is not normal for 45% of the EU budget to lie outside the scope of codecision.
Yes, we do think that the Nice Council conclusions should include a request that the Commission should draw up a framework directive in this field.
Although the previous Treaty made some progress in extending the formula, it also brought in the crazy formula of codecision plus unanimity for citizenship, social security, the rights of the self-employed and also cultural policy.
Those who are in Nice, out on the streets and in the dozens of forums and meetings scheduled will, in my opinion, at least be able to push for one result, namely that this will be the last IGC, that the hazy reflection on the future of Europe Mr Védrine spoke of will translate into the launch at Nice of a process which will establish the time frames and methods for drawing up and adopting a democratic European Constitution.
Mr President, I was involved in securing Denmark' s positive vote against the Treaty of Maastricht in 1992.
A decision in Nice to the effect that, for example, the applicant States must have the opportunity to participate in the next elections to the European Parliament could help put the necessary pressure on the EU itself, so that enlargement can become a reality.
With regard to the conclusion of the IGC, what must take place in Nice is that an agreement must be reached which whilst correcting the deficit in the functioning of the European institutions, does not affect the existing balance between Member States and, of course, between these States and the Union.
The very fact that this issue is being debated now is in itself a clear sign of the failure of a policy to strengthen ties of mutual trust between the countries that comprise the Union.
We are not the only ones to say this; the French Presidency has also said as much through its minister, Mr Moscovici, who acknowledged in a recent interview that the positions that have been adopted during the course of this year, particularly by President Chirac and by the German Minister for Foreign Affairs, Joschka Fischer, on the future organisation of the Union have had the direct effect of heightening a climate of mistrust between small and large Member States, which will inevitably be reflected in the results of the Nice European Council.
Furthermore, the text of the proposal for a compromise resolution that we will be voting on reflects this unease to a certain extent, because its generic nature is clear to see.
It is also, however, a text in which its authors, even in the knowledge that they risk predictable political failure, reveal a vision that is focused above all on the powers and competences of the European Parliament itself, and call for ever greater resources for parliamentary intervention without dedicating a single word to the crucial role of national parliaments.
We all know that the purpose of the Nice Summit is to finalise the work of a conference held between governments, who are accountable not to the European Parliament but to their own national parliaments, which categorically demonstrates the sovereign nature of this process of revising the Treaties.
Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, today at talks in the House, the President of Latvia directed this reproachful remark at us: "We have been doing our homework!" The question is whether the Heads of State and Government of the European Union have been doing their homework too.
It is now the eve of its conclusion and we are aware of the progress which has been made, the partial results which have been achieved, but frankly, over almost ten months of a major Intergovernmental Conference, there has been no rapprochement of the positions, Mr Védrine, and no definition of agreements, not to mention the fact that some of the topics indicated by Parliament in its resolution of 13 April, ranging from the regulation of the economy to the institutional implications of the common defence policy, have not even been debated.
The experience of this year has convinced us that, looking beyond Nice towards the future of Europe, the process of constitutionalising the Union must not be carried out by means of the - now dysfunctional - method of negotiations between government representatives.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has made its contribution in the form of the resolution adopted on 21 November, which draws attention to certain points which are truly vitally important if the outcome of the Conference is to be successful, and I will not go back over them.
If this contradiction is responsible for the negative outcome of the Conference, it will mean a crisis for European integration.
Mr President, even Paris is divided over Nice.
The French President and the First Minister seem to be more obsessed with their own political future than with that of Europe.
It seems as if some governments are already reconciling themselves to a new IGC for enlargement.
The governments have lost sight of the urgent need for reforms because they are concentrating too much on their own position of power in the new set-up.
The weighting of votes in the Council must do justice to the population numbers in the Member States, which means that it is quite acceptable for there to be some corresponding differences between the larger and smaller countries.
The Charter does not deserve to be left in a vacuum, with no clear status.
Mr President I would like to remind the Council and Commission, and indeed the House, of a resolution that we carried on 26 October in relation to better law-making.
It bears also in a most important way on the question of the size of this Parliament.
The nations and regions which the parties of the European Free Alliance represent are deeply concerned that if we apply together the maximum of 700 and the current idea of digressive proportionality, the people whom we are able to represent here at the present time will effectively cease to be represented in this House.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for a youngster like me, Nice certainly represents a great hope for a new Europe, in political as well as institutional terms.
On the other hand, I would stress the considerable importance of providing our Europe with strong institutions to fill the institutional void being created by progress on the economic front with the euro.
Having said this, in my opinion, Nice needs to be an historic Council, for ourselves, our nations and the very future of Europe.
Mr President, in this Parliament, which is a pluralist parliament, we have today achieved an unusual degree of unanimity amongst the Members who have spoken.
I believe that all the speakers are very concerned about the results of the Nice European Council.
This is not a question - despite what my friend, Elmar Brok, has said - of two exams that we have to pass; Amsterdam and Nice.
I remember the enlargement of 1995, when the question of institutional issues was already being raised, and I remember a letter from Chancellor Kohl in which he told us to approve enlargement and then the rest would be resolved immediately.
This is what worries us and it worries all this afternoon' s speakers.
And with this extension, when the decisions are legislative, will there always be codecision with Parliament?
The second one, Mr President, is the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that is the great political task of this European Council.
The stated aim of this review is to design more efficient institutions which will be able to cope with an enlarged Europe and, at the same time, to reduce the democratic deficit which certainly exists.
In the case of enhanced cooperation, no agreement has yet been reached on making provision for assent by the European Parliament in order to start the procedure.
Finally, not only has the Charter of Fundamental Rights not yet been incorporated into the text of the Treaty; it has barely even been agreed to mention it in Article 6.
Of course, I am delighted about the positive aspects, such as the issue of European political parties and Article 7, which have already been commented on.
The national parliaments are waiting for our opinion.
Mr President, the debate on Article 133 and commercial policy needs to be part of a much wider effort to bring transparency and democracy to the EU' s decision-making on trade.
That means it is not only a question of the Parliament having a much greater role in decision-making on trade.
But it also means restructuring the Committee 133 itself: making it far more accountable; ensuring that its agenda and conclusions are accessible and that its composition is broad and inclusive.
Mr President, the EU summit at Nice will hopefully be a further positive step on the road to European integration.
The recent Commission report on the progress of the countries from Central and Eastern Europe who have made application for membership is encouraging I must say.
We must not forget that our ultimate goal is to create the economic and social environment to enable the EU to become a dominant player in world trade with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe playing their full part and benefiting from a peaceful and stable European economy.
However enlargement of the European Union must not dilute or dissipate the influence of smaller Member States with key national interests which must be protected.
Mr President, I am addressing the Commission President and the President-in-Office of the Council in French in order to get my message across as clearly as possible.
We must instigate a major debate among the citizens of Europe, getting them involved in our debates.
In conclusion, I urge you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr President of the Commission to give some thought to the provisions which would have to be incorporated into the Treaty of Nice in order for us to have this major debate and to avoid the utterly Kremlin-style approach of agreeing matters behind closed doors, in order to instigate debate with a view to a new European framework, whether or not it be constitutional, so that we may have direct contact with our electorate and may make a major success of the European Union in the future.
Mr President, I am speaking not just to the President-in-Office of the Council but also to all the governments of the Member States when I say that if agreement is not reached in Nice on these difficult issues those issues will not go away.
So a final major effort is necessary over the next two weeks.
This is no more so than on the issue of qualified majority voting.
The problem is if you put the lists of exceptions next to each other you will find there are very few areas of substance where it is agreed to switch to qualified majority voting.
Of course some governments will be attacked in their Member States by opposition parties, by euro-sceptics, saying, "you are giving up the national right of veto" .
So in a Union of 27 Member States for every veto you trade in, 26 other vetoes are being given up at the same time.
Everyone can gain from a system of qualified majority voting.
If we are to have more qualified majority voting on legislation it must go hand in hand with codecision, not only for the new areas which will come to qualified majority voting but also for the existing areas that already come under qualified majority voting.
This is essential for democracy at Union level.
To adopt European legislation you must pass two tests: acceptability to the elected governments meeting in the Council, and acceptability to the directly-elected MEPs in the European Parliament.
In more than three quarters of the cases we do not even need the Conciliation Committee; the two readings each in Council and Parliament are enough to reach agreement.
Finally, there is the question of the number of seats in the European Parliament.
But a first transition will also have to be made for the parliament to be elected in 2004 because at least some new Member States will come in before or during the Parliament to be elected in 2004 which will last until 2009.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen.
As far as voting in the Council is concerned, I think that the double majority is the best system because it is more representative and more objective.
As far as extending qualified majority voting is concerned, we are agreed that, unless we make some sort of move in this direction, we shall encounter a great many problems.
As far as foreign policy is concerned, we now live in Mr Solana's bright and beautiful world and let me tell you - if we leave the common foreign policy solely within the framework of intergovernmental cooperation, then we shall be making a big mistake.
The common foreign policy needs to be fully integrated into Community procedure because only then shall we have the necessary safety valves.
Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must, of course, mention the Charter, which affects millions of European citizens.
Mr President I wish to focus my speech on three basic points.
The President-in-Office of the Council addressed the issue of closer cooperation and said that we are on the way to reaching consensus on this matter.
The second issue concerns the overall agreement already considered here by my colleague and Chairman of the Socialist Group, Enrique Barón Crespo, which is, fortunately, part of the resolution that the European Parliament will surely adopt tomorrow.
According to how one sees the matter, however, what is being prepared now is a change to this balance and an increase in the representation of the larger countries, both in the Council and in Parliament.
In other words, we are sending them the message that in Europe we treat consumers better than we treat the citizens of the European Union themselves.
We therefore encourage and urge the Presidency once again to make every effort to ensure that there is at least one reference to the Treaties in Nice because this would be the best tribute we could pay to the work of the Members of the European Parliament, the Commission and even the representatives of the governments involved in the Convention on drafting the Charter.
Our public in the EU and the public in the candidate countries will not accept the prospect of Nice leftovers, of a second IGC in 2004.
I hope that we are in a position to congratulate the French Presidency for its success; but if you fail, we shall be harsh in our condemnation.
Mr President, on the face of it, the Nice Summit is all about making the necessary adaptations and dealing with the leftovers in the light of enlargement.
That is why qualified majority voting must always go hand in hand with Parliament' s right of codecision.
So we evidently make an enormous contribution in qualitative terms.
As Mrs Berès said, it is of course untenable to draw a distinction and give us codecision rights in consumer affairs on the one hand, but at the same time, only give us consultation rights in agricultural matters.
Mr Méndez de Vigo has just made reference to the Charter, and rightly so.
I venture to doubt whether consensus will be easier to achieve in the new extended family than it is now.
President Prodi, it will not be easy for you, just as it will not be easy for the Heads of State and Government together with whom you will have to find a solution to the many issues under debate, including the vital enlargement, the reform of the institutions and the replacement of outdated mechanisms, and the proclamation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is the first real step towards the European Constitution in which we believe.
With regard to freedoms, individual rights and scientific research, the peoples and their representatives who are present in this and the national parliaments must have the final say.
In short, we must all aim high, and, in order to do this, we must believe implicitly in what we are doing.
I think it was first mentioned in 1989 actually.
Some Member States were even against mentioning social affairs or new rights.
We proposed that during the discussions and several countries opposed it, threatening to withdraw their agreement to the very principle of the Charter if we insisted on Article 6.
The Presidency must be democratic.
I would also say that I do not think there is a problem between 'larger and 'smaller' countries.
In the matter of the Intergovernmental Conference, the only issue where people said there was a disagreement between larger and smaller countries lay with the Commission.
That is inaccurate too, because the proposals made were not proposals by the larger countries to penalise the smaller ones.
As regards what has been said on qualified majority voting, Mr Poettering will forgive me, but I thought it was a little bit facile to name just one country and act as if that country' s shift in its position relating to its own problems was sufficient to bring about a large shift in the others.
In developing the idea that it would be advantageous in the future to have a Commission that was not too large to be effective and retained its full capabilities, especially its power of initiative, we demonstrated that we too were ready to make that sacrifice.
The same applies to qualified majority voting issues.
If one country has an internal problem, that does not make another country' s internal problem disappear.
We have done a great deal of work, but we have run up against the same old problem and I do not think a shift in a single country can start the ball rolling, because yet again we are faced with very tough national, political and democratic situations in twelve of the fifteen countries.
I am quite aware that it will not become a Constitution overnight, but I also know full well that it will be a constant reference point for us from Nice onwards with regard to the principles according to which the European institutions are to proceed and the principles which the European peoples are to follow to unite in preparation for future cooperation.
To sum up, Mr Védrine, you mentioned that the situation here appears to be too tense, and you also spoke of a certain pessimism.
Well then, I would like to reply to your appeal with an appeal of my own.
I am well aware that 15 countries will make the decisions at Nice and that the role of the Presidency is not to be a one-man-band, but I have also learned through experience what the role of the Presidency and the responsibility of the French Presidency are.
In recent weeks, we have with great confidence and responsibility presented the French Presidency with a series of major decisions to be taken, aware of the role that France has consistently played in advancing the progress of the European institutions.
Although, as you rightly said, we cannot place all the responsibility upon France, we do know that France must demonstrate its great leadership abilities as a driving force by example.
But we also expect something else from France.
However, in my opinion, the Presidency's role is of fundamental importance in this case as well, because I am quite aware that, if France is able to interpret the general interest with regard to the decisions on Article 133, none of the other countries will be able to resist the change.
We are all awaiting this step forward for it is not a step forward just for France but for the whole of Europe. (Applause) This Minister, is what we expect from France, inspired precisely by the great confidence which we have in your country and in the leadership ability that we know France can display at difficult times in Europe's progress. (Applause) Thank you very much Mr President of the Commission.
To conclude these statements, I have received nine motions for resolutions from eight groups, in accordance with Rule 37, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure..
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow.
I wish to refer to the disgraceful demonstration that took place in the Foreign Affairs Committee of this Parliament yesterday morning when the Turkish Minister of Foreign Affairs was involved in discussions with us.
To that end, we must put the requisite organisational and security structure in place, which also means our guests being directly protected by people who are trained for that purpose, because we naturally cannot employ foreign security staff to escort our guests.
Please take this very seriously, so that we can continue to receive guests in future and so that we can treat them as guests ought to be treated.
I would say to Mr Wurtz that it is a part of the process of trying to open up the prospect of European integration for Turkey that we show them the sanctity and power of parliamentary democracy.
Mr President, I should like to draw both your and the House's attention to the incident which Mr Wurtz referred to, i.e.
the fact that the Turkish Government refused a visa to the Cypriot member of parliament and parliamentary representative of AKEL, Andreas Christou, who was due to attend a meeting of Turkish, Greek and Cypriot parties in Istanbul.
It goes without saying that we in this house of European democracy must guarantee the safety of all our guests and anyone who spends time within these four walls.
Mr President, I am just taking the floor to inform you that a delegation of workers from Telecom Italia is present in Parliament today.
Telecom Italia is a leading company in the telecommunications sector.
Pino Arlacchi, Under Secretary-General of the United Nations and Executive Director of the UN Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention, condemned the Italian Minister for Health's speech, for the Minister was clearly ignorant of the good news on prevention recorded in the United States, Spain and even Bolivia and Peru, and Mr Arlacchi called upon the Italian government ... (The President cut the speaker off) At the beginning of today's sitting, Madame President paid homage to the memory of Ernest Lluch.
In 1966, Ernest Lluch, his brother and myself, with more than 60 other members of the teaching staff were expelled by the Francoist regime from the University of Barcelona.
From that time on, in spite of our different political opinions, I recognised the sincere commitment of Ernest Lluch in the struggle for dialogue and understanding, even facing the authoritarian position of the present government.
Mr President, last year the Council took an excellent initiative to create the first European Union forum on human rights.
This excellent initiative was repeated this year and the second forum will be held on 12 and 13 December in Paris, which is to say at the same time as the European Parliament' s part-session in Strasbourg.
I would therefore urge that, in response, our official representatives are not sent to this forum, and that, next year, a date should be agreed when Members of Parliament may attend, which means the dates of the Strasbourg sittings should be avoided when scheduling this important meeting.
Mr Gorostiaga, I have profound contempt for the terrorists of ETA, but the people who use this democratic Parliament in a cowardly fashion to justify the murders they commit deserve the same contempt.
Mr Gorostiaga, you are a disgrace to this Parliament.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to debate a single issue here.
However, I would like to ask Mr Gorostiaga whether he still has a sufficient trace of personal dignity, of dignity as a man, for us to ask him to respect human life.
I would say only that every action of ETA prompts ...
Mr Gorostiaga, I am going to interrupt you there.
Our main task is to ensure, by means of a judicious policy of prevention and astute civilian crisis management, that it is never necessary to use military force.
To this end, I believe that we must also initiate close cooperation between the institutions of the European Union and the Member States.
The European Union has four times as much money in its budget for foreign aid as the United States.
This view, moreover, also relates to the European Parliament.
The European Parliament very much wants to be involved in the formulation and pursuit of this policy, as the Treaties prescribe - and perhaps the Treaty of Nice will improve the relevant provisions - and as is laid down in the interinstitutional agreement between the Council, the Commission and Parliament on the budgetary responsibilities of the European Parliament in matters of foreign and security policy.
Mobilisation orders are also a national responsibility, because each country takes a sovereign decision as to whether or not it will participate in a joint operation.
Now that this division of responsibilities is crystal clear, we must ensure that we create a negotiating level between the European Parliament and the national parliaments, so that we as parliamentarians, through exchanges of information at various levels, are able to monitor the national executives in an appropriate way.
Talks are already taking place between the European Parliament and the national parliaments on this subject with a view to ensuring that the system develops in a rational manner.
When I speak of organisation, I also mean that the European Union, which makes such strenuous efforts in this field, should be given a corresponding degree of responsibility.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister, Commissioner, in dealing with European Security and Defence Policy this afternoon, we are, as President Brok just said, in a field where we can be optimistic about the construction of Europe.
On 15 June before the Feira Summit, the European Parliament passed a resolution, and tomorrow, on the eve of the Nice Council, it has to vote on a text summarising its position.
I already know the vote will not be unanimous and that is not surprising, because this is difficult ground where differing political options are expressed on the role of the European Union as opposed to that of its Member States, on the place of the soldier as opposed to the civilian, on the place of the European Union as opposed to NATO and the United States, on the role of the European Union in the world and the choice it has to make between pacifism and non-intervention, on the one hand, and the will to deal with crises, on the other.
The proposed text confirms the decisions of the European Council.
Secondly, you will note that the resolution affirms Parliament' s clear intention to place the security and defence policy squarely on two complementary pillars: civilian crisis management and, should that fail, military crisis management.
It is not enough to create bodies like the PSC, the Military Committee and the Military Staff; the vertical and horizontal links between the various bodies must also function properly and in real time.
We do not feel entirely reassured on this point and in particular we would like to have the crisis powers of the Commission, the Council and the High Representative specified precisely.
Of course, savings must be made, but we cannot exclude the need for new resources if we want to fill the gaps found in the inventory, especially in high-tech areas.
Mr President, like Mr Brok, I would like to stress the role of the European Parliament and the parliamentary institutions.
Because of the particular nature of the possible developments of the CESDP, we also believe that Treaty changes will be needed so that such developments can be conducted openly and democratically.
I shall then give a summary of the main results of the CFSP over the last six months.
First of all, enhancing the common foreign and security policy.
The mechanism created as a result of these decisions will be complemented by establishing procedures for crisis management and the establishment of an operations centre in the Secretariat-General.
As was laid down at Feira, these new structures will be put in place as soon as possible following the Nice Council.
These relationships will, in particular, take the form of meetings between the North Atlantic Council and the iPSC and of meetings between the European Union and the fifteen European candidate and/or ally countries.
We have also worked on enhancing civilian crisis management capabilities, in order especially to enable the European Union to achieve the objective that it has set for itself in the field of policing.
I also noted, in Mr Brok' s report, a number of questions and remarks on increasing the effectiveness of the European Union' s external action.
On 9 October, the General Affairs Council adopted conclusions on increasing coordination and improving management and the instruments necessary for decision-making.
As Mr Brok hopes in his report, the Council will have files summarising all of the relationships between the Union and each partner country, in order to gain greater benefit from the Union' s overall effort, to increase its efficiency and to provide better preparation for its discussions on external action.
For the first debate, at the beginning of next year, the Commission will draw up a scoreboard, country by country, for the past budgetary year, which will show the current state of commitments, payments, and outstanding amounts for the main programmes funded by the Community budget and by the EDF.
In this work, therefore, we have been very aware of the need for the Commission and the Member States to achieve greater complementarity in their aid actions for third countries whilst preserving, of course, the specific competences of the Commission.
I now wish to say a few words about the new instruments established by the Treaty of Amsterdam and about interinstitutional relations, which are both subjects on which, I noted, your reports expressed some concern.
Three common strategies have been adopted since May 1999, on Russia, on Ukraine and on the Mediterranean region.
The Presidency has now asked the Secretary-General - the High Representative - to draw up a preliminary assessment report on how these common strategies are functioning and on their optimal use.
We have shown on several major problems that we have faced in this period that we have achieved close and constructive cooperation between all the institutions.
We are definitely seeing a real policy in this region of south-eastern Europe, which is furthermore beginning to bear fruit.
I come now to a quick preliminary and, of course, still provisional assessment of the actions undertaken under the French Presidency in order to ensure a higher profile for the European Union in the international arena.
I shall therefore quickly look at a few regions and a few events.
The situation there has altered radically with the change of power in Belgrade, even if, of course, much remains to be done.
We have therefore kept our promise and the leaders of today' s Yugoslavia tell us that the message from the European Union played a genuine role in that affair at that time.
This does not mean that we consider all the problems to have been solved.
This is the context that explains why the summit held recently in Zagreb was so important.
We also applied ourselves to the issue of regional cooperation, an idea that met with a degree of resistance from the countries in the region that do not wish to be locked into a past from which they have broken free, and I think I can say that, as a result of this summit, they understood that there was no contradiction between regional cooperation and their progress and rapprochement in relation to the European Union, largely through the stabilisation and association process which was confirmed and laid down on that occasion.
Much then remains to be done, both in terms of consolidating democracy and in terms of regional cooperation, but we now have a framework and a sense of direction and I think that the European Union now knows where it is going in this area.
In parallel and at the same time, the European Union has continued to develop relations with major strategic partners such as Russia.
An EU-Ukraine Summit also took place, on 15 September, and the fruitful political dialogue that resulted is now being extended to issues of conventional arms exports, security and disarmament, a subject highlighted by the OSCE as being a problem where Ukraine is concerned.
I wish to say to Mr Brok, who expressed concern at this, that the issue of more tangible cooperation with Ukraine, under the CFSP for example, will be addressed in the report to be presented at Nice on the arrangements that will enable our partners to contribute to military crisis management led by the European Union.
Moreover, Ukraine is making a special effort with regard to this issue as, since 1 July, it has acted on 15 declarations made by the presidency on behalf of the European Union.
During this period we have also kept the United States fully informed of developments in European security and defence policy, which is essential if this policy is to develop harmoniously, as is the case at the moment.
Dialogue under this presidency has not yet finished as a summit is scheduled to take place in Washington on 18 December and in Ottawa the following day.
We encountered a problem with the Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Marseilles, as many of our Arab partners found it difficult to take part in the meeting in the current climate.
To this figure we can add the loans that the EIB has planned to set aside, making a total of around EUR 13 billion.
With regard to the Middle East, the Presidency remains in constant contact with all the key players, even through the most difficult times.
We managed to ensure, for the first time, that Javier Solana was allowed to participate in the Sharm El-Sheikh Summit, held on 17 October.
We spoke on behalf of the Fifteen in Marseilles, though this was not the main purpose of the Marseilles meeting, which was to save the framework of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation.
On 20 November, the European Union once again expressed its views on the situation in the Middle East, in harsher terms which the deteriorating situation on the ground called for.
Moreover, Javier Solana is a member of the fact-finding committee that is meeting in New York on Sunday, which we hope will set to work very quickly.
Our dialogue with Africa has been very active at all levels, at ministerial level too, particularly with CDAO, but also with SADC.
Dialogue with Latin America has continued both in New York, on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, and on more specific points, such as the support provided by the European Union for the peace process initiated by President Pastrana of Columbia, and for his social, economic and institutional programmes.
I would not want to conclude this summary without mentioning the Union' s action on what are today known as the great global or cross-sectoral dossiers, particularly in the field of human rights, where work is still necessary to improve the coherence of European policy in international bodies and to involve civil society more closely.
The Presidency has also drafted the second annual report on the implementation of the European code of conduct on arms exports, which has led to real progress and is due to be adopted by the General Affairs Council on 4 December.
As you see - and I have simplified this presentation considerably - European Union activity in these fields is developing apace and all of our partners throughout the world attach a great deal of importance to this fact.
I shall finish with a few words to the effect that the Council shares the concerns expressed by Mr Brok about Afghanistan.
The Commission would certainly have something to say about these matters if we had the time, but to put it simply, all the efforts that we are actively making, because it truly is a long-suffering country, will never be effective unless all of the neighbouring countries, or the countries that are involved in some way or another and have some influence in Afghanistan, decide once and for all to stop intervening and interfering.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I speak to you today, I am aware of taking part in a key turning point in the life of Europe, because this is, I think, the first time that a Minister of Defence has addressed your Parliament.
On 24 October, I reviewed the progress of a European defence system with your Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights and Common Security and Defence Policy.
I am delighted to continue in this vein by talking to you today about the results of our conference on military commitments of 20 November.
I wish, first of all, to express my agreement with the wording of your resolution of 21 November on the European security and defence policy.
The Presidency and, I believe, all our governments share this view.
Our aim is to gain the capability, by 2003, of coordinating our armies to fulfil the Petersberg tasks, should the Council decide to launch a military operation on behalf of the Union.
In the vital area of military capability, at Helsinki, our States set themselves the overall target of being in a position, by 2003, to deploy within 60 days and to sustain for at least one year, forces of up to the size of an army corps, in other words, 60 000 soldiers.
These forces should be self-sufficient in military terms and should have the necessary capabilities for command, control, intelligence, and for other support units, as well as air and naval backup.
The Fifteen have successfully achieved the difficult task of making these objectives a reality in military and technical terms.
I wish to emphasise the quality of the completely new work that has been carried out by our States' military experts, under the auspices of the interim military body, which was only created in March.
These contributions therefore enable us, in terms of quantity, to fully meet the overall target set by the Council.
These numbers relate to a mechanism that is designed to be maintained for a European Union operation for at least one year, which means that each country will have, in line with the contribution that it has stated, a reserve force that will enable it to provide the necessary relief forces.
We also reached agreement on continuing work to improve the quality of these forces.
We must improve our strategic capabilities, especially strategic mobility, in order to rapidly move forces into the field.
In particular, we have identified research and combat rescue, defence instruments against ground-to-ground missiles, high-precision weapons and logistical support.
These incorporate most of the suggestions made in your resolution of 21 November.
I should like to make another comment on this overall project to improve European capabilities.
The action that we have set in motion has given Europeans the opportunity to shoulder their responsibilities, to look towards the future, potentially to use their forces to promote democratic political aims and to adopt resolutions on subjects that have remained unresolved for many years.
A new dynamic has therefore been launched on the basis of an action demonstrating political will on the part of our Member States.
As you see, Europeans are bent on undertaking a sustained effort in order to give credibility to a European defence system.
Our fifteen nations have set themselves the target of making this Force operational, I repeat, by 2003.
In 2001, and this task will fall to our friends in the Swedish Presidency, the system will have to be made operational, especially the European Union' s defence staff.
By 2003, when the bodies that have been established are in a position to fulfil their duties, the European Union will gradually become capable of accomplishing some of the Petersberg tasks.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take a few words to describe the profound political significance, which has been approved by the majority of public opinion in our countries, of this new task that will provide Europe with a tool for political influence that it has, until now, lacked.
For this I wish to thank my fellow Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Ministers for Defence, who have enabled this substantial progress to be made and I must, of course, thank the European Parliament for the interest it has shown in this new major project.
Mr President, as we discuss defence and security policy and conflict resolution, we should never forget the very basic reason why the European Union exists: It is the best example in the history of the world of conflict resolution.
Yet those same people in those same countries created European Union in that same century, and the principles that go to the heart of European Union, when applied anywhere in the world, will bring peace.
When we speak about conflict resolution why, instead of sending soldiers, do you not send this philosophy and why do you not consider setting up in the European Commission a section on peace and reconciliation and a Commissioner for peace and reconciliation, given the massive and fundamental experience of European Union and conflict resolution? (Applause from the left) Perhaps I can begin by commenting on what my honourable friend Mr Hume has just said.
Of course, he is right in what he says about the contribution which the European Union has made to conflict resolution.
As we know, we have actually witnessed a good deal of history since 1989, but one point on which he was absolutely correct was that we saw in 1989 the end of a particularly shaming, and all too long, period in European history.
It would not be sensible to try and address tonight all the points raised in those reports and resolutions, nor is now the moment to try and circumnavigate the globe in a discussion of our foreign policy.
There is plenty of evidence, as I have said, that if we do not do more for ourselves, it will have very damaging consequences for our relationship with the United States.
In the recent history of Bosnia, we saw a situation in which some of our soldiers were very often put in intolerable positions, not just militarily but morally as well.
We have come a long way since the decision in Maastricht in 1991 to take the step from political cooperation towards a common foreign policy.
Experience over the past few years has made clear that European Union external action is more than just a juxtaposition of declaratory politics and technical cooperation.
Our challenge is to ensure that the world' s largest trading group and provider of development aid also makes its presence felt politically.
We have a real contribution to make and we must not be afraid of doing it.
For the Community, this means reforming our external assistance, improving our internal procedures and creating a framework within which we can mobilise the whole range of Community instruments in support of our agreed external objectives.
Mr Védrine pointed out in his remarks the priority which we have given to reforming our external actions and to delivering our programmes more effectively and more wisely.
Dwelling for a moment on the Western Balkans, I find it difficult to accept that we need a common strategy on the Western Balkans, we actually have a rather good strategy on the Western Balkans.
The challenge for us now is sticking to that strategy, ensuring we can make that strategy work, ensuring that, in holding out the prospect of a closer relationship with the European family, we can help those countries make the economic and political changes and reforms required in order to secure their stability and long-term prosperity.
The Commission intends to follow up on this joint report with a communication next spring on the integration of conflict prevention across the board in the programming of our external assistance programmes.
On crisis management, the Commission adopted on 27 September a draft decision on the establishment of a Community mechanism for coordination of civil protection interventions in emergency situations.
The draft regulation establishing a rapid reaction facility, which should be adopted by the end of the year, will allow the Commission under one budget line and one legal base to carry out a number of actions simultaneously so as to respond quickly to a crisis with a wide range of instruments.
The Commission is not involved with the creation of the rapid reaction force.
Again, I refer to the sometimes not entirely balanced and objective media in my own country, who seem to have some difficulty in comprehending that distinction.
Even with our laborious procedures in the Commission, we do not need a force of 60,000 soldiers to accomplish our objectives.
The European Union through its common position on Afghanistan of 14 January earlier this year is committed among other things to the objective of bringing about a sustainable peace in Afghanistan.
The European Union also encouraged other peace efforts, including those of the six plus two group, the initiatives of the former king and the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, in their efforts to intercede to bring about peace in Afghanistan.
At the same time, the European Union continues to urge countries concerned to stop the involvement of their military, paramilitary and secret service personnel in Afghanistan and cease provision of all other military support to parties in the Afghan conflict.
So far this year, these commitments and those in preparation have totalled more than EUR 14 million.
The temperature in the region just now is between minus 3 and minus 6 degrees and the only provisions these families have received over the past month is one sack of wheat.
On behalf of the entire PSE Group, I would like to express my admiration for the outstanding report by Catherine Lalumière, our highly esteemed fellow Member.
As you will all be aware, there is to be a new approach to the common foreign and security policy; in which the civilian component will be deemed to be at least as important as the military component.
The Member States have made promises that do justice to previously articulated ambitions.
We do not rule out the possibility of increasing defence expenditure, but that will have to be assessed on its own merits, also in line with other priorities, for example in the social and economic field.
We also back Mrs Lalumière' s report in the main.
It therefore seems a little unnecessary to regulate in great detail how, for example, European forces in space are to be organised.
The first section I am referring to is the one on conflict prevention and crisis management.
It is still completely unclear in the current proposals as to what that role should be.
As I see it, the European Parliament should be directly involved in drawing up the much-needed strategic concept in the future, and also, if it comes to it, in the decision on whether to deploy the European peacekeeping force.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, another member of my group, Mr Modrow, will be speaking on defence matters.
I have just returned from a visit to Israel and Palestine last week, where I led a delegation from my group.
What we saw in the hospital in Gaza, for instance, was truly horrific.
It gives some idea of the terrible toll of these two months of intifada: 270 dead, most of them Palestinian, and nearly 10 000 wounded, many of them crippled for life.
If it does so along the lines I have described, Europe will not only live up to the expectations of the Palestinian people but will also underpin the current of opinion within Israel in favour of a just peace and give itself a worthy and respectable image in the world.
Hence our enthusiastic support for Amendment No 1 of the Brok report.
The one-sided apportionment of blame which we have been hearing in this House, the condemnations of one side or the other in this conflict and the discrepancies in the voting patterns of the EU Member States at the United Nations on 21 October of this year - which one of the rapporteurs quite rightly criticised, by the way - have further reduced the Union's chances of assuming a productive and responsible role in the Middle East.
Both a viable Palestinian state and Israel's legitimate security requirements must be recognised by all members of the Union, otherwise we shall never adopt a common position on the peace efforts, and Europe will lose every ounce of credibility as a mediator alongside the United States.
If we as Europeans cannot play a responsible role in the resolution of this conflict, independently of the United States, we must assume that we shall not be trusted to act as a mediator in any other regional conflicts either.
Mr President, it is essential that we recognise that in recent months there has been considerable progress in the field of the common foreign and security policy, and that the credit for much of it must be given to the High Representative.
I would like to highlight very clearly the progress made by the French Presidency in the field of common foreign and security policy and in the field of defence policy, and I wish to say this particularly because, in the previous debate on the European Council in Nice, certain reservations were expressed on the progress made in general during this presidency.
Nevertheless, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that we should not be deceived, because the French Presidency will fundamentally be judged, not on the achievements with regard to common foreign and security policy, nor with regard to defence policy, but on the results of the European Council in Nice, which are truly essential to the promotion of our project.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to us, action undertaken by the Commission and the interinstitutional balance are fundamental.
Secondly, despite what the previous speaker said, I do not know whether it would be possible or desirable for the European Union to do any more than it is currently doing in relation to the conflict and escalation of violence which has taken place in the Middle East, especially now, when the United States is going through a transitional period.
I imagine that the 43rd President of the United States will soon be named, but I think that this would be a good time for the European Union to double its efforts and assert its presence in a conflict which is so close by.
I believe that this really is a discriminatory condition, which should now be adapted in light of the new circumstances.
Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have two very important reports to deal with today and an important question relating to the dreadful intolerable situation in Afghanistan.
It will not always be possible to take these steps one after the other in chronological order, but we need the entire package, and the fact is that only all of these factors together will make a coherent, balanced defence and security policy in Europe.
The report, however, also brings a democratic framework into play, and I should like to lay particular emphasis on that here.
Defence policy, the question of defence spending, is a national matter and must be determined and overseen by the national parliaments.
There is, however, a European level of security policy, and the European Parliament acts as a budgetary authority for security expenditure at that level.
We need cooperation between the national and European levels, and we also need democratic supervision.
The decision taken at the Helsinki summit to establish a rapid reaction force has been interpreted in different ways by the Member States.
In Finland and Sweden they speak about crisis management, which in these countries chiefly means a traditional peacekeeping operation.
Now that the development of the EU' s military dimension has begun, it is wise to aim for a situation where the Union should be internally differentiated in this area also.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has yet to substantiate adequately its claim to exercise responsibility for peace and above all for lasting stability in the world.
It is absurd to detach European foreign policy from the institutions responsible for most of the instruments that are essential to its pursuit.
If we perceive European foreign policy as nothing more than a support instrument for European arms-manufacturing consortia, we have completely misunderstood its function.
This means that curbing arms exports to unstable regions must be the first aim for the Council to pursue, that trade policies must be fair, that assistance must be given to encourage the sustainable development of countries in volatile regions and, above all, that the democratic forces in civil society must be supported.
This, they tell us, will enable operations such as the criminal bombing of Yugoslavia and the continuing occupation of Kosovo to be carried out more successfully and at the initiative of the European Union, which will back up and complement ÍÁÔÏ.
On hearing this you say: 'yes, of course that is quite right' , but this appeal would in fact suggest that the European Union and the European Member States have been far too quick to seize their weapons in the past, in different contexts.
Ideally, these two should be fused into one person.
That is an extremely important element because the European Commission has a great deal of authority over it, which means that we as a Parliament can exercise a great deal of control.
Speaking of control, of course the European Parliament must take on more and more tasks from the Western European Union and its assembly.
First of all, the war that was fought against Yugoslavia in defiance of international law and the results of that war, such as the new tensions in southern Serbia, show that military force must not become a political instrument again.
Europe could set an example here, and the creation of an intervention force is surely the wrong signal for it to send.
I have to say that there is much in the Brok report that we can support, in particular the importance attached to enlargement of the European Union.
The Union is bent on establishing an autonomous capability in pursuit of European political integration.
Under this scheme the Commission would run defence policy.
Let us not pretend that the present proposals have this in mind.
Firstly, a key factor must be to maintain the consistency of the European Union's external policy.
So we must always hold that in mind.
It is not a question of not being halfway in or halfway out, there has to be a clear commitment by all the Member States involved to making this work.
NATO of course is the arm of collective defence of Europe and the West.
The farthest it goes in that direction is a scornful reference in paragraph 5 of the explanatory statement to 'neutral' countries (in inverted commas).
The non-aligned countries must protest loudly and clearly against wordings of that kind and against the report as a whole.
Even those who speculate as to the benefits of certain decisions, such as the decision to create a so-called Euro-army, cannot fail to see the important political dimension of this decision and its effect on the cohesion of the European Union.
If it is to retain its political attraction, the CFSP needs to be determined on the basis of the Member States of the European Union, not on the basis of isolationist or exclusionist rationales, but as a strong driving force behind the cohesion of the European Union.
And, as it strengthens its democratic institutions, Europe also needs to consolidate its economic and social power and cohesion, its strategic potential to act as a force of peace and its technological edge.
It is about time Europe had its own Cape Canaveral, its own ÍÁSÁ and its own Silicon Valley.
I welcome this opportunity to say a few words on the military and indeed civilian facility particularly with the forthcoming Nice Summit.
One of the most important things that was emphasised here this evening was said by Commissioner Patten earlier on in the evening, when he emphasised that we are talking about military facility and not an EU army.
Even some of our literature that has been circulated with reports on our discussions here tonight, talks about rapid reaction forces instead of a rapid reaction facility, for example.
There is no nation in Europe that is philosophically neutral.
Ireland has never been philosophically neutral.
We have a very strong view of what we can contribute in peacekeeping and in peace-enforcing, and I hope we will always be able to contribute to that.
Thank you very much, Mrs Doyle.
Mr President, I wish, first of all, to congratulate the two authors of the reports that we are now discussing, especially my colleague, Catherine Lalumière.
In addition to the diversity of opinions, I feel that there is a prevailing awareness that Europe is at an historic moment which requires its role in the international system to be clarified.
Although we all agree that priority should be given to conflict prevention and to the devastating effects of other types of disaster, the European Union will only be taken seriously if it also provides itself with military support capabilities for humanitarian interventions.
My fear is that a rapid armed reaction force will be used more and more often instead of civil crisis management, and more and more rapidly.
There is one solution that might make the situation easier here: involving Russia in crisis management.
I am particularly pleased that the Irish Government is fully committed to this initiative and has pledged that 850 members of our defence forces will participate.
I believe that the lessons we learn in this latest development will serve us well in the future as we come to terms with the need to establish a European defence policy and capability, which in my view is as much an essential component of European integration as is the single currency.
EU policy must always be based on the partnership approach which seeks to share NATO assets, particularly planning and intelligence as well as hardware, rather than duplicate the structures of NATO, particularly when we share common objectives.
I believe this experience will serve the EU well when we come to develop our own defence policy, and I sincerely hope that that will come sooner rather than later.
I would just add a few words to the comments on Afghanistan and say that the Council is determined to provide humanitarian aid on the ground so long as operational conditions allow it.
On the question of the concept: this concept was adopted in 1992.
It will operate on the basis of national decisions taken in the framework of intergovernmental cooperation under the control of the national parliaments, in respect for the Petersberg tasks and in compliance, as we have also said in our declarations, with the principles of the United Nations Charter.
The agreement reached in Saint Malo, which was primarily an agreement between the fifteen nations, was that if they wanted Europe to have a practical, effective capacity for action in the defence field, this could only be achieved on an intergovernmental basis.
Because if we remain consistent with the decisions that have been taken, we will see a gradual rise in the European Union's level of responsibility, credibility and influence in crisis management.
There will still be other forms of rapprochement to invent with the national parliaments, but at any rate one thing that is within our reach and that represents a turning point I believe we can all welcome, is the fact that the fifteen nations which make up this Union, which have already built a political reality that has a positive effect on the international balance of power, these fifteen nations have chosen to acquire the means to act jointly in cases where violence challenges our values.
They are doing so because they believe in our common values.
Thank you very much, Minister.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resignation of the Commission in March 1999 highlighted the need to reform its structures and working methods.
The energetic reform exercise it is now undertaking must seek above all to restore public confidence.
The need for reform is beyond doubt and the Commission must become a first-class administration in the service of our political objective.
That is an essential condition for lending credibility to the construction of the European Union.
Officially, our Parliament is consulted simply with a view to delivering an opinion, but Mr Kinnock assured us that our views would be taken very seriously in the Commission's further activities, in which we will be associated.
So we decided on a method of looking at the entire issue, without any overlaps.
That method was respected and involved us in a major consultation process.
The cohesion between all the reform sectors should assure the people of Europe that the methods by which European integration is managed politically are clearly visible and truly transparent.
That is why we want to ensure that this process is not imposed from above; we consider it crucial that all the staff are effectively associated in this whole process of modernisation.
The Committee on Budget's opinion on the reform concentrates on these major aspects, in line with our powers and responsibilities.
The package of measures proposed in the White Paper must help modernise the whole way the Commission functions and make it more efficient.
The communication from the European Commission must deliver a common message to the various institutions.
That measure will take time, but it is inevitable and crucial to the reform.
Our committee was very pleased to see the conclusions of the Bourlanges report on externalisation taken up in the Letter of Amendment.
The Commission's human resources are obviously not up to the new tasks entrusted to it, in addition to those it will have to assume in the future, and the redeployment proposed in the Letter of Amendment, which only relates to 4% of staff, will not resolve the human resources problem either.
In accepting the substance of the Letter of Amendment during the budgetary consultation procedure last Thursday, the Council proved that the other arm of the budgetary authority did in fact wish to support the reform of our Commission.
We expressed our views on the reform of the fast-track procedure in the vote on the van Hulten report.
Moreover, it is totally illogical for the Council alone to be able to amend the Financial Regulation and we repeat our call for conciliation on this issue.
The reform of the Commission is crucial to the future of our institutions.
This report looks at the very first steps in the reform of the Commission, a major project aimed at the genuinely modern management of the Union.
It will be followed by many other reports and, for my part, after these weeks of working together, I hope we adhere to this method in future too.
I want to give particular thanks to the other three rapporteurs, for I really appreciated the way we worked and the clarity of their positions.
The implementation of this reform clearly reflects the difficulties we are facing, but we know that this exercise, however difficult, is a vital one.
Together, we have contributed to this first stage that is crucial for the political future of the Union; we have modernised its management to make it more transparent and therefore bring it closer to our citizens, so as to convince them more firmly that their only future lies in a stronger European Union.
Mr President, Mr Kinnock, Mrs Schreyer, ladies and gentlemen, this debate marks the climax of Parliament' s examination of the White Paper on the reform of the Commission.
We four rapporteurs have worked in a great spirit of cooperation and that means that this procedure, which is complicated in itself, will tomorrow give rise to four coordinated reports, which do not overlap each other and which provide the encouragement which we all wish to see for the task and responsibility which President Prodi has taken on.
While each report deals with the aspects which concern each committee, there is a common element amongst the four: they all express a generally favourable opinion of the proposals for reform presented by the Commission in its White Paper, although at the same time they remain vigilant with regard to their implementation and development.
We have also been unanimous in stating that many of the shortcomings and irregularities that were condemned during the discharge for 1996 were due to the fact that previous Commissions had not managed to modernise their management and control systems and had not applied all of the legislation in force.
In drawing up my report, I have been able to study not only the White Paper, but also the second report of the committee of independent experts and the resolution adopted by this Parliament on 19 January, proposed by Michiel van Hulten, on the work of the aforementioned committee of experts.
The Committee on Budgetary Control and I myself are pleased to see that, in producing the White Paper, the Commission has largely taken its inspiration from the proposals of the independent experts and has taken account of many of the observations made by Parliament on 19 January.
As the committee with responsibility for budgetary control, I highlight in the report approved by the committee the aspects of the reform concerning competence in this area.
The Directors-General will have responsibility for the internal control of their directorates-general, without in any way exempting the respective Commissioners from their own political responsibility with regard to the functioning of the services and that includes, where appropriate, the President of the Commission.
The main task of the new internal auditing service, under your direct responsibility, Mr Kinnock, Vice-President with responsibility for reform, will be to analyse the functions and systems of internal control which exist within the Commission.
This function is, as the Court of Auditors points out in its report 4/97, much broader and more general than the current function performed by ex ante overall control.
In this respect, I would like to remind you that on 5 October last our Parliament gave the green light to the amendment of Article 24(5) of the financial regulation currently in force.
In that way Parliament put an end to what the Court of Auditors had been condemning since 1981 and which it reiterated in its report 4/97: a latent conflict which exists between the power to grant an approval - and hence to authorise an item of expenditure - and the task of assessing it soon after according to criteria of good financial management.
This amendment makes sense in a transitional period until the adoption of the new financial regulation which, according to the recommendations of the committee of experts, is intended to establish a system of control, based not on ex ante centralized control, but on ex post, a posteriori, auditing.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the new system will prove to be more effective than the current one.
The Court of Auditors, in its report 4/97, repeats its position with regard to the impact of financial control, which is not evenly balanced.
I recall that I first met Vice-President Kinnock in December last year when the parliament intimated that I was to be asked to take on this task.
Certainly I echo what colleagues have said that the team of rapporteurs have worked very well together.
So we were keen to make sure that the strategic framework was in place and that it was the right one.
We held a very successful public hearing on the reforms where we brought in people from private and public industry to give us the environment, the organisational and human resource changes that are going on around us, in which the Commission is going to have to move forward with these reforms.
Indeed it is going to have to recruit the best people in a very competitive market.
What was very interesting from those discussions was to see how employment and organisation practices in private and public sector are actually moving closer together.
Big organisations everywhere now are becoming more open; they are becoming more transparent; they are using information technology in new ways; they are moving away from traditional vertical forms of organisation, sharing information across organisations and between each other.
In the short time this evening I do not have time to go through all our specific recommendations in detail, so I want to centre on what I think is the key element of how these reforms must move forward.
We must develop an organisation within the Commission that is going to centre around giving every official clear objectives, giving them the right resources to deliver those objectives.
They may expect to move to other European institutions, to be seconded to national governments, or to work in the private sector.
That should become the norm, part of a standard career in the European Commission.
He has led this process very enthusiastically, but it has to be led from the very top.
He assured us that he also gave these reforms his full backing.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite its scope the contents of the White Paper presented by Mr Kinnock do not directly raise any institutional topics.
Indeed, in a Europe which will have 30 Member States tomorrow, with a bloated Council and a 700-member, 20-language Parliament, the Commission will have a more important role than ever to play in defining and upholding the common European interest.
Accordingly, our committee repeats its attachment to a strong, independent, effective, transparent and politically answerable Commission.
To guarantee that it has these qualities, we insist on five points.
It must also underpin its function of proposing legislation, for instance by devising an internal procedure which will ensure that the subsidiarity principle is respected and by keeping a chronological record of procedures in order to reduce excessive delays in the preparation of documents.
Where it does not do so, the results are felt, as we have seen, especially in the second and third pillars.
So we call on the Member States to give the Commission the main role in the preparation for and follow-up to meetings of the European Council and of the Council of Ministers in all its forms, which can be done without formally modifying the institutions.
Regarding these agencies, the three institutions should take the deliberations on governance as an opportunity to establish a common doctrine on what is called externalisation.
The establishment of independent agencies is justified whenever a scientific or technical opinion is required or decentralised management seems better.
We discussed that during this afternoon's debate on the common foreign policy.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs calls for an overall study into the problem of the Union's external representation both in dealing with third countries in international negotiations and in international bodies, and to consider the establishment of a common diplomatic service.
As the Committee on Budgets we consider that the establishment of the budget by activities causes us problems because of the lack of visibility of expenditure and our desire to strengthen the powers of the European Parliament as a budgetary authority.
Our fears are not greatly allayed by the fact that, when the establishment of the budget by activities is over, category 5 of the financial perspectives will disappear.
We are not speaking against these consequences, but in favour of safeguarding the budgetary powers of this Parliament.
Therefore, any tendency of the Commission reform to covertly remove from Parliament this ability to control administrative expenditure would create interinstitutional problems in the short term.
However, an approach that safeguards Parliament' s powers of control and decision-making with regard to expenditure in the current category 5 will guarantee that the Commission reform will be negotiated with no further problems.
With regard to the TAOs and the transitional period for their dismantling, my Group insists that the Commission should make the greatest possible effort to limit that transitional period.
We are awaiting a three-way dialogue to define this question, amongst others, before the final approval of the 2001 budget.
My group does not reject the idea of this proposal on early retirement being obligatory.
Mr President, today is an important day for Commission reform.
It is also an important day for Commission reform because the Commission today adopted a number of proposals which I believe will be the key to restoring the confidence of the people of Europe in our institutions.
Second, the Commission proposes to overhaul the disciplinary procedure.
The Commission has now decided to accept the recommendations by the Committee of Independent Experts that the disciplinary board should be headed by an independent chair.
This is also in line with the proposals made by the independent experts, and one which was strongly endorsed by Parliament in its resolution of 19 January of this year.
The report by Mr Pomés Ruiz sets out Parliament' s position on this issue in greater detail.
The de-centralisation of financial control to DGs is an important step but it will only work if staff are properly trained, if sufficient resources are available, and if the responsibility of line managers is properly enforced.
In this context two aspects of the process are of particular concern to us.
The main objective of the reform of the Commission must be a reduction in bureaucracy, increased efficiency and an end to financial confusion.
The reform will require activity-based budgeting.
Administrative reform is particularly necessary to improve financial transactions in the European Union.
The current three-month term is too long, let alone the fact that many payments are delayed for more than a year.
My group firmly supports administrative reform.
Mr President, my group, the Greens/European Free Alliance, also support the reform of the Commission as set out in the White Paper, and we urge its speedy implementation.
Time and again in today's debate on Nice, we heard that the EU is facing enormous challenges and that the enlargement of the EU to an eventual total of 27 or more Member States will test the resilience of the European institutions.
The implementation of the budget is another area in which the Commission - and Parliament too, for that matter - must consider in future what to do about the problem of backlogs, how to ensure that we start to address the question of budgetary commitments in the implementation of new programmes too, so that we do not always have this huge discrepancy between commitments and payments.
We take note of the fact that the Commission has endeavoured to introduce progressively a new budgetary nomenclature, but we would like to know when this process will be completed.
Commissioner Kinnock is trying, by changing and improving the rules, to give the Commission officials an enhanced sense of responsibility.
The proposed advisory service for financial irregularities will not only undermine OLAF' s openness, but also its work.
It is therefore astounding that the rapporteurs Mrs Guy-Quint and Mr Pomés Ruiz completely pass over this and merely regard the reform process as a means of achieving European political integration.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the plan to reform the Commission, we are progressing towards the new European institutions: new in that changes were made to the old institutions following the problems which arose during past management and on the basis of the lengthy, exhaustive and in many places complex report of the independent experts.
The entire structure of the Commission, which is a fundamental institutional body of the Union's current system, implements European Union policy as willed by Parliament and the Council.
Like Mr Van Hulten I commend the way he worked with other people and was prepared to take on ideas and submissions from other political groups.
I would like to pick up on the some 26 amendments which have been made to the Harbour report.
As you would expect we are supporting Amendments Nos 1 to 6, submitted by the PSE.
We shall however be withdrawing Amendment No 6 and asking for a split vote on the latter part of Amendment No 15 as we do not believe the current system within the ECB lends itself to this situation.
We are supporting Amendments Nos 13, 14, 16 and 9 submitted by the PPE.
I would like to say something quickly about change.
I recall what he said about the long gestation period of this work and I would encourage the Commission not to feel that the timetable is an indefinite one.
When I was previously in this Parliament, the President of the Commission was Jacques Delors and he worked alongside Commissioner Brittan and before him Commissioner Cockfield.
There was a sense of great self-confidence and harmony between the institutions.
I would simply say to Commissioner Kinnock, and I am sure he needs no encouragement in this, that it is not just a question of management or technical detail, it is a question of personnel and belief in what you are doing and belief that the Parliament will work alongside the Commission.
That goal is enlargement and it is extremely difficult to achieve but we look to the Commission to be the driving force and we want to work alongside it.
We must bear in mind that the Community administration is based on certain principles, which are well established in continental administration, such as the principle of a job for life and stable employment.
These principles were established after a previous period in which public appointments resulted from the distribution of influences, from the system of cherry picking and string pulling.
In light of this, the system of stable public administration offered a guarantee that political changes would not affect the functioning of the administration.
Therefore, while recognising that it is necessary to modernise the administration, our concern is to guarantee those fundamental principles of Community administration, which is currently occupied by extremely competent officials, who, often at great personal sacrifice, have to move home in order to set up in Brussels and who receive remuneration which is appropriate to the efforts that this entails.
We believe that we will have the opportunity to express our opinions on them and that throughout this time we will be able to help the Commission in developing the Community civil service.
This is not enough, however, to improve the implementation of actions and of available appropriations.
The first two institutions are responsible for defining policies and priorities and making financial resources available.
With regard to this last aspect, the executive role of the Commission must be strengthened, above all, by a reform of commitology.
Let us be clear on this matter: if, under the terms of Article 274 of the Treaty, the Commission alone is responsible for implementing the budget, then some interventions by Member States through management and regulatory committees, which have basically been put forward to express national interests, must be seen as hampering the Commission's ability to manage efficiently.
Mr President, the resignation of the Commission in the spring of 1999 was in fact the dénouement of a much more deep-seated problem within the European Commission, namely vague working structures that resulted in a lack of political accountability, fragmented policy priorities and unsatisfactory results.
Commissioner Kinnock' s White Paper offers a solution to these problems but also goes much further in that the reform proposals are founded on the basic principles of a modern European public service.
Situations of this kind have severely eroded the confidence of the citizens and organisations concerned.
At the same time, the package of reform proposals could break through this culture of fear, restoring the officials' faith in themselves as an organisation, because there are a lot of good people there.
It is essential to quickly win back the credibility of the European public service in the eyes of the public.
The public must also be able to feel that the Commission is truly accessible and transparent.
The White Paper on European governance that came out recently, contains a whole host of worthwhile initiatives to this end, but there is still a great deal to be done in other areas.
Let us open a new book on a modern European public service that fulfils its constitutional role in the proper manner, is ready for the forthcoming enlargement and lastly, which embraces service provision for the European public as its new mission statement.
The basic consensus with which they have worked is something to be greatly welcomed and is very encouraging.
This is a necessary reform because at the root of it was a real political crisis, not just the normal self-criticism which occurs in the course of an administration that has been in action for several decades.
However, what we are dealing with here is not a political reform with administrative consequences but an administrative reform with political consequences.
We are therefore dealing with one of those challenges that are occasionally faced by politicians who must find the best way to safeguard the governability of institutions, as well as the best way to provide the citizens with a good administration.
The success of the reform will be a success for all of us and we all have a great deal at stake here.
This dialogue must open up the basic legislative framework of Community finances to the codecision procedure.
This dialogue must allow the establishment of common mechanisms in human resources policies.
For the European Parliament, foreign affairs is a vital and interesting matter, and I completely agree that, having had a lifetime's interest myself in these issues, that is a proper explanation.
For the European Parliament, reform is a vital matter on which it has decisive effect as a budgetary authority and as a legislature.
Mr President, I am very grateful to you for the opportunity of this debate to respond to the excellent work of Parliament's four rapporteurs, the four musketeers, on the Commission's Reform White Paper.
It is also appropriate for me to provide an up-to-date picture of the latest progress with the implementation of our strategy for applying modernising changes and for preparing the further improvements, which we outlined in our strategy eight months ago.
It adopted a preliminary strategy for decentralisation and simplification of decision-making procedures - something which eventually will lead to substantial increases in Commission productivity and reducing those strata of bureaucracy that everybody rightly talks about.
All these proposals are focused on enabling the Commission and the other European institutions, including Parliament, to improve the professionalism, the consistency and the reasonable speed of disciplinary procedures and to do so without loss of fairness or rights of the accused.
The document on whistle-blowing proposes a system that compares well with the best existing practices in Member States.
In addition in the right to report to OLAF and to the hierarchy of his or her own institution, an official will also be entitled to report suspicions and evidence to the Presidents of the Council or this Parliament or the Commission or the Court of Auditors or the Ombudsman.
In these documents we have again sought to take examples from best practices in Member States.
With more time, naturally, I would be very happy to address the matters raised, and I am sure that there will be other opportunities.
I think Mr Van Hulten made the point in the course of the debate again.
First, the Committee of Independent Experts stipulated, in my view rightly, that any such body should be an internal one, not least because the Treaties attribute very specific roles to the other two institutions in controlling the financial implications and the legality of the Commission's disciplinary decisions.
In addition, such changes would obviously only be possible with amendment to the Treaties.
I hope that the House will agree that these reasons are sound, as the document on discipline this morning shows.
I would like to extend my thanks to Mr Lamassoure for his constructive insights and his constructive remarks on the constitutional context in which the current reform is being pursued.
Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President.
I am sure that Parliament will give you the opportunity to go into greater depth on another occasion, since this reform is not going to end with the first vote tomorrow.
The main focal point of the reform is the effort to improve financial management.
Mrs Guy-Quint, in your report you referred to many points in the new version of the Financial Regulation, but you also expressed concern that activity-based budgeting might deprive Parliament of information.
Administrative reform is intended to improve the work of the Commission.
It also has to be accepted by the other institutions, and in particular it needs the support of the elected representatives of the people.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
I wish firstly to thank Commissioner Nielson for being here and for putting his commitment to this Parliament before certain other important engagements.
It is an initiative report, because the Commission has not seen fit to consult us in any other more official way, despite the fact that it has done so with regard to other aspects of the reform.
At least as important as those which we have just debated is the issue of the RELEX reform, which is the one that will offer the world an idea of the scope of the changes in the Commission.
On the basis of the Commission' s own diagnosis of the ineffectiveness of Community development policy, this report reaches different conclusions on how to remedy it.
These are the basic principles that we share with the Commission.
The Commission maintains a division - albeit a somewhat blurred one - between political responsibility and executive competence, which past experience leads us to believe, will not work very well in practice.
Reason and experience lead us in a different direction.
The assessment criteria will be the progress made in the eradication of poverty, in the complementarity of Member States' policies, in the degree of coherence between Community policies, in the efficiency of project management, decision making and the simplification of procedures.
The importance of the large multilateral organisations does not cancel out that of the small NGOs, and I am not going to expand on the role they play in development at local level because we are all aware of it, especially those populations that benefit from their action.
We wish Commissioner Nielson the greatest success.
We demand from Commissioner Kinnock, who has just left, the greatest transparency in the management of the reform and the necessary efforts in the field of human resources.
We remind the Member States that there is no place in European construction for temptations to renationalise; on the contrary, it is time to defend the European dimension of this policy by contributing to its rationalisation.
Complementarity is one of the key elements for the success of the Community development policy and there should not be theological debate like the one in which subsidiarity has become bogged down. (The President urged the speaker to bring her speech to a close) Mr President, I will conclude by saying that we are going to approve two amendments and another three will not be approved, as has been discussed in committee.
One of the great merits of this report is that it highlights the crucial need for the European Union and its Member States to conduct a large-scale development policy, which alone can reflect the culture and influence of our continent.
It is that some Member States pursue their own development policies alongside the European policy.
In any case, that is in line with the declaration on regional policy of 10 November, an important Council and Commission policy.
Nevertheless, the reform of the European Commission is moving in the right direction in proposing both more effective action by the Commission and giving more responsibility to the beneficiaries of the development projects.
Europe is a super power in economic terms and so it is absolutely right that we should be having this discussion subsequent to the debate on the White Paper.
The Commissioner has also referred to this in his texts: a huge backlog, lack of objectives, a culture of fear in the departments dealing with payments, and at the same time, far too low a level of project proposals, a great deal of time wasted and little in the way of efficient spending.
Parliament foresaw all this in terms of its role in the draft budget for 2001.
Let us build trust between our Parliament, the departments and the Commissioner so that Europe can deliver a different kind of message in a world of poverty.
Feyenoord was known as the football club of 'deeds, not words' .
The reformed Commission must establish a project, before dispensing aid, to investigate the causes which have created or contributed to creating a state of discomfort among the poor peoples.
Mr President, I have today returned from Mozambique where the European Union has been responsible for brilliant humanitarian assistance following the flood disaster, but, once again reconstruction projects, where we have already allocated the money, are delayed while signatures in Brussels are awaited.
We want a single development directorate covering policy and implementation, covering trade and aid, covering Asia, Africa and Latin America, when the Commission still proposes to peel off these other policy areas, still proposes a hybrid with programming undertaken separately.
The reform communication of 16 May does not once mention the word "poverty" nor does the General Affairs Council Resolution of 9 October.
Mr President, the latest annual report by the World Bank highlighted certain figures which were both scandalous in their bleakness and a challenge to the developed world.
This report told us how, in fact, poverty and under-development continue to gain ground and that a huge number of people are still unable to exercise their inalienable right to live in dignity.
Let us hope that the Commission and the Council are receptive to these proposals and that together we can make speedier progress towards the ultimate eradication of poverty, thereby contributing to the creation of a fairer world.
In this report we advocate the idea that the policy of cooperation for a fairer, more balanced and stable world is not some sort of secondary issue, but that it should be a real priority in European Union policy and that, furthermore, the efforts which we make in pursuit of this objective must be considered to be a substantial part of our project.
For example, they propose an institutional structure in which the body responsible for formulating cooperation policy and the body responsible for implementing that policy are not one and the same.
What seems to us even more serious in the Commission' s proposal is the territorial separation, which is maintained.
It agreed today in the creation of the new office responsible for European cooperation from the identification of activities to implementation.
As regards country programmes, the Commission has adopted a standard framework for country strategy papers.
We now have a harmonised scheme to draft country strategy papers and indicative cooperation programmes in all developing countries.
This will put the country concerned at the centre of the process, and it will also provide a basis for close coordination with Member States and other donors involved in that country.
The clear focus of our action on fighting poverty as part of our overhaul of the policy framework and concentration on a limited number of sectors will be key elements in improving the impact of our cooperation.
Within the Commission, the inter-service quality support group has started work under the chairmanship of the Development DG.
Last but not least, I shall with my colleagues, the external relations Commissioners, very soon submit to the college legislative proposals to modify the rules relating to the legal basis for all external relations instruments and budget lines.
The office will be responsible for the management of all steps of the project cycle.
As from the beginning of next year, 250 officials will be transferred from the Development DG and the External Relations DG to the office and gradually contractual agents will also join the staff of the office while, in parallel, the technical assistance offices will be dismantled.
The creation of SEM in 1998 was a first step towards improving the speed of delivery of 8 programmes.
Even if that reform were clearly insufficient, and this is beyond any discussion today, it did in fact lay the basis for a number of the changes which we are now pushing forward.
So simplifications are very necessary.
Moreover the creation of SEM provided no solution to the continuing mismatch between 8 voluminous administrative resources.
It favours not just the reunification of the project cycle but of the whole cooperation cycle, including programming which now remains with the DG Development and DG Relex.
On this point, I can only say that the reform is a dynamic process.
The quality support group will enable a more deliberate and better-managed handover from the programming part of the total activity to the office.
We will have to assess how this new system works and, if necessary, we will take steps to pursue reforms further and deeper.
Thank you very much indeed for your contribution, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
