Mr President, Mr Tajani, ladies and gentlemen, today, with the ratification of the Erika III package, we are bringing to a close an undertaking that began more than three years ago.
The aim of the Erika III package is to protect our seas and, as you are all well aware, its roots lie in the terrible oil slicks from the Erika and the Prestige, which caused severe damage to the coasts of southern Europe.
Mr President, the European Commission published its proposals on the Erika III package on 23 November 2005, and I hope you will allow me to pay tribute at this point to the Commissioner responsible for transport at the time, Jacques Barrot, because, with this new package, he has worked very ambitiously to improve maritime safety in Europe.
Our ambition was to create an area of responsibility within which each party involved in maritime transport must take its fair share of the responsibility for its choices and actions and, where appropriate, for its errors and mistakes.
We reached agreement with the Council on this point in conciliation, so the conciliation meeting on 8 December was very positive.
Things still went wrong in places in terms of the practical application of these rules, and the Commission responded to the questions that were asked in the European Parliament at the time with seven proposals by Commissioner Barrot.
We should be satisfied for a variety of reasons, which are those that concern the Union as a whole, because it is clear that allowing the European Union to create for itself regional regulatory areas where international standards already exist to govern them, and to come between the Member States and international organisations in defining rules, is something that must only be done when necessary.
This ensures that the whole sector and the whole framework of maritime safety have today taken a step forward.
To sum up, we have, also from this point of view, enabled all citizens to feel a little more European, since the same cover will apply in any sea, in any location, for any ship.
This is perfectly justified given that it is also one of the busiest in the world and, in geographical terms, one of the most complicated in the world.
I would like to thank Mr Tajani and the Commission.
For Parliament, the Erika III package was always a package and never a collection of cobbled together measures.
We have now reached agreement on how these two proposals also can be included in the final text of the Erika III package.
Thanks to Parliament and its perseverance, to the Slovene and, especially, the French Presidencies - whom I thank - and, finally, to the common will of us all, we can now conclude this third maritime safety package.
In parallel with the common position, Member States will confirm in a joint declaration their commitment to ratify the main international conventions on maritime safety before 1 January 2012, apply the IMO Flag State Code and the related audit scheme for maritime authorities, and encourage the IMO to make these two instruments mandatory worldwide.
Now I would like to address not only all my fellow members in this Chamber, who are about to put the final seal on our work to introduce a new maritime package, but also all the European Union citizens that you represent.
A consolidated framework for European accreditation of classification companies will also allow us more effective control of our shipping.
So I believe that this is our common goal.
Only by standing together did we manage to get the Council to take on these two dossiers, and we succeeded.
The first is that we should thank Dominique Bussereau who, as a French minister, in the end pushed the package over the final hurdles, enabling it to succeed.
Europe has to go further in this field and I am sure that our work is not going to end here, because we have always been leaders and also because maritime traffic is not going to stop growing.
The result that we have achieved is a great success for the environment and for European shipping.
In recent years it has largely been the EU that has set the standard for the impact of shipping on the environment through legislation and through the work of the International Maritime Organisation.
Shipping is a global activity and, for the sake of fair competition and for the sake of the environment, it is important to have common rules at a global level.
Now, ship surveys affect large ships in particular, and I would like to highlight a problem with small ships.
There must be no repeats of the shipping accidents involving the Erika and the Prestige.
Port State control means that ships that call at EU ports can be better monitored and - this is something we think is important - these ships can face sanctions where they fail to satisfy the safety provisions.
With this port package, we have taken a mighty step forwards, knowing that these rules can and must be improved still further in future.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, repeated accidents and an increase in the transport of dangerous goods by sea constantly raise acute issues regarding strengthening the safety rules governing all maritime straits in the European Union and the resources needed in order to enforce these rules.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, last September, I drew attention to how the electronic data of ships required in these reports could easily find their way to pirates operating off Somalia.
As an MEP for the North-West region, with its numerous shorelines, I am relieved and proud to be voting in favour of this third maritime package. (EL) Mr President, the package of seven proposals on shipping is an important development in preventing accidents and in safeguarding an effective response in the event of an accident.
If the European Union creates a legal instrument that, as I hope, will make it possible to prevent disasters such as the shipwrecks of the Erika or the Prestige and finally to make the polluters take responsibility, it will be thanks to the European Parliament's perseverance in the face of the Council's timidity.
Thanks to this 'maritime safety' package, the Member States will finally have to fulfil their obligations in the International Maritime Organisation and, in particular, carry out technical audits before issuing a flag to a ship.
Thus, they have managed, through this long, drawn-out procedure, either to remove the teeth of every positive provision designed to control safety rules for ships or to postpone them indefinitely.
I actually believe that the goals for category A ships to come into line by 2016 and the even later deadline set for category B, C and D ships are too lenient and give the carriers too much leeway.
The fact that independent accident investigation has now been made compulsory in case of major maritime accidents is progress, as this will make it possible to really get to the bottom of the cause.
The adoption of this package is a victory for the European Parliament and certainly for the rapporteurs who have fought to ensure that we delivered on behalf of our citizens, even against very strong opposition from Member State governments.
This maritime package helps increase maritime transport safety and puts into practice the lessons learnt from the sea accidents which have taken place in recent years involving the ships Erika and Prestige, along with accidents in the Black Sea.
When the Prestige disaster occurred, I was co-rapporteur, along with Mr Sterckx, as we were jointly responsible for the topic of transport - I myself was responsible for the environment - and we quite justifiably called for greater safety in maritime transport.
We have come a long way since Sea Empress, Exxon Valdez and other shipping disasters.
This package is a victory for this Parliament, for Members from all the political groups, particularly on the Committee on Transport, although I hope Members would allow me to make special mention at this time of Mrs Miguélez Ramos and the late Mr Willi Piecyk.
Now then, I welcome the consensus, and am also proud of what we have achieved, but I do think, Commissioner - as both you and Mrs Vlasto have already said - that everything now depends on the quality of the implementation.
The aim is to have high-quality authorities - for the accommodation of ships in distress, for example - in all Member States.
Until now, the important matter of the maritime transport safety has not been sufficiently addressed in the same way as inland transport.
