rapporteur. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on sustainable European transport policy has now reached the stage of debate in plenary.
An own initiative report cannot tackle all the questions raised by transport, energy and the environment in an exhaustive way.
The Green Group has tabled six amendments and has called for a split vote on paragraph 16.
Personally, I find Amendment 2 more coherent, especially the first part relating to transparent air transport costs and ticket pricing.
This text refers to paragraph 2 and analyses the measures that citizens need to take to improve urban and suburban mobility.
Lastly, my political group has again tabled an amendment - Amendment 1 relating to paragraph 11 - tabled in the Transport Committee, concerning the revision of the Eurovignette directive.
I consider, however, in line with what has already been proposed in the Transport Committee, that there should be a free vote on the amendments in question.
I should like to thank Members for the interest that they have shown in this report and in my work and, as I am aware that many others have asked to speak, I shall give them a chance to do so.
We have the TEN-T project and the Marco Polo programme in support of highways of the sea.
The external costs for our economy and our environment - air pollution, noise, congestion - are heavy, which also has an adverse effect on transport mobility.
Intelligent solutions such as the CESAR or Galileo programmes are progressing too slowly, and we must accelerate these.
In his introductory remarks, Mr Albertini said that this gives us a chance to outline our transport policy, bearing in mind the environment and fuel efficiency, something about which this Parliament has consistently felt very strongly and expressed its views.
However, I think there is a contradiction in the PPE-DE Group's position - one I know the PPE-DE Group has debated internally - and there is a contradiction in this report.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Madam President, around a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union are from transport.
Then the 'user pays' principle is not very appropriate.
The second problem requiring urgent attention is traffic congestion in large conurbations and the concentration of exhaust fumes in cities and intercity transport corridors.
To cope with all these problems, we need a complete analysis of the transport situation in its environmental context, plus concrete integrated action.
The fact is, however, that the volume of CO2 emissions from transport increased by 32.1% between 1990 and 2005, and the volume emitted by air transport rocketed by 90% over the same period, while emissions of the climate-killer carbon dioxide from all other areas of activity were reduced by 9.5% in accordance with the aims of the Kyoto Protocol.
At the same time, Romania supports and promotes actions aimed at making energy consumption more effective in order to take part in the reduction of the negative environmental impact of transport and supports investments in alternative energy sources.
I hereby ask the European Commission to reassess the multiannual financial frameworks for financial resources in the field of transport, as well as for the field-related research with a view to obtaining cost effective and energy-enhanced products and services.
At the same time, I recommend that the Member States support public - private partnerships and, by way of consequence, private investments in the said field and that they make full use the funds made available to create a sustainable transport sector, to improve traffic safety and the health of the environment in which we live. (RO) The European policy concerning sustainable transport, taking account of the European policies on energy and environment, concerns and directly affects approximately 490 million of European citizens.
The implementation, especially in large urban concentrations, of intelligent transport systems in order to control traffic will prevent traffic jams which cost the European Union approximately 1% per year of its gross domestic product.
At the same time, the development of the European railway system will contribute to compliance with European policies in the field of energy and tackling climate change.
Transport takes up over 30% of energy consumption, and that figure is set to rise by 30% in 20 years.
The European Union needs swift, effective measures.
At the same time, we must take into account that tax cannot simply be increased ad infinitum, as this would cause serious inflation and could lead to increased costs and reduced competitiveness in the whole sector.
I would like to point out that I think it is a good idea to link taxation to actual air pollution - for example in the vehicle registration tax system. 2.
In relative terms it is in this regard that they are lagging behind the most, and this should be given greater emphasis as a priority use of European Union resources. 4.
As regards internalisation of external costs, I agree that we need to create sector neutrality.
For hauliers in the new Member States, however, the provisions of the Eurovignette already present a major challenge due to the increasingly stringent standards for vehicle emissions, etc.
Finally, the unified European rail network must become a reality. (DE) Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the report, and I know that in Commissioner Barrot we have a champion of sustainable transport policy.
The challenge lies in maintaining the positive and necessary aspects of that mobility but in the most intelligent way possible, in other words, achieving sustainable mobility and thereby minimising the impact on our environment and health.
Looking forward, following on from what some of my colleagues have said on the need to diversify fuel sources, I would like to ask the Commissioner about the possibility of including hydrogenerating networks in trans-European energy networks in the future. (GA) Mr President, I would first like to thank Mr Albertini for presenting us with a very important and comprehensive Report.
Since 1990 energy consumption has increased by 225% because of road transport.
While these policies favour increased investment in roads, they neglect the development of rail transport in not only towns and cities, but in rural areas as well.
In conclusion, I advise the Commission to recognize the right of every Member State to set their own congestion charges and taxes. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this own-initiative report Mr Albertini has emphasised the need to establish a cross-cutting policy taking all aspects into account: transport, energy and the environment.
In the past fifteen years, carbon dioxide emissions from the transport sector have increased dramatically, in some Member States by more than 100%.
According to Commission forecasts, transport sector energy demand in the European Union will increase by at least 30% between now and 2030.
In my country, Hungary, the share of public transport had fallen to a mere 40% in 2007.
The third point to which I attach importance is referred to in paragraph 22, namely research.
Besides, it is within the framework of this report that we could possibly discuss the charges and the traffic on the Danube Bridge between Russe and Giurgiu, between Bulgaria and Romania. (CS) Madam President, allow me to make a comment on the debate that just took place: although most of us want to make the transport policy greener and agree that it is necessary to do so, at the same time no one wants to limit mobility.
It can be said that that lorry classification has enabled CO2 emissions to be reduced by 30 to 40%.
That also leads me to repeat the very sensible remark by Mr Rack that we need to be careful, because the industry must be made fully aware of the targets and the future framework in order to adapt.
rapporteur. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take a few seconds to thank Members for their constructive comments, not just those who have supported the report and highlighted some of its aspects, but in particular those who have commented on it and the few who have criticised it on reasoned grounds.
Particular thanks to Commissioner Barrot, not just for what he has been so kind as to say, but in particular for the very vigorous action that he is undertaking in respect of the subject matter of the report and for his willingness to enter into cooperation between Parliament and the Commission so that we can play the effective part that we are all keen to play in changing mobility - as he has rightly said in his brief statement -rather than reducing it.
We should perhaps take a more general view, especially as regards CO2 emissions and the CO2 generated by other sectors of our industrial civilisation.
If we want to achieve a 20% cut in emissions of these unwanted effects of our civilisation by 2020, we shall perhaps have to take more intensive action and pay more attention to other sectors as well which, as you are aware, lead the field in CO2 emissions, rather than just focusing on transport.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 11 March 2008.
