Ovine and caprine animals: electronic identification (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 21/2004 as regards the date of introduction of electronic identification for ovine and caprine animals - C6-0448/2007 -.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, as we all know, traceability is a key element of ensuring high standards in animal health and food safety.
The report concludes that technical conditions for electronic identification of sheep and goats have been fulfilled, but that Member States need a reasonable time frame to prepare the implementation of electronic identification.
It dates from 17 December 2003.
That regulation prescribes that, with effect from 1 January 2008, 'electronic identification according to the guidelines referred to in paragraph 1 [...] shall be obligatory for all animals'.
We should then have taken all this trouble for nothing, and so the committee decided that the provision on compulsory electronic tagging should enter into force on 31 December 2009 and be applicable from 1 January 2010, two years later than prescribed in the original regulation.
It will be a lesson to us that this report has made us stumble more or less by chance across this truly unusual way of proceeding on the part of the Commission and the Council.
Last week in my constituency in Scotland, cast ewes - for the non-agricultural people in the Chamber (there are not many people in the Chamber), they are old female sheep - were selling for GBP 2 a head.
A year ago they were selling for GBP 60 a head; this year, GBP 2 a head.
It would actually mean - if this becomes mandatory and we go by the dates set by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in their vote on Monday night, and we set 31 December 2009 as the mandatory introduction - that a whole group of sheep farmers in Britain will close down and go out of business.
Well now, these four Member States have undertaken the task, which seems so abhorrent to you, of convincing their farmers to tag ovine and caprine animals, because we were told that the regulation said that electronic identification was going to be obligatory from 1 January 2008.
If that is the case then there is no hope for us.
You are talking about 25 million sheep in the UK, 8.5 million in France, 3 million in Ireland and significant numbers in Spain and other countries.
Therefore, I think you are absolutely right to say, 'Come back at the end of 2009 and see where we are'.
I would say to Ms Miguélez Ramos: yes, we did make these speeches way back at the beginning when there was the discussion on tagging sheep.
The reality is that sheep farmers could never afford the cost of electronic tagging because they are receiving less now for their lambs than they were 20 years ago!
You tell me of any other part of any other business of any other industry that is asked to put out tremendous expenditure and receive less for what they are producing than they did 20 years ago.
I can accept coming back and looking at it in 2009.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has the floor on a point of order.
rapporteur. - (DE) Allow me to ask the Commissioner one more question.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, as I said, we have a problem accepting amendments that will affect the main principles and aspects of the regulation.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 13 December 2007.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - I do not believe that sufficient information has been provided on the efficiency and effectiveness of electronic identification (EID) for sheep and goats.
