Services in the internal market (debate) The first item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection on the Council common position for adopting a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market (10003/4/2006 C6-0270/2006 2004/0001 (COD)) (Rapporteur: Mrs Gebhardt).
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are today reaching the end of a debate that has been going on in this House for more than two years, on the subject of the services directive.
I believe that we can be entirely happy with, and proud of, the work we have done on this issue.
The economy is important, stability is important, but the most important thing of all is the people on whose behalf we make policy.
With this common text that we have created we have succeeded, through the removal of the country of origin principle, for one thing, in protecting the rights of workers, namely labour law, social law, consumer protection and other important issues relating to rights, and in ensuring that we have a positive regulation.
It was very important for us to have ensured that the rights of employees were advanced, thereby averting an unhealthy competition between the social systems of the Member States.
This we have achieved by means, for example, of having actually codified the principle of the freedom to provide services, of having made it crystal clear that protectionist measures in the Member States must be abolished and that single points of contact are available in order to help service providers to move around the European Union.
I believe that the Commission can provide an important answer to these questions today.
Specifically, it can clear up a couple of points that are absolutely fundamental for us, relating, in particular, to labour law, social security entitlements, criminal law and the orientations that the Commission is to provide under the services directive and that the Commission, as far as I am aware, will not be using in order to undertake to provide interpretations of the implementation of the services directive, but rather to ensure that the services directive represents an aid to the Member States.
It is undeniable that the Services Directive is an essential element in our efforts to boost the European economy and unleash the potential of the internal market for services.
The text which is now on the table will provide real added value to the internal market, cutting red tape, removing barriers and improving legal certainty for business and consumers.
The new provision on the freedom to provide services, which was at the heart of the compromise in first reading, strikes a fair balance between guaranteeing the rights of service providers to free access and free exercise of a service activity whilst allowing Member States the right to invoke their most essential requirements in certain clearly defined circumstances.
The position of the European Parliament has been crucial to finding a broad consensus on these issues.
In the end, and after a vigorous defence by the Commission and the Presidency of the compromise reached in Parliament, the common position was adopted.
In this context, I would like to make the following statements to address the concerns that some of you have raised. 'Concerning the screening of national requirements which Member States apply to services provided from other Member States, the Council has requested the Commission to provide orientations and analysis and the Commission will use its best efforts to abide with this task.
The Commission will carry out this task in an open and transparent manner in close cooperation with the other institutions.
Concerning the impact of the Services Directive on labour law, the European Parliament and the Council wanted to avoid that the Services Directive affects labour law or the rights of the social partners to defend their collective interests.
The Commission wants to state unambiguously that the Services Directive does indeed not affect labour law laid down in national legislation and established practices in the Member States and that it does not affect collective rights which the social partners enjoy according to national legislation and established practices.
The Services Directive is neutral as to the different models in the Member States regarding the role of the social partners and the organisation of how collective interests are defended according to national law and practices.
This means that in general Member States will be able to apply their criminal law rules not only to service providers established on their territory but also to service providers from other Member States providing services within their territory.
These services have thus been excluded from the scope of application of the Services Directive.
The Commission hopes that they will facilitate the acceptance of the common position by Parliament.
Before concluding, I note that Mrs McCarthy has tabled three amendments on behalf of her committee relating to the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
I look forward to hearing the view of this House. (Applause) President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, Mr Gebhardt, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as earlier speakers have already said, today we are making internal market history.
For almost three years the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission have been engaged in painstaking, ambitious work on the Services Directive.
To be perfectly frank, the work has not always been easy and progress has sometimes been slow.
Six presidencies of the Council have been involved in the difficult task of drafting the directive.
The Council's common position since last spring has given the Presidency a strong mandate to take this matter forward.
I also especially appreciate the fact that the European Parliament has shown sensitivity in the matter of a common decision here too and the added value which comes with that.
The Commission's role in the drafting process has also been crucial.
Commissioner McCreevy today mentioned some delicate issues in the directive, on which the Commission has been required to adopt a position.
The Commissioner's personal role during the complex drafting process was exemplary in terms of its objectivity and the way it respected the opinions of both institutions.
The common objective and intention to develop the internal market has nevertheless remained unchanged.
The directive will open a number of doors, both to service providers and, at the same time, the receivers of services, be they consumers or businesses.
The Services Directive does not, however, represent an end to the development of the internal market in services.
On the contrary, the directive is a unique step forward in the development of the internal market in viable services.
Mr President, I hope that Parliament will take a final and definite decision on the Services Directive today in the plenary part-session.
I now therefore feel able to recommend to the House that it should adopt the Common Position as presented to us by the Council of Ministers without making any amendments, excepting of course the three amendments relating to the comitology procedure on which we have agreed among ourselves.
I have accepted it this time because 90% of Parliament's text was adopted and because we in this House did not suffer any great losses.
That is not constructive cooperation and I truly hope that this will be an isolated example and that, in future, we will again be able to enjoy normal cooperation in the codecision process. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, this is an important day for European citizens.
This directive is about improving the standard of living of all citizens in the European Union and encouraging growth and dynamism in the economy.
It is as fundamental as that.
What is so important about this directive - and sometimes we perhaps forget this during our big debates - is that it has actually been the result of painstaking work by the Commission, to whom I would like to pay tribute.
I particularly want to single out the fact that for the first time we have a specific requirement on Member States to promote the single market in relation to their businesses, to encourage businesses to take advantage of the single market in the services sector and go out and trade crossborder.
I particularly want to thank my own team on the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, many of whom will be speaking shortly, but we also worked very closely with our Liberal colleagues, particularly in the crucial vote that the Presidency was kind enough to mention earlier on.
I am particularly obliged to Commissioner McCreevy, without whom this process could not have been structured so well, and to the Council Presidencies - particularly the Finnish, but also the Austrian Council Presidency.
This should not remain an isolated case; the possibility should definitely be left open in other contexts, too.
I also wish to thank the European Trade Union Confederation for holding such intensive consultations with us and also making it possible to arrive at a compromise on this.
After all, politics at EU level consists not only in removing the obstacles to an internal market - that is part of the story - but also in creating the political framework conditions for rendering this internal market acceptable to the people.
Naturally, we have some reservations - which will be presented later - but, on the whole, my group supports this good compromise that has been reached.
Once again, sincere thanks to Mrs Gebhardt. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Mr President, I wish to thank my colleagues Malcolm Harbour and Evelyne Gebhardt, and many others, for their excellent levels of cooperation.
I know that there are people in this House who are dissatisfied, because they think that we have not gone far enough, but there are also those who believe that Parliament and the Council took too great a leap.
The free mobility of the workforce is just as important as the Services Directive for a viable EU internal market.
If we are to take a step forwards with the Services Directive, it is to be hoped that progress will be made in the same way as regards the free mobility of labour. (Applause) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gebhardt, we are disappointed at the refusal of the three largest groups, the majority of this House, to conduct a proper second reading of the Services Directive today.
Mrs Gebhardt fought to the very end, but this makes it all the harder for us to understand how she can describe as a great triumph for Parliament an outcome she recently said contained some points that were legally imprecise and unclear.
Admittedly, the Council put us under great pressure by stating from the outset that any amendment of its text would result in the failure of the whole Directive - but this was the same Council that stated at its first reading that it had followed Parliament's text virtually in its entirety.
Sadly, however, it had not followed our text in its entirety, and a lack of clarity has crept into some points, mainly on issues surrounding social Europe.
This lack of clarity relates to the definition and exclusion of services in general and services of general economic interest in particular.
It makes a difference whether I give the example of social services or content myself with an incomplete list, which leaves large gaps in the case of some Member States and thus ends up having to be decided by the European Court of Justice.
It is incomprehensible how this could be accepted in the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
Sadly, however, the committee paid no further attention to this issue, but instead merely reaffirmed its reluctance to cause the Council any problems.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, in Parliament's relations with the Council, we are familiar with codecision and conciliation.
Dare I remind you that it was in fact Mr McCreevy who, just a year ago, used Community law to justify preventing a Latvian business from recognising collective agreements in Sweden, in the Waxholm affair that caused such a stir?
For example, the Commission's communication on social services sets out an extremely simplistic vision of these services, which, by the way, Commissioner Špidla was keen to stress would increasingly fall within the scope of Community law on the internal market and competition.
The European Commission has identified over 90 obstacles which service providers, such as mechanics, accountants and IT specialists, have to overcome in order to carry out their activities in another Member State.
Fortunately, we have managed to avoid further corruption of the Services Directive by rejecting, at the sitting of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, all the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, Mrs Gebhardt.
The rules are very unclear.
These are three important questions to which I have not received clear answers.
The June Movement is in favour of there being a common market for services too, and we welcome, in particular, workers and companies from the new Member States, but Danish rates of pay must apply.
This directive will not put an end to social, fiscal and wage dumping.
For example, more than 100 000 construction workers are posted in France on temporary contracts, most of them undeclared.
In such cases, labour law is being flouted legally.
I therefore hope that we will maintain this course when we vote and that we will manage to back the common position by a very broad majority, for it is, after all, a good reflection of the compromise that we ourselves hammered out.
This has been the single most controversial but also the most important piece of legislation in the EU.
The litmus test will be whether we can deliver and open up the market for businesses and give the benefits to our consumers.
I am pleased that now, at long last, the politicians, the elected representatives of the citizens of Europe, have taken a decision about the free movement of services.
I would remind you that this directive will be transposed by all Member States by 2009 at the latest, and that the Commission's initial assessment report will not be presented to the European Parliament until 2010.
That, therefore, is when we will see what impact this text really has in the various Member States, at the end of the assessment procedure laid down in Article 39 of the directive.
I would like to conclude with a few words on the general philosophy that underlies this proposal: our group supported the free provision of services, and in particular of cross-border services.
In spite of all the protests and all the opposition, Parliament is to pass this Directive today, and those who stand to gain from it owe particular thanks to those in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament who have done their best to throw dust in people's eyes with lies and deceit.
The previous European Commission based the draft directive on the state of origin principle - a principle which the European Court of Justice has developed and which has been consolidated in the case law of international private law.
The state of origin principle has disappeared from the directive's text, and the wording of the provisions of its Article 16 resembles the mutual recognition principle - a principle which in practice may prove to be too subjective and unwieldy to open up the services market.
Today the European Parliament will delegate to the Member States full responsibility to decide whether, when and how the European Union's services market will develop.
We are giving free rein to the Court of Justice, which is the inventor of this concept in its judgments in the 'Cassis de Dijon' and 'Säger' cases.
The second point relates to the protection of employees.
The scope of the directive has once again been extended, and will now affect some 6 000 occupations, and perhaps even more, given how ambiguous the text is.
In conclusion, I think that, in this compromise that was wanted by all 25 Member States, the Court and the Commission are gaining an enormous amount of power to complete the internal market, without worrying about the social dumping that is crushing our workers and will continue to aggravate unemployment.
Quite frankly, how many of us are now able to look the electorate in the eye? (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not least in the light of the widespread interests of the system of small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those of Padania, we feel that the aims - in relation to the Commission's original project, which was already just as dangerous - of imposing one regulation on all of the Member States of the European Union are still very dangerous, because they lead to cut-throat competition in the services sector, which, let us remember, represents 70% of the GDP produced within the European Union.
It is reasonable to wonder whether, on such a sensitive issue as this, the remarks made by civil society have really been heard and taken on board, and whether the dangers of social and economic dumping have actually been eliminated from this new, sugar-coated version of the Bolkestein Directive.
We are against this bureaucratic centralism of the European Union. (HU) Mr President, along with many other MEPs from the new Member States, I did not vote for the Services Directive at first reading last year.
In the proceedings since the first reading, the involvement of the new Member States and of MEPs was more actively sought.
These problems have not been solved in the Council's common position, which, although it has indeed incorporated the essence of the conclusions from Parliament's first reading, has taken a backward step on several other points, in particular social services and labour law, as the European Trade Union Confederation has underlined.
It would, however, have been more logical, given that the codecision procedure has not been completed, to adopt amendments to clarify these elements within the articles themselves.
Unfortunately, I note that the PPE has neutralised the second reading by rejecting all the amendments proposed by the rapporteur during the debate in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
However, as we have just heard in this House, the fact that the European Council changed a number of important sentences after first reading means that the second reading does not go far enough, which is a pity.
There is still too much vagueness, too many grey areas, in this compromise proposed by the Commission and the European Council. (NL) Mr President, Parliament is about to vote on the European Services Directive, probably for the last time.
The text remains unclear and open to different interpretations.
It is also an indictment of politicians that they have forgotten that competition is one of the instruments of economic development and that social standards are the fruits, and not the seeds, of prosperity.
The European Parliament has joined forces in order to draw up the directive on the internal market in services.
The directive actually opens up the internal market in services and makes it compulsory for the Member States to do away with any obstacles to the free provision of services.
This compromise - as I can testify, insofar as I have followed its development since summer 2004 - stems from the proposals made by my political group and from the agreements concluded within the group between what, at the outset, were differing national and ideological positions.
This directive has its origins in dialogue, which is the very substance of our parliamentary life.
That is why I should like to begin by thanking not only our principal overseer, Mr Harbour, but also Mrs Thyssen, with whom I worked hand in hand, Mr Karas, Mr Szájer and Mrs Handzlik, Mrs Gebhardt, who has mastered the matter from start to finish and who has been so kind as to take me, the inexperienced MEP that I am, into consideration, and Mrs McCarthy and Mr Whitehead, whom I should certainly not like to forget.
The common position represents 95% of our text.
The role of Parliament, our right, is, on the contrary, to shoulder our responsibilities.
That is why the French members of the UMP are going to vote in favour of the common position, by choosing what is truly important. (FI) Mr President, two years ago I voiced my concern in this House that in some countries the debate on the Services Directive has also brought to the surface feelings of xenophobia and a call for economic protectionism, neither of which are a credit to this Community.
The Prime Minister of Luxembourg recently wondered why we are now more afraid of people coming from the east than of the missiles that were in position there 20 years ago.
We have nevertheless achieved a compromise, through discussion, and one with which we can live, since this directive will finally open up the market in services, albeit only partially.
Furthermore, in the future the directive will obviously be made more workable and open as far as all the citizens of Europe are concerned.
We need to learn that we on this continent cannot successfully compete with other continents if we do not even have the courage to compete amongst ourselves. - (LT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to welcome Mrs Gebhardt, who has drafted this elaborate document.
Some of us have proclaimed it a great achievement that we were able to reach a compromise.
The proposed directive may boost the emergence of new services by laying the legal foundations.
I should like to congratulate Commissioner McCreevy, Mrs Gebhardt and Mr Harbour for all their work.
The directive will make Europe more competitive and thereby create jobs and give better value to its citizens.
About 50% of all world trade is now in emerging economies and if we want to compete with them and hold on to the European social model, we need a vibrant economy to invest in the sort of services that we feel are important for the citizens of Europe.
That is a good compromise.
The June List welcomes the fact that the Council, in common with Parliament, chose to reject the country of origin principle.
It would certainly have facilitated increased competition within some services sectors, but the disadvantages were out of all proportion.
The country of origin principle would have forced the Member States to give up national self-determination in some of the most important areas of social life.
Their inclusion would have fed the growth of that destructive industry and added to the misery and social instability which it so often spawns. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year began with demonstrations against the Directive, and is ending with a triumph for parliamentarianism.
Freedom to provide services is a fundamental right; today's decision represents an important step in dealing with this freedom.
This has enabled us to achieve more market, a stronger internal market, and also growth and employment, and to ensure social security.
I should also like to thank all my fellow Members, however, especially those who refused from the outset to support efforts to achieve a qualified majority at first reading, because a compromise is always harder to champion than an individual position.
We have simplified many things, provided legal certainty and presented a model of parliamentary work to the public. (Applause from the right) (ES) Mr President, I think the speeches so far have made the position quite clear: a large majority of this Parliament is going to vote in favour of the text adopted, and there is therefore no reason to fear that the proposal for a directive will be rejected.
This is thanks not only to the great work by Mrs Gebhardt, but also to the great work by Commissioner McCreevy.
Through the legislation that we have adopted, Parliament, the Commission and the Council are going to provide European society with a system of freedom, in the provision of services, which, at the same time, is going to safeguard the high level of working, social and also environmental conditions that we have at the moment.
I believe that the three institutions have made a great effort.
In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that this is a great day for the European Parliament, for the Council, for the Commission and for all of the citizens of the European Union. (DE) Mr President, the leap taken today by the Brussels grand coalition, largely excluding its members in the new Member States, went nowhere near far enough.
It is now called upon to follow implementation in the Member States attentively, so that new burdens are not imposed on SMEs, in particular, through the national back door. - (SK) The directive we have in front of us now only contains a fraction of the original text, as almost all areas, including the main principle of country of origin, have been deleted.
The country-of-origin principle means that a small business from Bratislava may apply Slovak law when serving a customer in Vienna.
The fact that they have been allayed is at least partly attributable to the opening up of a path towards the completion of the internal market for services.
The country of origin principle has become the principle of freedom to provide services.
The internal market must be completed but, as the Bruegel institute recently made clear, it also needs to be highlighted even more strongly by Member States, civil society actors, and even the Commission and Parliament, including for the purposes of public understanding.
This represents another great challenge for us.
Personally, I consider the criticism levelled by some respected Members of this House that too many tasks would be transferred to the European Court of Justice in the course of the follow-up to be rather petty as, in any case, the main responsibility under a framework directive remains with the Member States.
A year and a half ago, the case of the Polish plumber was the embodiment of a xenophobia that is condemnable in all its forms.
A year and a half ago, we saw no hope for an agreement between employer and worker, between old and new Member States, between left and right.
Today discrimination between old and new Member States is gone.
It is an enormous achievement that we are creating new opportunities for all 476 million inhabitants of the Union.
Firstly, I am convinced that the adoption of this directive in its current form can help Europe.
However, this very difficult compromise clearly is of some value, and is better than having no directive at all.
These exceptions may create a situation where the ubiquitous Polish plumber becomes an unwelcome guest.
To conclude, the Devil is not as black as he is painted, and the Polish plumber is not as terrible as has been suggested, even by some Members of this House. (PL) Mr President, the Services Directive is not simply a legislative document about services.
Or proof to all Europeans that we can work in common in a united Europe, and that this brings notable benefits for the average citizen.
It is proof that together, we can achieve important things in the European Union and that, based on our combined experience, it is possible to achieve a widely accepted compromise.
Work on the Directive has proved that we can overcome divisions along national, party and historical lines and draft a balanced legislative document for the 450 million-strong consumer market which serves the interests of both service providers and consumers.
However, in my opinion, thanks to the hundreds of hours of work that went into it and the involvement of many people, the Directive has become a compromise legislative document for a united Europe where, whilst opening up and liberalising the services market, we are also ensuring that consumers and service providers obtain an adequate level of protection.
In the Member States, including Poland, the Directive provides much hope for better job opportunities, which is something that many service providers and consumers have been eagerly waiting for.
I am convinced that, as representatives of the citizens of Europe, we have done our duty and we can today vote in favour of the Directive with a clear conscience.
It is an important step towards the integration of the single market, although a lot of work remains to be done in order to open it up completely.
Work on the Services Directive has been particularly important for the new Member States.
During the first reading, we saw many examples of national selfishness, protectionism and opportunism, but we were also able to work out a common denominator that serves the interests of all the European Member States. (NL) Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that I wish, first of all, to extend warm thanks to Mrs Gebhardt and all those of my fellow Members with whom I have worked on this directive for so many months, because thanks to this cooperation, and thanks also, of course, to the mobilisation by the trade unions and NGOs, we now have before us a Services Directive in which labour law, collective labour agreements, social rights and consumer rights are fully respected.
I am grateful for the fact that Parliament has closely followed the Council's common position in this.
Those Members who have said that there are a number of ambiguities in the Council's common position are, of course, right, Mr President-in-Office, and along with a few fellow Members, I would have wanted to eliminate these by means of a number of amendments.
Whilst I do believe that the legal meaning of the Commission's interpretation is limited, I am very grateful to the Commission for its interpretation nevertheless, because I think, Commissioner, that the interpretation has a very strong political meaning - one of commitment by the Commission, about which my fellow Members and I are sure to remind this Commission and its successors.
This may, in itself, not be a good enough reason to vote against, but what is is the fact that this directive appears to create grounds of justification for exempting public services from the rules of fair competition.
Mr President, this is an incredible missed opportunity for Europe. (EL) Mr President, the directive we are debating today is a success for Europe, a success for development and a success for the workers.
The OECD, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, says in one of its reports that 2.5 million new jobs which will be created thanks to this directive.
We have unanimity in the Council and we have an overwhelming majority of members in the European Parliament who support the Council's common position.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the liberals and the socialists have together all arrived at a common approach and this proves that Europe can still dialogue, compose and arrive at solutions needed for the citizens, specially for the most financially and socially weak.
The second reason is that we have removed obstacles to the movement of persons not by playing workers off against each other, but by attempting to make use of this freedom of movement to enhance workers' rights.
At last we can let out a sigh of relief after more than 12 years of fun and frolics and at last we can look forward to an internal market in services, which may be one that has had a limb cut off, but it is better than nothing.
The Commission, with Mr McCreevy at the fore, is in the process of investigating the pools monopolies of no less than 10 Member States.
In other words, the consequences of having a watered down directive are that we get legislation in dribs and drabs rather than getting clear and precise rules relating to services for all the industries and areas of the EU.
Today we will build a bridge that represents a hard-won compromise following three years of negotiation between Parliament and the Council.
The proposal that we have adopted is not without its faults but in life - and especially so in political life - one cannot have everything.
Mrs Gebhardt and Parliament have already done a great deal of work on this Directive since its first reading.
I would like to end by saying that we should re-establish the trust there has been between the Member States, and remember that in 1957, 50 years ago, we defined this Union as being based on four freedoms, which are the free movement of services, goods, money and people. (Applause from the centre and from the right) (SV) Mr President, I too want to begin by thanking all those involved and, most particularly, the rapporteur, Mrs Gebhardt, who has done an incredibly good job.
In conclusion, I want to say that these matters are important and that what we have here are Parliament's proposals.
From the very outset of our term in Parliament, we have actively participated in stormy discussions and explained that services market liberalisation is needed in order to create new jobs, increase the rate of growth in the European Union and fulfil our ambition of becoming the dominant player in global competition.
We have tried to persuade our colleagues that the Polish plumber is not a threat but a benefit to the European internal market.
The European Parliament has accepted a compromise that partly liberalises the market but retains protection for it in a number of areas.
The good news is that the Council's Common Position Paper is similar to the position reached by the European Parliament in the first reading.
Ladies and gentlemen, through today's historic vote the European Parliament may become the architect of the EU's common market for services.
I expect the Member States to behave with a similar sense of responsibility and to implement the Services Directive in their national legislation in less than three years.
It is a good day, not only for the Polish plumber, but also for European consumers and enterprises.
The service sector accounts for 70% of the European economy.
Of course, the compromise reached is by no means ideal and does not meet all of our expectations.
Meanwhile, the liberalisation of the services market will result in growth in GDP of all the Member States and is a powerful stimulus for the creation of hundreds of thousands of new jobs.
Despite the fact that, after a hard-fought parliamentary battle, a series of socially important services have been excluded from the original directive, the text on which we are about to vote remains ambiguous and still does not clearly set the boundary between this directive and labour law and national social safeguards.
Above all, we call for the application of the directive to be strictly monitored, so that the rules protecting employee and consumer rights and health and safety at work are not breached. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, back in the last parliamentary term and part of this one, I worked on other directives and initiatives regarding the implementation of the internal market, alongside Mrs Gebhardt and Mr Harbour.
This fundamentally important directive will certainly bear the name of Mrs Gebhardt, whom I should like to congratulate on the skill with which she has managed, not now but back at the stage of first reading, to bring the directive in question to a successful conclusion in such an important sector as this.
I am not sure whether it is clear to everyone that the legislation that we are adopting is aimed at harmonising the national systems and not at imposing itself on them: this is a concept that, in my view, should be clear to everyone.
While we prepare to take another step on the road to completing the internal market, it must be acknowledged and clearly pointed out once again - having heard a name that no longer exists still floating about in this Chamber - that, in comparison with the national self-interests represented by the Council and with the other kinds of self-interest represented by the Commission, the European Parliament is the institution that succeeds in resolving highly significant issues. (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the majority in the European Parliament considers that the Bolkenstein directive has not existed since last February.
The initial proposal has in fact been improved and some of its dangerous provisions have been abolished.
The neoliberal spirit, however, remains in the Council's common position, in that crucial issues about European workers' rights are not clarified.
In addition, services of general economic interest are not exempted from the scope and, in the article at issue about the principle of the country of origin, the principle of ambiguity prevails.
The European Parliament has conjured broad support out of a political conflict.
Sweden's new government is now trying to simplify the rules in the labour market and make it more profitable to work.
According to some estimates, some 600 000 new jobs will be created.
This outcome is a success, given all the circumstances for citizens as workers, consumers and service providers.
The outcome demonstrates that it is possible for effective and fair outcomes to be achieved between 25 Member States, despite all our differences.
While no political group in Parliament has got exactly what it wants, we have managed to reach a workable compromise acceptable to the vast majority of Members.
Businesses and consumers alike should benefit from the creation of a more open common market for services.
At the moment services account for only 20% of trade between Member States.
There is broad consensus among Member States on this text.
The vast majority of Members of this House indicate that they will support it in the vote that will take place in a short while.
That is thanks to a large number of people, both here in Parliament but also in the various Member States and in the Commission.
The European Union's common goal is to improve our economy in terms of its productivity and competitiveness, and to increase employment.
The establishment of a more viable internal market in services is very important if we are to attain these goals.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.30 a.m.
At the same time, in view of the amendments concerning exclusions, it is questionable which areas shall in practice fall outside the Directive on the free movement of services, and whether in its present form it fulfils its original purpose.
