These three countries are on the list of 13 candidate countries involved in the accession process, and this kind of agreement, whereby authorisation can be given for them to take part in Community programmes and agencies, seeks to strengthen the pre-accession strategy.
These agreements will certainly bring a great many benefits, and I see no problems as regards the participation arrangements, either on a technical level insofar as the countries concerned will have links to REITOX and will share data, in full compliance with Community and national rules on data protection or on a financial level, in that they will have to contribute to covering the cost of their participation.
in writing. (DA) The Galileo programme is an EU programme for satellite-based radio navigation.
It will also be a better system from a technical point of view, with 30 satellites providing better coverage.
For the commercial service, this will mean precision to within 3 mm, whereas GPS provides precision to within approximately 2 to 3 cm.
The June Movement is therefore voting in favour of the proposal.
I am also well aware that these negotiations are a masquerade and that the aim is to impose the secession of Kosovo.
I have voted for referral back to committee, but I would like to say on this subject that fundamental rights include that of pensioners to collect a pension.
The socialist-communist government, currently in power in Italy and led by President Prodi, is cutting the pensions of 500 000 Italian citizens who have worked abroad, in Switzerland, by two thirds of the sum that they are currently receiving.
Thank you very much, Mrs Korhola.
in writing. - (FR) If there is one area in which Brussels is highly productive, it is surely that of creating agencies: defence, anti-drug, maritime, road and air safety, energy, reconstruction, etc., etc.
Since 1953, this function has been performed at the highest level by the well-respected European Court of Human Rights, to which many more states are party than there are EU Member States, and the process has been highly successful.
For this reason, while I voted in favour of the whole package of amendments to Mrs G치l's report, I nevertheless came down in favour of deferring the final vote to let the Council reconsider its position.
Although the Council common position on a proposal for a directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions was rejected in the European Parliament by a resounding majority (648 votes) in July 2005, the Commission relaunched the debate in January on the future of the patenting system in the EU.
In the interests of completeness, then, measures should also be analysed that do not enjoy the approval of all sides. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour of the Jeggle report, in a convinced and reasoned manner, because I am of the opinion that it is one of the initiatives that will take forward the debate on the subject of research on animals, that is to say on limiting research on live animals as much as possible.
in writing. (SV) We voted against Mrs Jeggle's own-initiative report as a whole, because, in many areas, it counteracts the EU's efforts to strengthen animal protection.
Farmers, in particular those on small and medium-sized holdings and those involved in traditional farming, should be compensated for financial losses incurred in implementing animal welfare measures.
It is vital that this activity change as soon as possible so that it no longer depends crucially on animal suffering.
However, I do not support the ideas, put forward in the explanatory statement of the report, of creating an EU centre or laboratory for the protection and welfare of animals.
It is for the Member States to ensure that they implement an animal protection policy in accordance with the general strategy for animal protection agreed at EU level.
in writing. (SV) We welcome the Commission's proposal for an Action Plan on the Protection and Welfare of Animals 2006-2010.
We therefore chose to abstain in the final vote on this report today.
However, I do not support the ideas, put forward in the explanatory statement of the report, of creating an EU centre or laboratory for the protection and welfare of animals.
It is for the Member States to ensure that they implement an animal protection policy in accordance with the general strategy for animal protection agreed at EU level.
I voted for the report drafted by my excellent colleague Jan Christian Ehler on the follow-up to the report on competition in professional services.
I share the view that it is imperative to incorporate providers of professional services into our European internal market, but we must take account of the specific characteristics of these professions as regards the indispensable requirement to afford special protection to European consumers in a market that is rapidly becoming more and more international.
This fulfils, in other words, the objectives of total deregulation and the strengthening of competition contained in the Kok report of November 2004 and included in the relaunch of the Lisbon Strategy in 2005.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by my honourable colleague and friend, Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, on economic and trade relations between the European Union and Mercosur.
The report talks, for example, of the strategic external policy factors involved in an agreement, of aid and of giving Parliament more power in both trade and external policy matters.
I have therefore voted against the report in today's vote.
in writing. (SV) Free trade is the most important agent of prosperity in the world, and the more countries that participate in it, the more the prosperity of those countries will grow.
It also advocates gradual and reciprocal liberalisation of trade.
While the report does highlight the costs that would result from a failure to adopt the agreement, it devotes not a single word to the social costs that an EU/Mercosur free trade area would bring with it, for the free trade agreements reached over the past decades show with terrible clarity that the liberalisation of trading relationships laid down in them does nothing to help increase prosperity.
In the two concrete cases that I am aware of, Mallow and Carlow sugar plants in Ireland, this balance is not apparent.
in writing. (SV) We have voted against this resolution since it is designed to restrict access to the internal market for third countries and in various ways to make it more difficult for them to gain such access, and since it is designed to introduce various new forms of aid for EU farmers within the sector in question.
in writing. (SV) I am voting against both of these reports because Mrs K칩s치ne Kov치cs' report will most likely stress that it is the job of the EU to decide on and implement a common foreign and security policy.
