I will not go further into this question now, but wish only to underline the concern that we have over developments, without being able to assess those in every single detail because they are exceedingly complex, our hope that they could be resolved peacefully and our readiness to engage with the Chinese authorities in a frank dialogue on these issues, as well as on the broad range of other interests that we share together and that we need to have a dialogue on.
Economic and trade relations have been transformed, people-to-people contacts are multiplying and we are engaged in dialogue on an ever-increasing range of issues.
I too am of the opinion that we should continue the One China policy to achieve the cohesion of China as a unified state, and that we do not want to jeopardise any of this.
The Uighurs of Xinjiang Province have suffered more than most, particularly since the occupation of East Turkestan by the People's Republic of China in 1949.
Here, Mr Bildt, is a role for the European Union.
In Xinjiang, the region of the Uighurs, there is just as little cultural autonomy as in Tibet.
However, the EU remains wedded to a one-China policy and, given that the EU officially considers Taiwan and Tibet part of the People's Republic of China, we should certainly not support in any way the secession of Xinjiang province.
The local Christian community is straining absolutely every sinew against the dangerous religious dimension of the ethnic divisions in Xinjiang.
Thus, on 3 July, eight Christians were arrested in Xinjiang during a service.
Mr President, 'violence', 'a high number of casualties', 'hundreds dead and wounded in China in the uprising in Xinjiang province': those were the alarming reports we received 10 days ago.
In fact, China's policy towards these ethnic minorities was liberal in the 1980s but it has gradually become tougher, and the Chinese authorities seized upon 11 September 2001 in order to publicise their fight against - and note how they are all merged - terrorism, separatism and religious extremism.
Human rights in China are a political problem, and we must dare to remind that country of its commitments to its people and of the risk that it would run with regard to the international community should it fail to fulfil them.
We shall expect strong action from the Swedish Presidency in this regard. (PL) Mr President, the way in which protests have been dealt with in Xinjiang province has provided further confirmation of the authoritarian nature of the Communist authorities in Beijing.
At least 180 people are now dead and 1600 injured as a result of the most significant ethnic conflict to take place in China in recent decades.
Unofficial sources indicate that where China is concerned, this minority consists of over 30 million people.
Radio Liberty and Radio Free Europe were also previously based in Munich.
I regret that in China, a country very important for the EU, some 1 680 people have been injured and 184 killed.
The problem started in a toy factory in Guangdong and spread.
Among those killed in the riots in Urumqi were 137 Han Chinese and 46 Uighur Chinese.
I would really like to find out from the Council and the Commission, however, what tangible measures they are going to put in place in the short term. (DE) Mr President, we are having this debate on the basis of the universal nature of human rights, but also on the basis of the need for a global partnership.
The incident that took place on 5 July involved a premeditated attack on the Han Chinese population of that city by the Uighurs.
They mounted a violent attack that led to the deaths of 137 Han Chinese.
So let us base our criticism on facts and not take unfair records against the Chinese. (DE) Mr President, I think that this conflict is very often presented in a very one-sided manner.
We ought to support the Chinese in solving their problems.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I think this debate has really reflected the complexities of the issues that we face.
What has been addressed here are issues ranging from the different system that China has and the evolution of that particular system, the importance that we attach to human rights and the need to help China develop in the direction of a more open society, better respecting those human rights, as well as the problems attached to minority rights, problems that are there in China.
We all want to develop and live in harmonious societies and clearly we need to see what we can do in order to help China develop in the direction of a society that is seen as harmonious by each and every one of the citizens of China.
