author. - Mr President, the people of Sri Lanka - Sinhalese and particularly the Tamils - have suffered enormously over these past 30 years from a ruthless terrorist campaign conducted by the LTTE.
The 25-year civil war in Sri Lanka appears to be over.
Another sector in which change is needed is freedom of the press and freedom of expression.
I believe a new beginning for this country will be rich in opportunity if the Tamil leaders are included in a constructive manner.
I wish, for the sake of the citizens of Sri Lanka, that an expression which I have heard time and again - 'war is an institution' - will finally be consigned to the past. (Applause) author. - Mr President, the policy pursued towards the Tamil people by the Government of President Rajapaksa has resulted in a nightmare for both the Sinhala and Tamil peoples in Sri Lanka, with massive repression by the Sri Lankan state against individuals and groups who have stood up against its chauvinist policies.
After the defeat of the Tamil Tigers, the nightmare continues for the Tamil people, especially in the north of Sri Lanka, with 300 000 people - including 31 000 children - forcefully detained in camps where disease and malnutrition are rife.
Mr President, everything that my colleagues here testified to concerning the current situation in Sri Lanka was confirmed when the Subcommittee on Human Rights recently organised a hearing on this nightmarish situation.
We can actually confirm that the movements of these 260 000 Tamils are still being restricted, contrary to all international laws, even though it has been months now since the war itself ended.
Mr President, victors should be generous and I think that, in Sri Lanka, a lot of people have still not understood this.
Mr President, in May this year, after the government's victory over the Tamil Tigers, it appeared that the civil war in Sri Lanka had finally come to an end after many years.
The government is keeping more than 250 000 people in camps on political grounds, not even giving access to humanitarian organisations.
In September this year, the Supreme Court in Colombo sentenced a journalist to 20 years' imprisonment, which the EU Presidency regarded as a threat to freedom of speech and which was roundly condemned.
Signing this document would certainly help to resolve this problem and would, at the same time, allow the country to apply for assistance for the victims of landmines and speed up the mine removal campaign, which has been operating since 2003 with little effect.
Since March 2009, Colombo has been holding almost all of the civilians who fled the fighting between the army and the Tamil Tigers, in complete violation of international law and human rights.
In July, the Sri Lankan Government was holding more than 280 000 people in 30 camps guarded by the army in the north-east of the island.
In some camps, more than 1 000 people are dying every week, mainly of dysentery.
President Rajapaksa declared last week that only 100 000 Tamil refugees would be released.
Nevertheless, the conflict, which lasted 25 years, ended in the defeat of the Tamil Tigers this year.
The European Commission recently concluded an in-depth investigation into the state of human rights in Sri Lanka.
The debate is closed.
