Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 25 April 2002.
Colleagues, on 6 May Pim Fortuyn, a Dutch politician and candidate in this week's general election in the Netherlands was shot dead in Hilversum.
That is precisely the basis of our democratic system.
On behalf of the European Parliament I should also like to welcome the release of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi from house arrest.
I heard the call of Aung San Suu Kyi last week for a European Union common policy on Burma.
I expressed the hope on behalf of our House that this release will be followed by the development of such a policy in active cooperation with the European Parliament.
Mr President, I had hoped that we would have the opportunity for an urgency on the subject of the plane-spotters (12 British and two Dutch nationals) who were convicted on 26 April at a court in Kalamata in Greece.
I am speaking especially on behalf of my constituents, Paul and Lesley Coppin.
Mr President, I should like to ask you to express our concern to the Greek authorities and urge them to expedite the appeal process for the plane-spotters with a view to quashing their convictions.
Mr President, you will be aware of the great sense of shock at the fatal rail accident which took place last Friday at Potters Bar station in Hertfordshire, claiming the lives of seven people and injuring some 70 people.
A few miles up the line is the site of the fatal accident which took place in Hatfield only 18 months ago.
In view of the concerns expressed by the Irish people and the evidence already available to us and the frequent concerns expressed by me and many others to this House, I should like to ask you, Mr President, whether you would undertake in a personal capacity, or as President of this Parliament, a visit to the Sellafield site in Cumbria.
Mr President, I rise in defence of Sellafield British Nuclear Fuels and the workers in that establishment who maintain the highest possible standards in their work.
BNFL were present at a hearing in the European Parliament in April and had to confirm under cross-examination from me that emissions were currently rising from Sellafield.
I am grateful that you wrote in the past, but last week his leave to appeal to the Supreme Court was turned down.
Mr President, I would like to say - in relation to your intention to deal with the agenda in a moment - that it really does seem inadequate to dedicate only one of the items on the agenda for the debate on topical and urgent subjects to the situation in Madagascar.
Mr President, this is a question of respect for human rights.
Mr President, on 24 April, during the Brussels part-session, our fellow Member, Mr Jean-Marie Le Pen was prevented from holding a press conference inside the European Parliament; two of our fellow Members were hit in the face by a pie.
Well then, I am not, of course, defending Mr Le Pen, who I expect is quite capable of defending himself; I am not, of course, saying that I support or do not support his political ideals - if there is anyone in this Parliament who can be counted on to vote differently from the rest of the House it is precisely the radical Members - but that this is a question of upholding Parliament's dignity.
As rapporteur, I support these additions, which are also partly my own.
As far as public access to the staff list is concerned, I take the view that this will, moreover, need to be in line with the Bureau's decision of 11 June 2001, in other words Members and staff will need to take it upon themselves to add their names to the public list.
Restrictions that do not comply with the Regulation, however, cannot be accepted, because otherwise the European Court of Justice will be instructing us to add to the list again and Parliament will have lost face.
In general, public access to third-party documents still poses a major problem, because in this respect, particularly the Commission and the Council are more rigid than required.
In fact, Member States that still have no proper legislation in the field of public access are urgently required to lay down legislation in this area themselves as soon as possible.
I therefore call on the Commission to produce a directive which obliges all EU Member States to apply more transparency and allow public access.
For instance, if I may cite the Lloyds of London petitions, one of the so-called Names was told that if he complained to Parliament or the Commission, then any financial compensation being paid to him by Lloyds could be withdrawn - a very serious threat indeed.
The British Government responded to the Commission's letter of intent on 30 April, the very last day available, but still the Commission and the British Government refused to allow Parliament or the petitioners to know their response.
Indeed, the exchange of information is the driving force behind the public debate in the media, public control and contributions by public organisations.
This is why we, as the European Parliament, have been fighting for some time for public access to documents - not only documents from the European Parliament, but also from the Council and the Commission.
I am speaking at a time when we in Europe should all be acutely aware of the importance and power of our democracy, but also of its vulnerability.
I would thank Maij-Weggen for her contribution, and I look forward to a fruitful cooperation, also in the follow-up phase on this score of providing information to citizens across Europe.
I hope that Parliament's employees in general will interpret all applications generously and that we shall soon have reports on how many applications are rejected.
Now we have the Internet and we can introduce this process in the European Parliament.
We can only hope that all the institutions agree that we should endeavour to create one single document register in which documents from all the institutions are indeed directly accessible for as long as possible, and in this way we really will be making decision-making more transparent.
I will tell you now that, tomorrow, together with 55 Members of all the political groups, we are going to table a resolution calling, not least, upon the members of the European Convention to introduce a Treaty reform enshrining the right of access to all the public meetings of our institutions in the Treaties: the right of access, including access via the Internet, to all the meetings and democratic instruments of the European Union.
If, today, you go into modern search engines, you find 223 000 examples of its German equivalent in less than ten minutes.
We all of us know that there is no democracy without transparency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission, like the European Parliament, generally attaches great importance to the transparency of its activities and therefore to the rules on access to documents laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001.
Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, turning to the specific issue which is the subject of this debate, the Commission welcomes and supports Parliament's initiative in relation to direct accessibility of documents.
In our opinion, this sufficiently guarantees both the objectives of Parliament and the Commission in the field of transparency and compliance with Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 in relation to which - as I pointed out before - we are already taking steps which go beyond what is required.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the tragic events of 11 September in the United States gave new impetus to the reinforcement of arrangements for aviation security.
The draft regulation itself was fairly straightforward and was amended at first reading.
However, the attached technical annex, based on the European Civil Aviation Conference, ECAC, Document 30, was not amended until second reading due to the fact that the high-level group had been updating the annex which was only finalised last November.
Whilst Parliament responded speedily to that challenge, and I thank colleagues from all parties for their support, we believe that this should not lead to a lower level of parliamentary scrutiny and reserve the right to amend in second reading the revised annex to this regulation adopted by the Council in its common position.
ECAC membership extends to 38 European States including all EU Member States.
Document 30 previously had been used for general guidance only.
The outcome of the Council of Transport last December was more than disappointing, as all the amendments supported by Parliament were rejected in the common position.
Nevertheless as rapporteur, I took a decision to re-table all amendments which had been adopted and shall touch on five areas which are fundamental to Parliament's position.
Firstly, Member States must assume responsibility for additional security costs in the light of the terrorist attacks and recognise their moral duty to protect their citizens.
Secondly, inspections of airports should be unannounced if airports are to be inspected in real operating conditions, as is currently the case in some Member States.
It should be said that some Member States already implement this measure.
History has shown us that, over the last 30 years in the vast majority of cases of terrorist acts, such as hijacking and incidents such as Lockerbie and 11 September, lax security measures and personnel who have had unfettered access in airports have played a significant part.
I am pleased to say that the majority of MEPs in committee overwhelmingly supported this amendment.
Fourthly, it is vital that, as is the current practice in IATA and ECAC, the aviation industry itself is involved in the implementation stage of this regulation, not least because it would ensure that measures are practicable and operationally viable.
Finally, we are all aware of the catastrophic effects of 11 September on the aviation industry and tourist sector.
Not only big businesses were affected, but thousands of small businesses as well.
This report is not the sole solution, but it is an enormous step in the right direction, providing that Member States recognise their obligation to protect their citizens by accepting their responsibility to contribute financially to these additional security measures and taking urgent action to restore public confidence, which would assist the aviation industry, the tourism sector and the European Union as a whole.
I would also appeal to the Commission too to tell the Council that we have done everything to reach an agreement with it.
Those who committed these criminal acts on 11 September were not airport or airline employees.
As has already been said here before, the Council, for its part, has not done its homework sufficiently well and has not considered or discussed Parliament's proposals at all thoroughly.
As you all know, less than a month after the tragic events of 11 September the Commission proposed, through this initiative, to toughen the security requirements applicable to civil aviation in a harmonised manner and, when this proposal was sent to Parliament and the Council, it was considered urgent to reach an agreement in relation to it.
Parliament agreed with this urgency and therefore acted by focusing on the main provisions of the Regulation and left aside the technical annex which was based on the work of a specialised body, the ECAC (European Civil Aviation Conference) and particularly on its document No 30 on air security.
Now that the text has been analysed in more detail, the Commission understands that the Committee on Transport is proposing 33 amendments to the common position.
I would like to stress something that I have said on other occasions, and that is that the Commission will always carry out its work as a mediator, seeking agreements.
Amendment No 16, which has the Commission's support, deserves a special mention.
The aim of the rapporteur's Amendment No 20 is to increase security.
The first is aimed at increasing the number of airports exempt from harmonised Community rules, by raising the threshold for the size of aircraft.
Since the Commission has not been provided with any indication of the number of additional airports which would be exempt from the Regulation if this amendment were adopted, we reject it, since it introduces a legally unknown situation.
We also reject Amendment No 13, which proposes delaying the entry into force of certain elements of the Regulation by twelve months, since all of the security rules in the Regulation are based on rules approved by the ECAC, which all the States of the Union belong to.
The Commission is sympathetic to these arguments - I would like to make this very clear - and in particular Amendment No 7 on the equitable funding of additional security costs.
But these amendments are not appropriate in this Regulation, and do not fall within the scope of Article 80 of the Treaty, which is its legal basis.
Therefore, the Commission formally rejects Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12, although it is willing to examine the issues raised from a broader point of view, including the need for greater organisation in the field of the funding of investments in air security.
The Commission and the European Parliament generally share a very similar position in this field.
Thank you Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
As long ago as the middle of 1999, I was appointed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market as rapporteur for the second reading of the directive concerning the distance marketing of consumer financial services.
In the explanatory statement forming part of my report, I provided a very comprehensive list of the points on which the directive has now been changed following the first reading in Parliament.
The right of withdrawal is now a general right and does not now exist only under specified conditions.
The consequences of withdrawal have also been determined in line with the European Parliament's requests at first reading.
Albeit by a narrow majority, the European Parliament opted at first reading for the concept of maximum harmonisation.
If, in theory, maximum harmonisation now forms the basis of the common position and the Member States can only apply additional regulations in specific, precisely defined cases, that seems to me to be the only realistic compromise.
In a legal environment in which, for example, we still do not have full harmonisation either in contract law or in the substantive European law governing financial services, no other decision can be made in this directive.
When it comes to all those of my fellow MEPs who, through their amendments, have signalled that they are not prepared to compromise and are insisting that maximum harmonisation and the country of origin principle be put fully into effect, I should like, finally, to appeal to them also to consider what would happen if we were to end up in a conciliation procedure in which we would probably not succeed in finding this politically very sensitive and very elusive balance.
We should then be very far, in terms both of content and of timescales, from the goals which, both independently and in conjunction with the Commission, we have set ourselves in the Financial Services Action Plan.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Klaus-Heiner Lehne, who is the shadow rapporteur for our group.
It was important for him to attend the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market that is taking place now.
It must be said that our group - and I hope many colleagues will agree with us - has tabled a number of crucial amendments to this directive.
We believe they reflect the overall balance of opinion in this House about the importance of maintaining an entirely consistent approach to our work in this absolutely crucial area, and a consistent approach to the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market in the areas of electronic commerce and in creating the internal market as a whole.
In the e-commerce directive we established the principle of country of origin as being crucial to e-commerce transactions.
The whole project of creating a single market - an internal market for financial services - is one of the most important projects we are working on at the moment in terms of meeting the Lisbon objectives and creating the sort of dynamic economy that we must have across the European Union.
The purpose of the directive is to set up a single legal framework for distance marketing of consumer financial services by supplementing existing sectoral regulations and plugging the gaps in the general directive on distance marketing of consumer goods.
The 14-day period represents a compromise between the seven days initially proposed by the Commission and the 30 days for which Parliament lobbied.
The exceptions to the principle of complete harmonisation can seriously hinder e-commerce because service providers are thus obliged to take account of provisions enshrined in the fifteen different legal systems.
This will be extremely detrimental to some institutions because the legislations are very different in the area of restrictions.
Furthermore, the demands for information that service providers must make available correspond very closely to Parliament's demands, and this and other things mean I am quite prepared, on behalf of my group, to appeal to Parliament not to commence legislative conciliation regarding this matter but adopt this common position, which in many respects is very satisfactory.
Mr President, it is very difficult to sum up this topic.
Politics may be the art of the possible, but if this way of going about things does not benefit the financial services sector nor the consumers, then I think that we should make a different choice.
In May 1992, the draft directive on the marketing of financial services was submitted.
This original draft included financial services; so it comprised all distance marketing plus financial services.
Parliament once again opted for incorporating financial services in this directive.
This minimum harmonisation will create a great deal of frustration within the market, as fellow MEPs have already pointed out.
I therefore call on you, all of us, to revisit very carefully the first reading of this proposal in Parliament - for which I happened to be rapporteur - and to vote on this proposal after all and also to present it to the Council after all.
I have understood that the Council too may have changed its opinion in the mean time.
And I have the feeling that a huge number of fellow MEPs, not only in this group, but also in other groups, will join me in voting out anything that is cloaked in minimum harmonisation, allowing us to start proper negotiations with the Council.
Every day, we see further progress in the development of distance financial services, and we see the positive and negative effects of this in terms of cost to the economy but also the risks to which consumers are exposed as a result.
The crucial point is clearly Article 3(4).
The objective that this proposal for a directive has in view - the guaranteeing of a high level of consumer protection in order to safeguard the free movement of financial services - means that the Member States should not be given the option of implementing other - perhaps more extensive - provisions in the areas harmonised by this directive.
At the same time, though, it combines these points with the advantage of the durability of a deed or contract, and the provision of legal certainty.
In these respects, as a whole, I see this as affording the consumer better protection where - as I have said - provision is made for this.
The directive complements and underpins the e-commerce directive by introducing an additional safety net of protection measures for consumers.
This directive also fits into a larger framework of legislative measures designed to open up the internal market for retail financial services.
Let me begin by addressing Amendments Nos 9, 10, 11 and 37 that expressed Members' concerns about the position of intermediaries in this directive.
As indicated by recital 19, this is not possible in the framework of a general and horizontal directive that applies to all financial services.
I shall now address the amendments that are unacceptable because they attack the core of the common position.
I shall begin by commenting on the alleged impact of Article 3(4) on the e-commerce directive and, in particular, the principle of country of origin.
Among these, Article 3(4) is central.
Amendment No 13 proposes deleting Article 3(4).
Article 3(4) provides indispensable clarification of an important aspect of the e-commerce directive.
It does not cover all the information provided before the contract is signed but not subsequently included in the contract itself.
Finally, the information contained in Article 3 must be communicated and addressed personally to the consumer.
Amendment No 3 proposes the deletion of the content of recital 9; Amendment No 5, a substantial change to recital 13.
Amendments Nos 26, 27 and 28 provide for the deletion of Article 4(2) to (4), and Amendment No 25 a fundamental change to Article 13.
The implementation period for the e-commerce directive expired in January this year.
To avoid this, recital 9 recalls that further convergence or harmonisation at a higher level of consumer protection is foreseen in a number of areas, as laid down in the Financial Services Action Plan.
The deletion proposed by Amendment No 5 would make the recital factually wrong.
The directive in certain places, such as in Article 10, leaves Member States some leeway with the harmonised framework.
Deletion of Article 4(2), as proposed in Amendment No 26 - although already rejected by the Committee on Legal Affair and the Internal Market - would prevent Member States from regulating information requirements, notably where no Community legislation existed at all and would in effect roll back important national consumer protection rules.
However, the imposition of any additional rules must conform with the transparency procedure laid down in Article 4(3), which has to be maintained, contrary to the suggestions made in Amendments Nos 27 and 28.
Amendment No 25 includes the deletion of the phrase at the end of Article 13 "where those operators are in a position to do so".
Finally, it is an exaggerated concern for the level of harmonisation to seek to transform the directive into a regulation as required by Amendment No 49 and to fix a date for end of transposition, even before the directive is adopted, as is suggested in Article 50.
Amendments Nos 6 and 8 carve out contracts concluded before a notary.
The consequence would be that intervention of a notary in a distance contract on financial services would deprive the consumer of central rights laid down in the directive, and this is clearly unacceptable.
These rights include information that only the supplier can give, for instance on the quality and risk of a product, protection in case of fraudulent use of cards and protection against unsolicited services and communications.
The effect of a mandatory exclusion of a right of withdrawal for mortgage credit, as contained in Amendments Nos 20, 22, 30 and 32, and the suppression of a right of reflection - Amendment No 31 - would be a substantial reduction of consumer protection in Member States.
Amendment No 12 seeks to introduce a specific definition of credit.
I understand this is to solve a problem with the transposition in one Member State of the general directive on distance contracts - Directive 97/7/EC.
Any problems relating to the general directive should be resolved in that context and not in this legislation.
Amendment No 15 introduces a sunset provision: a deadline after which a consumer may no longer invoke the right of withdrawal.
Amendment No 17 would exclude from the right of withdrawal contracts whose performance has begun with the consumer's consent, before the end of the withdrawal period.
In contrast this directive foresees that if a consumer withdraws he must pay for services actually rendered before the withdrawal.
Amendment No 17 would render Amendment No 7 meaningless.
However, this would contradict the European Parliament's position during first reading, when it voted in favour of the principles contained in this article.
Amendment No 23 on payment for services rendered confuses the respective obligations of consumers and suppliers.
A good example is an insurance contract.
I am not convinced of the need for Amendments Nos 24 and 48 on tacit renewal.
Amendment No 35 makes the rules on burden of proof mandatory.
Article 46 removes the need to obtain the consumer's explicit consent to receive a shortened list of information requirements in telephone communications and replaces this by a reference to the rules on confirmation of information.
The directive has been negotiated since 1998.
The debate is closed.
The existing directive is Directive 987 of 1980.
Instead, they can avail themselves of the provisions afforded in this insolvency directive.
It is a revision of a directive, which, in this case, means that two very important changes have been made, the substance of which we are satisfied with in any case.
The significance of this is obviously considerable, because, slowly but surely, we can see the impact this has on employees, not only in Spain, such as last year in the company Telefonica, but also in German firms, such as Holzman and Kirch.
In 2001, the number of unemployed in Europe rocketed on account of insolvency cases alone.
Accordingly, we had asked for this directive to be applied to a number of self-employed that had not been mentioned before, such as self-employed without staff, employees with a training contract, home workers, etc.
Eventually, it was agreed that the Commission will carry out a study into what are referred to as 'new forms of work and labour relations' in the Member States and the candidate countries alike.
I would once again like to thank the Council, the Commission and my fellow MEPs for the cooperation that has helped us avoid ending up in the follow-up procedure - the conciliation, and managed to reach sound agreements nevertheless.
Nevertheless, surely the possible is the enemy of the ideal and, now that we are so close to the 52nd anniversary of the date on which we can say that Europe began to be built, perhaps we should say that Europe is being built slowly, step by step, but we should also stress, Commissioner, that the social dimension is finally taking the place it deserves in this Europe we want to see.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur warmly on the excellent way in which he has handled this piece of work.
That, as he has said, depends upon a clear commitment from the Commission that a declaration will be included in that informal conciliation to cover the situation of economically dependent or subordinate workers - not a very elegant description, but we all know which workers are meant.
We all know the problem: full-time permanent workers, the core staff in many enterprises around the European Union, are becoming less and less numerous, with concentric circles of less formal employment relationships surrounding that core.
The Commission, as the rapporteur has said, must commit itself to completing the study it has under way, a joint hearing with Parliament and then legislative or other action to follow that hearing.
I had a recent example in my own constituency where a company called Viasystems registered offshore before declaring insolvency, thereby avoiding the application of certain aspects of insolvency law.
The subsequent Phoenix company which arose from the wreckage through a management buy-out shed over 500 jobs.
Those people were made redundant, some of them with more than 30 years' pension and other entitlements which they lost completely.
Parliament adopted the Bouwman report by a large majority at first reading.
The European Parliament responded positively to this initiative by the Commission because it rounds off the three basis reforming directives, the other two of which cover protection for employees from mass redundancies and during corporate restructuring and all of which aim to reduce the insecurity of workers as a result of structural changes.
This common objective cannot just be confined to these initiatives.
We are still left, however, with the ongoing difficulty of so-called self-employed workers who do not have the protection of social legislation which people covered by this amended directive will have.
I have realised that it would be impossible to have a positive product without the cooperation and the strong support of the members of the Committee of Employment and Social Affairs and I would like to thank all the members of the committee.
I believe that this excellent cooperation, not only in the Committee, but also between the three institutions, will soon lead to the final adoption of the insolvency directive, probably without the need for the conciliation procedure.
I am pleased to announce that the Commission is willing to accept all the amendments to the common position of 18 February in their entirety.
It takes the view that all the amendments which have been tabled supplement and improve the text of the common position.
The terms used most often are economically dependent workers or para-subordinate workers and persons who perform work similar to that of an employee.
At the same time, they are economically dependent in the sense that they depend more or less on just one client firm and are very often highly integrated into the internal organisation of the company.
It was clear that there was a need for further information about the phenomenon in all Member States.
But there are other forms of employment, to which I have already referred, that cannot be covered by this directive.
In order to take into account your concerns, and after our consultation with the social partners, I confirm that the Commission has launched a study which should provide an overview of the legal, social and economic position of economically dependent people in the 15 Member States.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tourism is one of the most important economic and social sectors of the European Union in terms of the wealth it generates, in terms of the jobs it creates and in terms of its essential contribution to preserving Europe's cultural and historical heritage.
I therefore congratulate Commissioner Erkki Liikanen and his staff on having given us this opportunity.
I also wish to thank the draftsmen of the opinions for this report for their contributions, the majority of which were voted for by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, thereby adding value to this report.
Many measures adopted by the Commission have been crucial to the development of tourism.
A new and very important step will be taken on 1 July of this year, when the 'euro' zone becomes the domestic market and electronic cards will mean that we could just as easily be in our own countries.
I think that this is a very important step in terms of European citizenship.
Lastly, I ask Parliament, in the Convention on the future of Europe that is now under way, to approve strengthening the legal base so that Europe can develop a genuinely strong tourism policy, which is what we need.
We are not looking for new Treaty competences.
In short, closer cooperation between all parties involved in order to make tourism more competitive and sustainable, appears to be a priority.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs believes that we need to use this advantage every way we can, at both European and national level.
To start with, the Member States should include specific commitments on employment in the tourist industry in their national employment action plans.
If these policies are to be effective, however, they need to be based on a proper study of the market and its present and future requirements.
Our committee also stresses the need to emphasise social tourism and calls on the European Commission to produce a communication on the various forms of social tourism and its importance in developing a European conscience among our European citizens and reviving the regions of Europe.
As Mrs Torres Marques rightly states, Europe remains the main tourist destination for third countries, despite facing increasingly stiff competition.
Nevertheless, the Treaties provide no specific legal base for a Community policy on tourism, despite the fact that our Parliament has been calling for such a policy for a considerable amount of time in order to give the Community major scope for intervention whilst respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
I welcome the efforts of the Commission, whose communication proposes an operational framework for European tourism as well as a range of measures and actions to be implemented by the various players involved.
I believe we need EU competence in the field of tourism, not only to enable tourism to develop in terms of staff and standards and give us a coherent and coordinated tourism policy, but also - and I thought the Conservative Group would have really taken this to their bosom - because the present scenario is holding back profit generation and the opportunities to make money in that sector.
Tourism contributes 5% of the EU's GDP.
Tourism is the industry of the future, and, as has been said here, Europe is still the world's largest tourist destination.
It is important that Europe's competitiveness and its appeal in the tourist sector are increased through better coordination of different areas of policy, and more cooperation and networking.
In my opinion a reduction in VAT in the tourist industry is justified, but many members of our group take a wary view of matters of taxation, as they are largely the business of the Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to congratulate Mrs Torres Marques on her magnificent work.
Today, tourism is one of the most important sectors in the European Union and the absolute number one objective in certain regions in which tourism provides the majority of their gross domestic product and it is essential to the development and cohesion of these regions that they themselves also have significant common policies in other fields.
The lack of a legislative basis which would make this sector more operative and remove it from the field of unanimous decision-making within the Council will give impetus to this sector, which is in the hands of the large tour operators and completely outside the control of this House.
We therefore need decisions to be taken by qualified majority voting for tourism in the European Union.
The creation of a system of quality and efficiency indicators for tourism and the integrated management of the coastal areas within the field of policies at local, regional and national level must appear in a directive and not in a mere recommendation.
We therefore also need a common umbrella, a common policy and also common promotion for tourism in the European Union.
Mr President, this report is a one-sided report predicated on the need to develop the tourist product in the European Union, combat the decline in tourism in Europe and strengthen the common European tourism policy.
In keeping with what is now the Union's standard approach, the report also ties tourism to the Procrustean bed of the laws of the market and competition in order to accommodate the interests of big business in the tourist sector, thereby dealing a mortal blow to small and medium-sized - and especially small - businesses in the industry.
Recent events in aviation have illustrated this.
Not only measures aimed at tourism, but also at activities of other kinds must prevent unilateral dependence on tourism in the regions concerned.
As far as the European Union is concerned, this means, in our opinion, that in the short term, particularly the synergy within the Commission deserves a boost.
Mr President, the Commission communication and the European Parliament report on tourism clearly demonstrate how far European competences can be extended, with no regard for subsidiarity whatsoever.
My starting point is the fact that the Treaty does not provide for Community competences in the field of tourism, since the matter is only mentioned once, in Article 2, which cannot be used as a legal base.
The report now before us even adds that with the attacks of 11 September having indirect consequences for tourism, a European tourism policy has become necessary in order to respond to the shock that was inflicted.
These arguments are interesting but none of them is central to deciding whether such a policy should be implemented at Community level.
In fact, Article 5 of the EC Treaty lays down only one criterion.
The second is that obviously we should welcome the European Commission's communications on tourism, but we also need to say to Commissioner Liikanen that they are not enough.
The third point I want to comment on is the famous legal basis for tourism.
We therefore need a legal basis which will not be a substitute for national policy but, on the contrary, will help us adopt a policy with added value at European level and, in the final analysis, will help Europe stand up to international competition.
The schools were only shut for two days and the number of new cases quickly petered out.
This sector is the main activity in these regions in terms of the wealth it creates and makes a major contribution to the task of bringing these areas closer to the more developed regions of the European Union.
It is, therefore, crucial to recognise the value of the role played by tourism and the potential for economic development that it represents.
The challenges are those that have been mentioned by the Members: there was September 11 and, on a more general note, we are faced with the question of the competitiveness of the tourism sector, whose dimensions have changed; there is a problem of training; there is a problem of environmental sustainability.
The Commission in general can go along with the draft report.
After the ratification of the Nice Treaty, a qualified majority will be sufficient for supporting measures in the context of Article 157 of the Treaty to increase the competitiveness of European industry and, therefore, of tourism enterprises.
Secondly, the need for a better promotion of Europe as a tourism destination.
The Commission agrees with the Parliament report that more should be done to promote Europe as a safe and attractive set of tourist destinations.
It is true that in this Council Decision there is no basis for this and it will be difficult - unanimity is needed - to amend it, in order to open it to the public.
Finally, I would like to mention that the informal ministerial meeting organised by the Spanish presidency in Santander on 4 May was followed the day after by a seminar attended by major public and private stakeholders.
It is very encouraging to note the attention the European Parliament continues to give to tourism and that it agrees largely with us.
This will facilitate our work in attaining the objectives described in the Communication, and in implementing these and other actions which could promote sustainable and competitive tourism in Europe.
In conclusion, although many of you favour a more ambitious approach, I consider that this process has been particularly successful.
The next important step in this cooperative approach in EU tourism issues will be the first European Tourism Forum that the Commission is organising with the industry and other stakeholders on 10 December this year, to which all the European private and public stakeholders, including representatives of the European Parliament, will be invited.
I am sure that much work remains to be done to convince the European public and decision-makers of the vital role of tourism for employment and growth perspectives in our continent.
Tourism deserves our attention, and we must coordinate different policies as well as possible to promote the future prospects of European tourism.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to thank the staff for their excellent work and assistance in drawing up this report, and also those responsible in the Commission for their willingness to help on this matter and, above all, I would like to show my appreciation for the impressive desire for dialogue shown by my fellow members in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which has enabled us to draw up this report with several important proposals that have been reached by consensus.
The Tempus programme - or, in this specific case, the extension of the scope of the Tempus programme proposed by the Council - should be seen as part of a strategy seeking to bolster dialogue and understanding between the peoples and cultures of the European Union and the Mediterranean.
As you are all aware, the Tempus programme takes its inspiration from the chain of events that have taken place since the fall of the Berlin wall in 1989.
In 1993 it was extended to include the New Independent States such as Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Moldova and the Russian Federation, amongst others.
The second phase of this trans-European cooperation scheme for higher education affected a total of thirteen partner countries for a four-year period and since 1997 the Central and Eastern European countries preparing for accession have gradually been abandoning the Tempus programme to take part in Socrates, the Community's general education programme.
However, the Council decision was amended to extend the life of Tempus II for a further two years.
This report is evidence of Parliament's firm support for the Commission's proposal to extend the Tempus programme to the MEDA partners and is in line with the policy of supporting closer cooperation with this region that was adopted in the conclusions of the Euro-Mediterranean ministerial conference held in Barcelona and the recent conference in Valencia.
Article 5 of the decision on Tempus III also provides for equal opportunities.
We have further strengthened this approach in the new text.
The Commission shares the desire of Parliament and the Council to adopt the decision in the shortest possible timeframe.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish first to thank all those who have contributed to this White Paper giving European youth policy a new impetus, and in the production of which a unique consultation process has involved thousands of young Europeans.
The political parties also have a great responsibility and should involve young people to a greater degree, encouraging them to take up political office.
The White Paper on youth policy can only be a first step, a first and important step set in motion by the Commission in order to establish contact with many young people and with actors.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by means of the White Paper 'A new impetus for European Youth', the Commission has presented us with a comprehensive outline of the European Union's youth policy for the future.
The proportion of the EU's overall population between the ages of 65 and 90 will rise from 16% to 21% between 2000 and 2020, whilst that of 14 to 24-year-olds will be as low as 11%.
After all, the present system of European cooperation on youth issues has been stretched to its fullest extent and can no longer cope with the problems that have to be tackled.
The new White Paper on youth policy is meant to point the way towards a new kind of European cooperation in the youth sphere.
Mr President, Commissioner, the way the age structure of the population is developing everywhere in Europe means that today's youth will really have to carry the burden of responsibility for tomorrow.
The quality of youth policy in the Member States can be improved through European cooperation.
Although the majority of young people in Europe are doing well, youth unemployment and exclusion have become permanent social phenomena.
Young women must be promoted in every respect, as women still do not have the same opportunities as men in the labour market.
The unemployment rate is higher in Europe for women and women earn on average less than their male colleagues.
I am glad that the fight against racism is given an important place in the White Paper.
The White Paper really does give all us politicians, at both European and national level, the opportunity to take stock of our responsibility in the light of this objective.
If we are honest with ourselves, then we have to admit that we have neither the frame of mind nor the practices needed for our young people to prepare to become proactive citizens in their national and local societies and tomorrow's responsible European citizens.
Be daring in your initiatives, Commissioner, the European Parliament is right behind you.
However, as Parliament has made very clear, a new impetus is all well and good but we still need concrete measures.
The ball is now in the Council's court.
The forthcoming Council of Ministers meeting on 30 May will enable us to determine the will of the Member States to push forward this matter whilst observing the subsidiarity principle, which is respected by the Commission in this policy.
The proposed new framework of cooperation is based, on the one hand, on applying the open method of coordination in the field of youth policy and, on the other hand, on taking greater account of young people in the various European policies, over and above those of the youth programme.
I will involve Parliament and I also insist that Parliament declare itself competent whenever youth policy is discussed, whether in areas for which I am responsible or in areas which are the responsibility of other commissioners.
Your proposal to hold an information week on the activities of young people is an excellent idea.
Lastly, I fully support the proposal to take into account the situation of young women in all the aspects which concern young people, not only here in Europe, but also in the relations that we have with third countries.
As I said, Mr President, the next milestone in the process of translating the policies proposed in the White Paper into concrete measures will be 30 May, the meeting of the Ministers for Youth.
Mr President, I am extremely pleased to note that everyone is helping to give a new impetus to youth policy.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
I wish the Council would get a move on, as we had to, and get its common position out by 31 May.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 2004 will be the European Year of Education through Sport.
Sport has been since time immemorial a favoured, successful and effective means of influencing, in a fundamentally positive way, educational policy and the educational values that underlie our life together in society.
The Commission is proposing a total of EUR 11.5 million to finance it, EUR 3.5 million of which are to be paid towards operational expenditure in 2003, the year when preparations for it get underway, and EUR 8 million in 2004.
The decision on the European Year of Sport is the right one, but it is continuity that brings success.
This investment in our future will pay dividends, for our young people are our future!
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and also the Commission on having been able to overcome the obstacles it always faces so that this Parliament can address issues relating to sport.
I would like to emphasise two points on the reasons why I think this report is so important.
The second point I would like to emphasise is that we should not forget that we are living in a Europe in which differences based on race and culture are growing every day, and that we all have to make an effort to integrate into the European Union.
Sport plays a fundamental role in this integration.
I hope that 2004, European Year of Education through Sport, will be the driving force we all need to be able to ensure the inclusion in the Treaty of an article that makes specific reference to sport, and for this programme to be the starting point, and only the starting point, of what sport can achieve in the European Union.
Sport is a very important factor in social and economic policy.
It worked, and the same thing can also - must also - work in sport.
You should not be restricting movement, but encouraging it.
Sport at school is an excellent way of teaching children all kinds of human values, such as fair play, team spirit and tolerance; sport can even play a role in creating solidarity and understanding for your fellow human beings, and this is more than ever essential.
The Year of Education through Sport should concentrate on the social inclusion aspect of sport.
The momentum provided during 2004 must carry on beyond 2004 - it should not stop there.
All sports should be included, not just the mainstream sports - and we need to emphasise this throughout the programme.
It is also important to link projects started under the European Year of Disability in 2003 with sporting projects for the disabled in 2004.
I thank the rapporteur for an excellent initiative and look forward to participating in the development of the projects throughout the year.
To start work on a dossier in 1995 or 1996 and to still be working on it today could really be called fighting for a cause.
If I may, this evening, I would like to bring together these two concerns and discuss both equal opportunities and sport.
In the Mediterranean countries, for example, in Iran or in Algeria, women achieve emancipation through sport.
Sport is therefore an important factor in emancipation.
I hope, Mrs Reding, that these considerations regarding women and sport will be of interest to you.
These institutions should contribute to this action in a coordinated fashion, contributing synergies, which is the most important thing.
It is always better to call things by their right name.
Unquestionably, sport is also of educational importance, as the report mentions.
At the same time they are being offered something meaningful to do and social problems and exclusion are being prevented.
Lastly, it is of symbolic importance, because 2004 is an Olympic year.
Not simply because the idea was conceived here, in Parliament, but also because the Commission has always had the firm support of Members to place the ideas and values of sport on the education agenda.
First of all, Amendment No 7, which designates three specific sporting events in addition to the Olympic Games in Athens.
Not only do I want to ensure that the text of the decision makes such projects possible but I also want to do everything possible, Mrs Pack, so that our partners, both schools and the Olympic committees, take the initiative as part of this European Year.
On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, with your help, I think that, during the European Year of Education through Sport, we will find many associations, many bodies, many volunteers who are willing to help us.
That is why I hope, Mr President, that Parliament will make every effort to reach a political agreement with the Council as soon as possible, in order to adopt a common position before the end of the Spanish Presidency, which is what the Presidency really wants.
It would certainly benefit the idea that, back in 1996, Mrs Pack proposed and desired; in other words, to place sport and its social and educational dimension in the limelight for the good of Europe, for the good of our societies.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
