Undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) (recast) (debate) The next item is the report by Wolf Klinz, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) (recast) - C6-0287/2008 -.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in July 2008 the European Commission presented its proposal for a revision of the existing Directive on Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCITS), thus providing the basis for what we are debating today.
The UCITS Directive has been amended twice in the past, and on this occasion too, the Commission has tackled the revision with great care.
This will facilitate the adoption of UCITS IV modifications in a single reading.
Parliament and Council have adjusted the Commission's proposal on mergers, master-feeder-structures, fund notification and key investor information, but the high-level ambitions set by the Commission in its original proposal was fully respected.
On the subject of the management company passport - which became an important part of the proposal - initially at the time of the adoption of the proposal, the Commission had serious concerns about the potential negative impact that an insufficiently prepared management company passport would have for the security and retail investors placing their money in UCITS funds.
The success of the management company passport depends on our ability to deal with some remaining complex issues, like risk management via Level 2 measures.
In June 2007, the assets managed in UCITS represented EUR 6 000 billion and UCITS accounted for around 75% of the investment fund market in the European Union.
The changes made in 2001 opened new investment areas for UCITS but they left behind several bottlenecks.
It is still the case that the debates and discussions in the Council and Parliament have never been totally free, as the result was known in advance: for some players it was essential, at any cost, to introduce the European passport for management companies.
It is also the case with the agreement on the Level 2 measures that the Commission has been asked to adopt by July 2010 without fail.
Ireland would not be in the monetary union and Ireland's economic position would be as bad as Iceland's.
Mr Klinz and the Commission have done a good job and I happily support this report and the proposed revision.
UCITS are a vital part of the European - and, yes, of the Scottish - investment management industry.
One of the aims in revising this directive is to organise, in these conditions, an internal market in UCITS which really works.
We are all awaiting, on the initiative of President Barroso, the results of the working group led by Jacques de Larosière.
Member States will also have the task of transposing this new set of rules - Level 1 and Level 2 - altogether before the summer of 2011.
The Commission, and we here in Parliament too, have deliberately chosen not to raise the issue of fund processing at all, because we are working on the assumption that the industry will keep its promise to deal with this matter on its own, without legislative pressure.
In conclusion, I would like to thank not only the Commission but also, and in particular, the Council for their cooperation and for their active support.
