&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 12 May 2005. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by informing you that, within the context of our interparliamentary relations, a delegation from the Knesset chaired by Mrs Naomi Blumenthal, Chairperson of the Delegation for Relations with the European Parliament, is visiting the European Parliament.
I hope that the meetings you have held with Members of the European Parliament have been fruitful, Mrs&#160;Blumenthal, and that, by means of better reciprocal information, they can contribute to highlighting the conditions necessary for a fair and lasting peace amongst all the parties involved in the conflict between the Israeli and Palestinian people. &#160;&#160; I must point out that last week two of our Members of Parliament were amongst a group of Europeans who were detained at the Havana airport and were not allowed to enter the country, in which they had arrived on tourist visas with a view to attending the ‘Assembly to promote civil society’.
I have raised this issue with the Cuban authorities, but I also believe that I must tell you that the recipient of the European Parliament’s Sakharov Prize Mr Payá&#160;– has been very critical of the said meeting, which he has described as a great fraud against the opposition.
It is no weakness to be courteous, but I believe that we should all seek the best possible information about the political events that we attend.
These amendments, which appear in the corrigendum that has been distributed, are as follows: The first debate of the afternoon will be the debate on the motion of censure against the Commission.
We have a major problem not only with translations, but also with interpreting, and often have problems with deadlines if reports of this kind cannot be translated and processed in good time.
The reason for its withdrawal, at the request of the rapporteur, is that it was not available in every language, as you have pointed out. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to amplify the point made by Mr Swoboda, as the report on the protection of minorities in an enlarged Europe has also been withdrawn from the agenda because translation was not completed.
I request that the debate and the vote on the report on the protection of minorities in an enlarged Europe take place in the June I partsession in the presence of the Council. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Moraes.
Or perhaps it is truer that we have had to make way for the vote of censure today and therefore legislative business comes second in this regard.
It is clearly a problem for this House.
I hope that your services will take that into account when you next consider moving legislative items on the agenda. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I simply wish to protest against the amendment of the agenda.
I find this regrettable, as do many of my colleagues. &#160;&#160; I take note of your protest, Mrs Berès.
We will do everything we can to ensure that you do not have to protest again. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is not specifically about our agenda for this mini-session but a matter that affects our work generally and therefore the June I partsession.
The report by Mr Costa on the Protocol to the Agreement on sea transport between the European Community and China in view of the accession of new countries is withdrawn from the agenda since Parliament has not yet been consulted.
And the report by Mr Leinen on the revision of the Framework Agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the European Commission will be voted on after the reports voted on pursuant to Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. &#160;&#160; We shall proceed to the debate on the first item, the motion of censure presented against the Commission.
I must inform you that this motion of censure, presented on 12 May and announced in plenary, has been amended with regard to the list of Members presenting it, due to the fact that certain new Members have signed it and other Members have withdrawn their signatures.
It informed us that Mr Barroso had enjoyed a cruise aboard a luxury yacht owned by Spiro Latsis, who has done business with the EU institutions for many years, and whose Lamda shipyards, just one month after this holiday, received the green light from the European Commission for a tenmillioneuro grant.
We also learned that Mr Mandelson enjoyed a holiday with the lobbyist Peter Brown, and that he also went on a luxury yacht owned by the Microsoft cofounder, Paul Allen.
By ignoring my simple request and by maintaining that these free holidays do not constitute a conflict of interests, Mr Barroso has put himself in an unenviable position.
Mr President, with your permission and pursuant to Rule 141(4), I give way to my colleague, Mr Helmer, to put a question to me. &#160;&#160; One moment, please.
The leaders of the four big groups are so blinded by their belief in European integration that they simply cannot accept any criticism, particularly when it comes from dreaded eurosceptics like me.
In fact, there are plenty of people on this list who will vote ‘Yes’ to the Constitution and who believe in the European project.
I contend that this Parliament has failed and that it is the leaders of the four big groups who are in fact the guilty parties in this matter.
In that episode, and in this one, Mr Schulz will say ‘something must be done’ and, like the Grand old Duke of York, he marches his ten thousand men up the hill, only to get a phone call from Gerhard Schröder and march them back down again!
We also want the European Parliament to stand up and to do its job for once! &#160;&#160; Pursuant to Rule 141(4) of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Helmer may put a question to Mr Farage. &#160;&#160; Mr President, with your permission, I rise under Rule 141 to put a question to Mr Farage.
In fact, you know perfectly well that I am always available to the European Parliament.
I regard my availability as a sign of respect for your institution and of interest in its work and as part of a commitment to openness and transparency.
Our relations have never involved any sort of business dealings or interests, and I have no knowledge of any link between these friends and the Commission which could justifiably arouse suspicion of a conflict of interests.
The author of this motion of censure maintains that a few days on holiday among friends raises questions regarding a decision taken by the Commission authorising a payment of state aid in Greece and, in more general terms, regarding the Commission’s code of ethics.
With regard to the decision authorising the state aid in Greece, let me remind the House that it was taken by the previous college of Commissioners under Mr&#160;Prodi on the basis of a proposal made by Mr&#160;Monti at a time when I did not hold any position of responsibility in the Commission, which truly shows how unjust, unwarranted, unfounded and absurd is this motion of censure against the present Commission.
Besides, I must remind you that the incumbent college of Commissioners, at my behest and under my authority, has applied the most stringent set of rules on transparency and conflicts of interest ever to be adopted by any institution of the European Union.
The fact that the members of the Commission can have personal friendships – and, moreover, that the nature of these friendships is exactly the same before and after a Commissioner’s assumption of office and bears no relation to his or her appointment – does not equate to a conflict of interests and cannot be described as such.
This particular motion actually invokes essential values and concepts of democracy, such as ethical conduct and transparency, but it does so with a view to mystification on the basis of pure supposition.
I am sure that the overwhelming majority of this House thinks likewise and wishes to make that abundantly clear.
It is entirely legitimate to be more or less critical about the direction taken by the Commission or by the European Parliament.
The extremist approach adopted by the author of this motion is designed to obscure the issues rather than clarify them.
Let me reemphasise our openness to dialogue with this Assembly.
Let me also express once again our gratitude for the support and solidarity shown by the vast majority of you, and in saying that I am thinking particularly of those who do not always agree with me ideologically but who have nevertheless made a point of distancing themselves from this type of political manoeuvre against the Commission.
Those who have tabled this motion of censure have done so on the basis of Article 201 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and of Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure.
The Commission gave its approval for the project to which the motion refers on 23&#160;September, this House voted to express its confidence in the Barroso Commission on 18&#160;November, and the Commission took office on 22&#160;November.
So it is clear that the responsibility for the approval on 23&#160;September lay with the Commission under Romano Prodi.
This shows how absurd this motion is and how it lacks credibility.
The authors of the motion are not, in fact, concerned with José Manuel Durão Barroso as a person.
It is a personal vendetta, pursued with the improper purpose of bringing discredit upon the European institutions, and to do so only a few days before the referenda on the Constitution in France and the Netherlands.
Five Members belonging to the European Democrat element in this group signed this motion; they did so without informing, let alone consulting, the chairman of their national delegation or the Chairman of the group.
Let me say here and now that these five Members have placed themselves outside the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and no longer enjoy its solidarity.
A fortnight ago, in what was for me one of the high points of my political endeavours here in this House – an overwhelming majority of us faced up to Europe’s past and, by adopting the resolution on the 60th anniversary of the end of the Second World War, joined in a great majority decision to acknowledge the historic truth of Europe and set out on the road into the future.
In that case, Mr President of the Commission, I have to ask you whether he was with you in the Maoist youth movement, for if he were, that would make him the only Maoist billionaire in Europe.
With Members like the one you have just addressed in your group, Mr Poettering, you have no more need of political opponents.
The authors of this motion, or at least the brains behind it, are well aware of that, and so one has to ask why the motion was tabled in the first place.
The aim was that there should be cameras up there and crowds of people jostling one another in front of the entrance to this Chamber; it was that what is happening should happen.
Mr President of the Commission, you are entitled to have this House tell you what it expects of you and of your Commission.
My group has not always been satisfied in its dealings with this Commission, and you can take it as read that, if there are things to be criticised and objected to, we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament will do just that.
I speak on behalf of all the members of this group when I say that I am not prepared to allow defamation and insinuation to become a parliamentary strategy.
They presume to say ‘’, but neither Mr&#160;Farage nor Mr&#160;de Villiers is an Émile Zola – far from it!
Why, moreover, did they choose to make this move only a few days before the referenda in France and the Netherlands?
And if you had no contacts with industrialists, you would have as few friends as Mr Farage!
Liberals and Democrats will defend accountability and transparency in all of the European Union’s business.
We all know there is a case for greater transparency.
Under President Pat Cox, under President Borrell, through interinstitutional agreements with the Commission, we have made, and we continue to make, progress.
Members should beware that frivolous use such as this risks discrediting both the tool that Rule 100 gives us and this House.
As a recent election in the country I know best shows, when the views of the movers of this motion are presented openly, they get very, very little support.
They consider it to be inappropriate because President&#160;Barroso’s personal relations with Mr&#160;Latzis do not strike us as being relevant to the future of Europe.
I would prefer it if Members were more active in also dealing with this issue.
We believe that using the motion of censure does nothing to help the legitimate cause of greater transparency and responsibility from the Commission, and that it only serves to strengthen the opinion of those who, like Mr&#160;Farage, believe that the Union should simply be abolished.
That does not mean, however, that our political judgment on the work of the Commission and its President has changed.
Mr&#160;President, we take this opportunity to draw Mr&#160;Barroso’s attention to the fact that this is only the first and obvious consequence of the mistaken decision to keep Mrs&#160;Cruz in her role.
This situation is clearly a golden opportunity for machinations and insinuations, in addition to obviously greatly delaying and complicating the legitimacy of the proceedings taking place.
In addition, it is more than obvious that only complete transparency and a greater readiness to agree immediately to a debate can help prevent us from falling into these traps.
Do something in order that the people of Europe can acknowledge you and can acknowledge, alongside you, the complete legitimacy of the European plan. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the president of my group cannot be here in the House today, but he made his position clear in a letter published this morning.
If the aim of the motion is public clarification as regards a potential conflict of interests, then that aim is being achieved as we speak.
A number of members of my group put their names to this initiative, convinced that it would be a means of obtaining the necessary public explanations regarding the allegations that had been circulating and were consequently not expelled from our group, Mr Poettering.
On the other hand, if the intention was, or is, one of censure based on the President of the Commission’s holiday, or using the holiday as an excuse, then that is something that we wish to have nothing to do with.
The Leftwing opposition in this House is political in nature.
The promotion of transparency requires facts, rather than insinuation or obfuscation.
Ladies and gentlemen, we do not advocate a freeforall in the cause of promoting transparency; after all, people in glass houses should not throw stones.
If we were to table a motion of censure it would seek the truth and block those policies that hinder employment, rights and the desire for peace in this world. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, responsibility for today’s debate lies with those who did not allow us to have the debate last time.
Openness is the best tool honest people in power have for defending themselves against pressure from their own friends.
The new Commission is not responsible for the sins and scandals of the past, but it could demonstrate a new approach.
Every single action taken is not taken in an exclusive format or by one person, but goes through a host of motions and a series of individuals and organisations before a final decision is reached.
However, the reality is that they are trying to prevent positive action being taken, and to prevent real debate taking place on issues of concern to the people of Europe.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank President Barroso for coming to the Chamber.
I apologise for being a member of a Conference of Presidents which may have put you in the embarrassing position of thinking you would not have to come to the Chamber.
There is also the issue of the power exercised by lobbyists, for, in this House, in contrast to the USA, there is a great lack of transparency where they are concerned.
Not least as one who has been a journalist for many years, I object to such accusations.
Your statements, Mr President of the Commission, put you on the wrong side of the debate.
The fundamental problem is precisely that; this attitude of withdrawal, this no longer comprehending what is at issue, when what is at issue is the ideals of the EU.
Like many others, I am in favour of Europe, but not of this EU and its abusive practices.
Stick to what you said a fortnight ago, and then we will not have to say .
In fact, all of the groups, except the one that initiated this motion of censure, have rejected the terms of the motion, and I thank them for that.
I do believe they have all helped us, in the European institutions, to send an unmistakable signal of our determination to distinguish clearly between democracy and demagogy.
There remains one substantive and serious question to be answered, and for all those who are committed, as I am, and as all the members of my Commission are, to the principle of transparency, I should like to spell out our position precisely.
I then said to President Borrell that it is perhaps useful to recall that the Commission proposed an agreement to create an advisory group on standards in public life back in November 2000, which would have covered the European Parliament, the Council, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, as well as the Commission.
That proposal is still on the table and the Commission is of course ready to discuss it with the other institutions.
Ladies and gentlemen, I want it to be clearly understood that the Commission is ready to work constructively with all of you for transparency, good governance and proper accountability within our institutions.
I therefore thank all the political groups for having drawn this distinction today between demagogy and democracy and for having contributed in this way to the realisation of our European ideal. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We put a number of questions to the Commission during the hearings, where we were promised information about the expert groups.
The reasons behind this motion of censure, however, had nothing to do with opposition to such policies.
We therefore do not endorse this motion of censure, although we are ready to back motions of censure against the Commission’s appalling policies. &#160;&#160; I have listened to the debate on the motion of censure with increasing disbelief.
The issue at stake here is not who lodged the motion or the motives of the Independence Democracy Group, it is about whether the Commission President is under a duty to answer questions asked of him by members of this house.
This fourth framework agreement between the Commission and Parliament embodies a culture of cooperation in which the role of each institution is respected, whilst at the same time an effort is also made to deepen mutual understanding and cooperation.
This is the fourth agreement between the Commission and Parliament.
This agreement, too, takes us another few steps further down this road, and so I should like to thank the Conference of Presidents and, in particular, VicePresident Wallström and everyone else who played a part in bringing about this framework agreement.
Let me mention some of the key aspects of this fourth framework agreement.
The President of the Commission is responsible for the steps to be taken if Commissioners are involved in conflicts of interest, and for any decisions that need to be taken.
There are also clear provisions concerning the procedures to be followed when one Member leaves the Commission and is replaced by another, and indeed there were long drawnout negotiations on this point.
I see that we have managed to ensure that the Commission and Parliament will agree in advance on annual legislative programmes and multiannual programming, and that the Commission will not make public any legislative or other significant initiatives before notifying Parliament.
We will be kept fully informed at every stage of the legislative process, and at the same time as the Council.
The Commission has also agreed to provide information on the composition and work of its expert groups, at the request of the relevant committee.
Furthermore, the agreement contains several provisions concerning Parliament’s position at international conferences.
We would have preferred it to have covered other areas as well, but it would appear that we will have to wait until the next stage of the process for this to happen.
Furthermore, Members have expressed a desire for the framework agreement procedure to become more transparent in the future, and for the relevant parliamentary committees to be involved somewhat earlier in the process.
Since my investiture as President of the Commission, I have been telling you of my intention to establish constructive collusion and a sustainable strategic partnership with Parliament.
An undiscerning observer might have concluded that the desire for cooperation proclaimed by myself, by Margot Wallström and by the whole Commission reflected nothing more than our intention to avoid any further friction.
In fact, the desire for cooperation by which we are driven results from an appreciation of the institutional reality of our Union.
No other supranational organisation can rely on such an advanced degree of democracy as the European Union; no other multinational structure has assigned such an important role to the directly elected representatives of the people; no territory in the world except our continent, reunited at long last, has an institution that represents four hundred and fifty million people at the present time.
We are proud of this profoundly democratic character of the Union, which reflects the historical traditions of its Member States.
This revision has taken place in a climate of excellent cooperation under the direction of the political authorities of both institutions.
I wish to take this opportunity to thank President Borrell, the heads of the political groups, Mr&#160;Leinen, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and all those who have contributed to this exercise, which is such an important milestone in the history of our bilateral relations.
We have agreed on a wellbalanced text which meets the expectations of both parties and substantially improves cooperation between our institutions.
Firstly, we have enhanced the political dialogue between our institutions.
Together with VicePresident Wallström, I will on a regular basis attend the meetings of the Conference of Presidents, which will become the main forum for discussing political developments as well as the work and activities of the Parliament and the Commission.
Furthermore, the timetable for the Commission’s legislative and work programme has been streamlined, and the process leading to the Commission’s legislative and work programme has become more political.
In this context, Margot Wallström met the Conference of Committee Chairs in February, and will do so again in July.
The Commission commits itself to providing Parliament with a full list of the expert groups assisting us in the exercise of our right of initiative.
In addition to this, the chairpersons of the relevant Parliamentary committees may ask the Commission to provide information on the activities and composition of these groups.
When taken in conjunction with the existing rule on transparency relating to the ‘comitology groups’, this new provision is a very useful step.
It ensures that the Commissionersdesignate disclose all relevant information in accordance with the duty of independence laid down in the Treaty itself.
In such cases the Commission President will give Parliament’s deliberations all the political attention they deserve.
If new Commissioners are appointed during the mandate of the Commission, I will ensure, together with the President of the Parliament, that they present themselves immediately to Parliament.
My fourth point concerns the improvement of our cooperation regarding the negotiation of international agreements and other aspects of our daytoday work.
We have deepened our cooperation in the field of Community election observation missions.
Finally, we will act within the framework of the existing treaties and safeguard the competences of the other institutions, particularly the Council.
While the Commission attaches great importance to our cooperation with Parliament, one should not forget that the Community method is based on a triangle.
The Commission is responsible for proposing legislative and budget proposals, and the two branches of the legislative and budgetary authority are responsible for deciding on these.
This is the only possible legal way to change the current situation.
I wish to stress that our proposal is based on the existing Treaties and could be adopted without waiting for the entry into force of the Constitution.
The Commission continues to attach considerable importance to this proposal.
An internal assessment is currently taking place in the Commission to ensure effective and coherent application of these rules.
As regards providing information to Members of Parliament on the occasion of negotiations on international agreements, the solution found in the revised framework agreement is the only one possible due to the legal context.
The latest integrated guidelines, which will be endorsed by the European Council in June, cover a period of three years.
From our point of view, this implies that in 2006 and 2007 the next integrated guidelines will have to be updated rather than drastically modified.
For the next guidelines, the Commission will have to analyse not only contributions from the Member States but also data and statistics which are normally available only in December or even in January.
In conclusion, I believe that our debate today paves the way for reinforcing constructive relations between Parliament and the Commission.
It will be our common responsibility to translate it into concrete facts.
I am sure that our two institutions will implement it carefully and loyally.
I am deeply convinced that it will not be only our two institutions that will benefit from the new agreement: the Union as such will benefit from increased cooperation between Parliament and the Commission.
Europe needs a strong European Parliament exercising its powers.
I believe that Mr Leinen and VicePresident Wallström have laid out the characteristics of this fourth Framework Agreement, and I am not therefore going to deal with the specific issues that they have explained so well.
The history of this Parliament is the history of an assembly that wants more power, a consultative assembly, a Parliament elected by universal suffrage, then a Parliament with certain competences in the field of the internal market, a Parliament with codecision powers pursuant to the Maastricht Treaty and, since then, a Parliament which has been playing an increasingly significant role in legislation and political control, and that is extremely important.
I am therefore sure that this Framework Agreement is in line with the new European Constitution, which will provide more democracy, more efficiency and more transparency, and that it will achieve those objectives in that same way.
With regard to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, this agreement concerns us in three respects.
In the view of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, implementation of the Lamfalussy process is acceptable only if it operates in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement that we drew up during the previous Parliamentary term, which makes it possible to take full account of the position of the European Parliament to the same extent as the deliberations of the Council.
My final point relates to the implementation of the new Lisbon Strategy and the way in which this Parliament is involved in the adoption of ‘employment’ guidelines and broad economic and monetary policy guidelines.
It strengthens the political accountability of the Commission to Parliament, especially through the commitment of President Barroso that we see in clause&#160;3 with respect to a loss of parliamentary confidence in an individual Commissioner.
With this revised framework agreement, the Commission itself becomes much more parliamentary in character than it has been in the past.
My group will be voting in favour of this fourth framework agreement, which it sees as strengthening dialogue and reinforcing the legitimacy of both institutions.
Agreements of such a kind can hardly be entered into by secretariesgeneral without reference to the relevant committees, without a political mandate and without the agreements being published.
I believe, Mr President, that not least the group leaderships should give consideration to a change of method, and, since we want to give added force to the requirement for transparency among ourselves, we should also require the same transparency of the process whereby interinstitutional agreements come into being.
This amounts to a serious lack of transparency, and I would ask you in strong terms to make all the existing interinstitutional agreements public. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today in this House we have an illustration of the deficiency in the current procedures, with a motion of censure being necessary to try to extract information sufficient to meet suspicions about potential conflicts of interest.
I was delighted to see that this Decision includes a reference to the European Constitution in its second citation, even though the Constitution is not yet a binding document.
The second issue I should like to address relates to the status of Commission experts and expert groups.
I should like to say to Mr Allister that this agreement is based on the existing Treaties.
I hope for a positive vote tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
It goes without saying that these relations have a particularly important place in the European Union’s external relations, a place that has become even more important since the enlargement of the EU.
Of course, the negotiations on the four road maps specifically identifying cooperation in these four spaces encountered some difficulties, given that their aim was to reorganise all of our relations by adopting hundreds of operational points that now need to be implemented.
By agreeing, in Moscow, on an overall package including road maps for the four spaces, Russia and the European Union have succeeded in reaching a new stage in relations between them, namely the implementation of a true strategic partnership as decided upon in May&#160;2003 at the Saint Petersburg summit.
Russia expressed its wish for greater cooperation in the energy sector, which moves in the direction of our own interests.
It is presenting itself as a reliable partner for the European Union in this sector, as in others, and it has committed itself to implementing the Kyoto Protocol, even if it is threatening at the same time to withdraw if the system is not reformed by 2012.
These discussions show that the subject of global warming and the Kyoto Protocol, and particularly what will follow the Kyoto Protocol, is vitally important and we must therefore pursue this line of dialogue with the Russians.
Despite the lack of specific results on this point at the summit, the European Union still views it as extremely important to reach a speedy conclusion to negotiations with the Russians with a view to signing an agreement relaxing, on the basis of strict reciprocity, the conditions for issuing shortstay visas, and also a readmission agreement.
This latter point is vital for the EU and there can be no relaxation in the visa requirements without a parallel readmission agreement.
This is therefore a matter that must be developed continuously and a subject on which dialogue with the Russians must be actively pursued.
I am also pleased that, on 18&#160;May, the Russians signed the agreement fixing the border with Estonia.
With regard to the space of external security, we agreed with the Russians during the summit that closer cooperation should make it possible to work together to reach a peaceful conclusion to what are known as ‘frozen’ conflicts affecting our common neighbourhood or, rather, to use the wording that was finally used in the conclusions, ‘the regions adjacent to Russia and the European Union’.
In this context, I am thinking, amongst other things, of the Transnistrian conflict in the Republic of Moldova.
Adoption of the wording ‘adjacent regions’ enabled us to overcome the initial reservations that Russia expressed on this subject and I think that both the European Union and Russia have much to gain from our cooperation in this region of the world where any developments have direct repercussions for Russia and the EU.
It is also stipulated in the joint road map that all cooperation processes must be based on the sovereign decisions of States and the text clearly recognises and I think that this is one of the most important points that the European Union and Russia share the same common values.
It is therefore those common values, including respect for sovereign rights, and also respect for human rights and for the principles of the rule of law, that must guide the development of our relations with Russia.
Let me take this opportunity to say a word about our common interests concerning the fight against terrorism: the fight against terrorism must be based on these values and on respect for the rule of law.
The space of research, education and culture is an important space where the people of Russia and Europe can meet and forge closer links, because we have a common cultural and historical heritage.
With this great country, which also holds the key to the stability of our continent, we need to build a longterm trusting relationship based, I would stress again, on democratic principles, on just those values that must characterise the construction of this greater Europe that we want just as much as they seem to.
In so doing, we cannot ignore the fact that we must also engage in a tough but constructive dialogue on issues of human rights, on issues to do with the freedom of the press, and on other humanitarian issues arising in particular in regions such as Chechnya.
This dialogue has been launched, particularly on human rights.
Since the EU was enlarged just over a year ago, our powerful neighbour in the east, Russia, has become more and more important to us.
The country has been a strategic partner for a long time, and we share many challenges and tasks that require cooperation and common solutions.
Trade, the environment, energy and the fight against terrorism and organised crime are just a few of the areas concerned.
The PresidentinOffice of the Council, Mr&#160;Juncker, said that the EU and Russia had still not embarked upon their honeymoon but that there was true love between the two.
We are dependent upon each other, but relations have been strained and cooperation made more difficult by internal developments in Russia that have seen a decline in human rights and democracy under Putin.
There is still extensive corruption, and there seems to be no end to the atrocities in the bloody conflict in Chechnya.
Putin and the EU also have different views of developments in the neighbouring countries.
The situation in our common neighbourhood has in many ways been gratifying.
In Ukraine and Georgia, people have turned away from authoritarian regimes and instead chosen democracy, openness and renewal.
The people of those countries want democracy and see the EU, and not Russia, as a model for the future.
The common policy places very strong emphasis upon values such as democracy and human rights but, when individual Heads of Government meet Putin, the common values tend to end up very far down on the agenda.
In the report we are discussing, the Committee on Foreign Affairs is critical of some aspects of the way in which Russia’s domestic politics have developed and thinks that the EU must be clear.
The conflict in Chechnya can only be resolved politically.
No one denies the terrible acts committed in Russia – I am thinking, for example, of the massacre in Beslan – but these do not justify the atrocities in Chechnya and the unwillingness to put the soldiers responsible on trial.
There is no alternative to active cooperation, but we need to focus on a number of practical areas of cooperation in which the EU and Russia both benefit from results.
Quality, and not quantity, should be the determining factor behind this work, and the issues relating to democracy must never cease to be integrated.
The EU must convince Russia that economic development and trade go hand in hand with modernisation, a functioning legal system and democratic reforms.
We hope that, together, we shall find a solution to the conflict in Transnistria and that the Russian troops will be withdrawn from Moldova and Georgia.
The EU and Russia will only ever be able to achieve a true partnership if it is based on the defence of democracy.
The last summit meeting in November was more difficult and we were far from coming to an agreement, whereas through the many individual negotiations that we conducted we finally achieved our result in the four areas: the economy; freedom, security and justice; external security; and research and culture.
More importantly, we confirmed that the EURussia relationship is based on common values – and I am glad that President Putin himself mentioned that – including respect for human rights and democracy, the rule of law, and a free market economy.
President Putin, in a speech he gave in the Duma, very clearly mentioned that, and we are encouraged by this as also by the human rights dialogue that we had with Russia, which was a very frank and open dialogue where all these questions were raised and discussed.
In the economic sphere, I very much welcome your emphasis on our common interest in seeing Russia become a real partner with an open, dynamic, intensified economy and also – this is equally important – a transparent judicial system.
This will be at the forefront as Russia comes closer to WTO membership and, as you said, we all support that because we think this is the direction that has to be taken and which will start to create a real common economic space.
We also ensured that energy cooperation and the Kyoto Protocol are very high on the list of priorities in our roadmap.
I believe that the agreement on both issues is within reach and we should aim to conclude it as soon as possible.
Our aim would be the next summit in October.
The Commission and the Member States remain convinced – we said so clearly and it was part of our difficult negotiations until the very end – that the simultaneous implementation of the two agreements is essential.
We have to create a new climate there and we also want to do a lot on the question of technical support.
This is also very important for a future process designed to lead to reconciliation and to better social and economic conditions.
We have to continue our dialogue with the Russian authorities on this point.
Even if the four common spaces include the notion of adjacent regions, President Putin himself acknowledged that it is a common neighbourhood and we have to work within the common neighbourhood to make it a better, more stable neighbourhood for both of us.
Finally, let me underline the importance of our agreement on research, education and culture.
Your resolution rightly draws attention to the fact, as I said at the beginning, that Russia is an important strategic partner for us, and all the more so since enlargement.
I hope the success of our summit will enable us to strengthen relations on a now broadly agreed basis and in a coherent manner.
While drawing attention to violations of human rights or developments in democracy that we regard as undesirable, we should refrain from itemising what is going on in Russia and passing didactic judgment on each individual item.
It is important that this summit has brought concrete results, laying a foundation on which internal and external security may be established, economic cooperation guaranteed, and joint projects in research, education and culture facilitated.
What struck me as very important in today’s debate was what Commissioner FerreroWaldner had to say: if the whole thing is to work, Europe must speak with one voice.
In that case, it will not be acceptable for individual Member States – Germany, France or Spain – to hold separate summits with Russia and pursue a contrary policy, without, moreover, informing either our Baltic friends or the European institutions.
By way of a final comment, let me say that cooperation in regional conflicts appears to me to be very important.
We are deeply worried about the weakening of democracy in Russia.
We also call on Russia to ensure better protection of national minorities.
Without a readiness to reach a compromise and start a reconciliation process there can be no chance of ending the suffering and developing a lasting peace in the framework of a wide autonomy for the Republic of Chechnya.
The European Union and Russia can only develop a real strategic partnership if Russia fully endorses the basic European values and principles of democracy, the rule of law and full protection of human and minority rights.
At the same time, however, there can be no&#160;one who is not concerned at the way in which the major energy companies operate in Russia.
Notwithstanding the many strategic reasons for this partnership, however, it must be based on respect for the European understanding of values.
Russia has been a source of fascination for all of Europe throughout modern history, or in other words since the Middle Ages.
On the other hand, we regarded it as an Asian country, and thought of it primarily in barbarian terms.
On the one hand, Russia is described as a major supplier of raw materials that are vital to the European Union, as well as an enormous market and a potential ally of European culture and traditions.
After all, we cannot ignore the fact that millions of Russians died in order to liberate Europe.
We should never fail to make a clear distinction between the loyal ally which played a large part in liberating most of Europe, and which fulfilled its commitments towards its other allies in Asia 60&#160;years ago, and the country that attacked us.
This distinction should also be reflected in the relevant parts of our resolutions and debates.
When fervent advocates of democracy talk in this Chamber about the problems experienced by national minorities in Russia, even though they themselves come from countries where hundreds of thousands of citizens have not been granted citizenship, I find it hard to know whether they are making fun of all of us, or whether they are merely demonstrating barefaced cheek and a shaky grasp of what democracy means.
It stubbornly refuses to make any kind of attempt to account for its criminal past in its relations with neighbouring countries, including Poland.
This past includes the MolotovRibbentrop Pact of 23&#160;August&#160;1939 and the genocide such as that committed against Polish officers murdered in Katyn, Kharkov and Mednoe in 1940 and in numerous NKVD dungeons over the following years.
The USSR occupied the Baltic States twice.
Russia must acknowledge the occupation of the Baltic States.
In order for us to be successful, it is important for the countries of the European Union to speak with one voice to Russia, and also to pull no punches in calling things by their real names. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Malmström report is a balancing act.
The success of the latter in many areas means that supporters of&#160;the old Soviet system now appear to have no real chance any more of being elected in Russia.
Thirdly, we must realise that a process of this kind can only work in the&#160;long run if it is based on democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and we must acknowledge that there are grounds for criticism in this respect.
It is for this reason that we are building a strategic partnership, which has been embodied in the four common areas, for example, and the common energy policy, which will be formulated in such a way as to prevent onesided dependence on our part.
The events that will take place in 2007, and our joint preparations for these events, will also be a focus for this strategic partnership, as 2007 will see the expiry of the partnership and cooperation agreements, the holding of elections in Russia and the planned entry of Russia into the WTO.
This would allow us to help ensure that developments in Russia move in a sensible direction, which is in both our interests and our neighbours’ interests, and would help prevent fresh outbreaks of hostility.
Most importantly, dialogue with Russia is necessary because we need the country’s help on such matters as the Middle East, the UN and the Security Council.
While the roadmaps that have been laid down indicate to both partners where they can begin to improve their cooperation in a number of areas, other questions remain unresolved, and I should like to single out three of them.
At the same time, it can be said that there are worrying developments within Russia as regards the values for which the European Union stands, not least democracy, the rule of law and transparency.
Commissioner Wallström was right, in her report, to devote a great deal of attention to this.
The establishing of a transparent democracy and economy in Russia is not only a theoretical concept in the longer term; it is also a matter of common concern to the peoples of Europe and Russia.
The EU must do everything in its power to persuade Russia to adopt a more cooperative stance, and we must capitalise on the room in the agreements recently concluded.
Finally, Russia is a crucial factor in the success of the Neighbourhood Policy in the new neighbouring countries, but policymaking and implementation are far too inadequate for the time being.
The EU’s Russia policy must take greater account of the neighbourhood policy objectives, which should not become secondary to relations between Europe’s capitals and Moscow. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the way in which the European Union has dealt with Russia does not inspire me with very much confidence, certainly not when one considers the terrible war in Chechnya.
Indeed, in their talks with Putin, most Heads of Government avoid sensitive issues such as the war in Chechnya and observance of human rights.
In the European journalist Ben van der Velden’s book. ‘European powerlessness’, I read a transcript of an interview between the author and Commissioner Patten.
At summits, you must also be prepared to make a nuisance of yourself about an issue such as Chechnya.’ This House has always stood for an inclusive peace process, in other words a process that encompasses all layers of Chechen society, inside of Chechnya but also the rebels who renounce terrorism.
With all due respect, Commissioner, it is a bad thing to talk about support for socioeconomic recovery on top of the desperately needed humanitarian aid, without there being a serious solution to the conflict.
Mr Barroso made a distinction earlier between demagogy and democracy.
I greatly fear that the Commission and the Council of Europe are being demagogic on this matter. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;When discussing our relations with Russia, we frequently think in terms of the Russian people, the Russian culture and our dealings with Russian businesses.
At the same time, however, President&#160;Putin’s policies present us with a problem.
The latter was joint commander of the 1968 invasion of Czechoslovakia and in charge of the defeat of Solidarity. ‘Divide and conquer’ has been one of the guiding principles of the Kremlin’s policies for some time now.
Now the EU must send out a clear sign of solidarity to Russia, and a sign that we will gauge its good will towards the EU as a whole on the basis of its approach to the new Eastern European Member States. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, it is quite clear that cooperation with Russia is immensely important.
As the rapporteur notes, our cooperation should be based on common values, but the fact is that Russia is moving ever further away from such values as democracy and civil liberties.
Common values are therefore a goal rather than a reality, and both the Council and the Commission should do everything in their power to ensure that this goal is achieved.
Amongst other things, it will make it possible for us to resolve local conflicts, such as those in Transnistria, Nagorno Karabakh, Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
The same is true for energy policy, on the subject of which Mr&#160;Schmit said that there was a prospect of removing obstacles to energy cooperation.
The latter would run along the bottom of the Baltic Sea, and could facilitate a diversification of energy sources for various EU Member States.
Thirdly, the success achieved by all of us will depend first and foremost upon the coherence of our common foreign and security policy, and the extent to which it takes into account the interests of all the 25&#160;EU Member States.
It should therefore be stated in plain terms that we are emphatically in favour of a pragmatic and coherent approach which involves working as partners, and which takes into account the interests of all the EU Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr PresidentinOffice of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by warmly thanking Mrs&#160;Malmström for the excellent cooperation.
I see no contradiction between these two approaches; in my opinion, it would be unfeasible to emphasise one and ignore the other.
There can be no question that Russia is a strategic partner for the EU, but we would have preferred to see it actually acting as such during the events in Ukraine.
Ukraine would also have been glad had this been the case, but unfortunately it was still too early for such a thing.
The same applies to South Caucasus, and we would also be glad to have Russia as a strategic partner with regard to Georgia.
We must constantly remind Russia that we want to act as its partner, but the basic requirements for such a partnership must remain unaltered.
Commissioner, you said that we must speak with one voice, and it is my belief that this House is prepared to do so.
The fact that Russia’s economic growth is closely tied to the rise in energy resource prices on the world market, and has not been accompanied by social and economic reforms, does nothing to engender confidence in longterm and stable growth in that country.
Russia, however, is fortunately now making some moves towards punishing those responsible for some of the atrocities.
Russia must not be allowed to turn the clock back to authoritarianism and abandon its respect for democracy and human rights. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, one of the greatest challenges the European Union faces is to build relations with Russia, with both parties acting as partners.
Relations with Russia and the Russian people must be strengthened in order to allow us to engage in economic cooperation and to work together to establish international norms in Eurasia.
The European Union should pursue the goal of bringing Russia closer to the EU and to its standards and institutions.
Russian civil society should be a key partner for the European Union in its relations with the country, and we should support it in its efforts to promote democracy, media freedom and respect for human rights.
On the one hand, it is fighting a postcolonial war in Chechnya and violates the fundamental human rights of those living in this region.
Even as we level criticism at the system put in place by President&#160;Putin, however, we must never forget that there is also another Russia.
This other Russia found its full expression in the thoughts and activities of Andrei&#160;Sakharov, who was both a great European and a great Russian.
Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Malmström report is the European Parliament’s wish to discern in Russia a partner in practical, prudent and highquality cooperation.
Latvia lost part of its territory as a result of its occupation by the USSR.
President Putin obstinately calls this demagogy.
I believe that all parties could unite in saying that German politicians are glad that, after many decades, good relations with Russia have been restored.
For the first time since the recent enlargement of the EU a resolution on this issue has been worked out, with us taking part in the work of this Parliament, the Parliament of a huge and powerful European Union.
The answer is important for the entire European Union, for Russia’s neighbours in particular.
I believe that cooperation is needed in order to resolve international and regional crises within the framework of the UN and to prevent the imposition of unilateral solutions.
The experience gained from joint participation in the Quartet to resolve the Palestinian problem, which resulted in the roadmap, should be applied to other regional problems, such as Kosovo, the crisis in the Caucasus and the crisis in Central Asia.
From this point of view, the European Union and the new Member States have a great deal of responsibility.
The crucial factor for the future of relations between the European Union and Russia is the configuration of a joint European strategy in which all the Member States will talk the same language, not on the basis of national priorities on individual interests.
We, as the European Union, need a cohesive and integrated strategy with vision and inspiration in our relations with Russia. &#160;&#160; .
The important thing is to have a frank dialogue and a dialogue on every question.
That also means a dialogue on human rights questions and, for instance, on difficult issues like Chechnya.
We in the European Commission feel that we must do something for the population: not only provide humanitarian aid, but also assist in reconstruction.
These are concrete actions.
On the question of history, we know that there are still some very difficult, delicate issues between the Baltic States and Russia.
But our priority must be to look to the future and, in this regard, I repeat exactly what I said: we have to raise every question openly, whatever it may be.
I can only say that this is a commercial project and have nothing else to add at the moment. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The main argument here, especially on the side of the PPEDE Group, was that there are already too many agencies that are not sufficiently costeffective and that thereby many of the tasks of the European institutions, such as Parliament or the Commission, would be delegated to agencies.
I tried to make a clear point in this respect in my report.
The credibility of the Agency, and our credibility, will be ensured by its welldefined mandate and structure.
But I must emphasise that this Agency has to have a broader mandate, covering the Charter of Fundamental Rights in its totality.
Cooperation has to be a keyword in this field when we look at the Council of Europe.
It is important to use and build upon what has been achieved so far in the Council of Europe, not only symbolically but also in practical daybyday terms.
The protection of national minorities has become a very important issue since EU enlargement and it has also become clear that combating xenophobia and discrimination is not enough in itself to guarantee minority rights.
Therefore, the Agency must stand in the centre of a European movement striving towards better observance of fundamental rights and it must apply all the knowledge from previous experience in this process.
It is a precautionary impact assessment, which allows the Commission to only adopt measures that will enable us to make progress in our attempts to better protect fundamental rights.
The request came from Parliament, and I was in full agreement.
Among the 10 priority measures included in the action plan implementing the socalled ‘Hague Programme’ for a European area of freedom, security and justice, which was approved by the Commission on 6 May, I have placed the principle of Europe’s promotion and protection of fundamental rights at the very top.
This emphasis clearly demonstrates how, in my opinion, the protection of fundamental rights is a priority that cuts across all of the Union’s policy areas, particularly when, as has been stressed a number of times, including in front of this House, it is a case of balancing citizens’ strong calls for security with respect for people’s fundamental rights.
I too am convinced that there is a need to very clearly state that only a strong and effective agency can justify the conversion of the Vienna Observatory, as decided by the European Council and approved by this House, into a genuine European agency.
On behalf of the Commission, I can state that the report presented today meets with our full approval.
It is clear that Parliament must have an important role.
There are clearly many possibilities: the possibility of a formal codecision process, which would be restricted, however, as many of you already know from a legal analysis, to only certain fundamental rights, or else a different procedure.
Its duty would be to defend them in substance, even if the legal basis were to be different.
I therefore confirm this commitment, by once again thanking the rapporteur for her report. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, first I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Gál, on her exceptional work.
I consider that the report is complete and that its contents create preconditions for the protection of citizens' personal data and fundamental rights in general.
The incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Constitutional Treaty and the future accession of the European Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms will certainly create a legal obligation for the Union to promote the protection of human rights in all policy sectors.
Consequently, in order for the collaboration in question to be effective, the states should apply the harmonisation for which provision is made in the resolutions of the Council of Europe.
Creating a culture of respect for fundamental rights should be the Agency's priority and should be implemented, among other things, by developing a communication strategy.
The structure of the Agency should, in my opinion, also support special departments to deal with mass media communication issues, such as, for example, the concentration of the media, transparency and freedom of the press and expression.
Finally, the objective of the Agency is to develop a communication strategy which will help to create a culture of respect for fundamental rights and I think, despite any opinions voiced to the contrary, that this is a very important issue, as is its proposed structure.
People will be free if they have a place and rights in our society that we have organised to this end.
We all know that, without the necessary dignity, there is a risk that universal rights will benefit only some.
Our Union is entering a new phase.
We are in the process of creating a legal obligation for the Union to ensure that fundamental rights are actively promoted across all policy areas.
The proposed Fundamental Rights Agency would be the practical tool in this work.
Its main mandate covers what happens inside the Union.
This is the worst case of human rights violation occurring in our part of the world and the Fundamental Rights Agency should be able to confront it.
I also hope that this House will state clearly that the future gender institute at the very least should work closely with and be situated in the same location as the Fundamental Rights Agency.
My group is absolutely delighted that a number of principles have been agreed on in the course of these disputes.
This agency is intended to act in support of the Member States, rather than to take decisions on their behalf.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, and to assure her of our support.
All too often we are helpless bystanders and all too often our cooperation links pave the way for fundamental rights violations to take place in third countries.
In contrast, such incidents occur all too often and it is necessary, therefore, to carefully assess the legislation in force. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing more splendid than human rights, or in other words the right to freedom and the right to truth.
Broadly speaking, genuine freedom is the most important of all human rights.
A new law is being introduced that will prevail in the European Union, and this supreme law, my dear friends, is Parkinson’s Law.
The main EU institutions bear the brunt of the responsibility for protecting fundamental rights, since the Commission is the guardian of the Treaties, Parliament represents the interests of citizens, the Council represents the interests of the Member States, and, most importantly, the European Court of Justice is the supreme body of legal protection.
A broader exchange of knowhow and experience would allow overall improvements to be made to EU standards, and useful improvements could be made in this field if existing institutions, instruments and procedures were networked.
If the agency adheres to these guidelines, there is every chance that it will play a valuable part in protecting European fundamental rights, a task that – after all – falls to all of us. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the Gál report deserves our support.
Since the Treaty of Amsterdam, the European Union has legislated in sectors which touch more directly and indirectly on human rights.
The protection of personal data, the right to asylum, equal and transparent access to justice, the fight against every form of discrimination or the protection of minorities are central components of the promotion of human dignity in a Europe of the citizens and not simply of trade or of unilateral emphasis on security at any cost.
However, paradoxically, no harmonising mechanisms or procedures have yet been provided for the European Union institutions, so that this evaluation can be carried out adequately.
Consequently, if we want to do our job properly, we need to acquire an agency, internal assistance if you like, which will support us in our job, such as the future Fundamental Rights Agency.
Finally, it goes without saying that the credentials and structure of this agency must be predefined by the legislator, with the European Parliament therefore as colegislator.
This is the reason why the Commission's future proposal also needs to adhere to the codecision procedure. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to thank my honourable friend, Mrs Gál, for her report and to say that we are delighted to see that the question of promoting and protecting human rights is increasingly the subject of consultation between the Union's institutions.
However, the protection of human rights can be achieved not merely by creating competent agencies but, above all, through a real change of policies in a way such that racism against foreigners is not fostered, the strengthening of a police regime is not supported and, in general, its citizens' and everyone's rights are not undermined in the name of security.
In the hope that this will be guaranteed, we shall vote in favour of the proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the proposal for an EU fundamental rights agency is the height of folly, even by the standards of this place.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights was included in the new Constitution as one of the most misconceived documents of recent years.
A passing parade of political nonentities have given themselves the power to grant rights and freedoms to other people.
Far worse, they have given themselves the power to remove those rights and freedoms when it suits them or their successors.
This Charter and this proposal profoundly misunderstand the nature of human rights and they reflect this House’s obsession with social engineering. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased to follow the honourable gentleman, Mr Mote.
It needs to work in conjunction with the three institutions and ensure that the proposals coming from those institutions are compatible with and not in contradiction of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and our international obligations.
Its focus should be within the EU, but at the same time it should have a role in the formulation of our EU Association agreement.
Indeed, some political delegations in this House have never voted in favour of nondiscrimination measures.
That in itself party politicises nondiscrimination measures and fundamental rights.
We therefore support the decision that this initiative should be treated as a legislative initiative by the European Parliament.
This democratic platform that we are going to create will benefit everybody: Member States, international bodies, civil society and third countries.
Finally, this decision can only lead to greater and better promotion and protection of human rights, inside and outside the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree with many who have spoken before me, that we are witnessing a process of historic importance when we see that the EU has overcome its previous obstacles and has set the goal of representing and protecting human rights.
I believe that the various institutions that the EU has recently established, or will establish in the future, must prove that they are able to cooperate in an ideal fashion, strengthen each other, and really carry out effective work with the help of civil organisations and civil initiatives.
I, myself, am a member of an equal opportunities working group and believe that the Institute for Equal Opportunities, which is soon to be established, will need to participate in this work.
I believe that EU action on fundamental rights and freedoms requires positive intervention and not only protection.
On behalf of the Commission, I would like to illustrate what the agency must not represent.
The agency must not and cannot be a bureaucratic structure for accusing the Member States, but rather an organisation serving all of the EU institutions, an effective organisation providing assistance to Member States and support for their policies.
We will devote particular attention to the debate and to the decision that will be adopted by Parliament, but I believe that, to begin with, the agency certainly can and must have geographical competence inside the Member States.
I will conclude my speech by stressing the wholehearted desire of the Commission to maintain ongoing dialogue with Parliament, because it is unthinkable that, on such an important issue as fundamental rights, action should not be taken in direct and continuous contact with this House, paying attention to its opinions. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the oneminute speeches on matters of political importance. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, vigorous protests have been voiced against offshoring on many occasions, both in this Chamber and elsewhere.
In fact, quite the reverse is true, as everyone agrees that entirely different measures should be taken to prevent offshoring.
I believe that the Polish approach merits closer inspection, and I would recommend it to any country that is proposing to introduce draconian measures to the detriment of entrepreneurs who have taken the guiding principle of the common European market seriously.
This applies particularly to France and Germany. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the majority of the new Member States, unlike the old ones, do not enjoy a visa free regime with the United States.
The Washington administration has offered a roadmap to the new EU Member States to facilitate their qualification for a visa free regime.
A visa free regime for the new EU Member States would contribute to the strengthening of transatlantic links and would promote political, economic and human change.
This would once again demonstrate that all EU Member States are equal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I just want to raise a case of the need for fair treatment of someone who has been arrested in Spain on an extradition warrant from Morocco.
The Polish authorities competent in such matters have the right and duty to determine the length of training in accordance with the requirements set out in the Directive, and to recognise qualifications on the basis of standard acquired rights.
Several Members, including Mr&#160;Brok, ViceChairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, have already signed the appeal calling on the Afghan people to isolate the kidnappers and contribute to the release of young Clementina.
I believe that the European Parliament, which received President&#160;Karzai during the last partsession in Strasbourg and which is helping the Afghan people in their return to normality, has the duty, in this tragic affair, to make its voice heard and its solidarity towards this young woman felt. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, on 18&#160;May I travelled to Cuba with Mr&#160;Protasiewicz.
The European Union suspended diplomatic sanctions against the Havana regime a few months ago, so that consideration could be given to the future shape of relations between Havana and Brussels.
I would ask the President of the European Parliament to lodge a protest with the Cuban authorities and to demand an explanation.
I would also ask him to include a debate on the situation in Cuba and relations with the Castro regime on the agenda for the next Strasbourg session.
Our relations with this regime must be based on respect for human rights and demands for the release of political prisoners in Cuba. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I take this opportunity to convey my deepest sympathy to the families of five young teenage girls who tragically lost their lives two days ago in Ireland in an accident involving a school bus in which they were travelling.
This matter is relevant to us obviously because of the horrific tragedy involving the loss of these young lives, but also because we have dealt with the use of seatbelts in public transport many times in this House with, I have to say, only limited success.
To the Irish Government, please convey our concerns on the safety of children using school transport in Ireland. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, it is fortunate that a Polish Member is in the chair, as I wish to inform the House that the European Union tolerates certain practices in the Republic of Poland that blatantly contradict EU economic policy.
The victims are potential Polish car buyers, and these practices brazenly flout all the rules that apply in the European Union, one of which is equality, or so we are told.
I would therefore ask for pressure to be brought to bear on Poland to ensure that it abandons such dubious practices, as they are detrimental to both Polish taxpayers and the European Union. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is currently debating a compromise package for the 20072013 Financial Perspective.
The Luxembourg presidency recently sent a proposal regarding spending cuts to the governments of all the Member States.
It should not be forgotten that support for social, economic and territorial cohesion and solidarity between Member States are objectives that are enshrined in the European Union’s Treaties.
It also needs to be made quite clear that the cuts proposed by the richest countries are incompatible with the European Union’s ambitious postenlargement goals. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this weekend there will be a vote on the European Constitution, and it is in our interests and in the interests of this House that even more information should be made available on the subject.
With this in mind, perhaps it might be possible to have the House’s Press Service prepare statements on the subject for our President and other interested parties.
Our visit was connected with this country’s violation of the right of national minorities to selfdetermination and the right to representation of the Association of Poles in Belarus.
Mr&#160;President, I should like to remind the House that presidential elections will take place in Belarus in less than a year.
In totalitarian countries ruled by dictatorships, such as Belarus, finding a scapegoat and pinning the principal blame for failure on national minorities is a tried and tested solution.
The Commission adopted this proposal for a third directive on the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing less than a year ago!
This directive builds on existing Community texts and incorporates into Community law the revised 40&#160;recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force on money laundering and terrorist financing.
The directive tightens the controls in the financial sector against money launderers and terrorist financers and strengthens cooperation between countries.
Not only will the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing benefit from this, but so will the integrity and stability of the financial sector.
The EU is also setting an example for other countries in the world to follow and match.
The third antimoney laundering directive will prohibit money laundering as well as terrorist financing.
It is applicable to the financial sector as well as to lawyers, notaries, accountants, real estate agents and casinos, trust and company service providers as well as all providers of goods when payments are made in cash in excess of EUR&#160;15&#160;000.
With this updated system we have progressed enormously.
This clause provides for the suspension of the comitology procedure four years after the entry into force of the directive.
In accordance with Article&#160;251 of the Treaty, these measures may be renewed by Parliament and the Council on a proposal from the Commission.
Most importantly, its obligations were extended to cover a much larger number of professions, in particular lawyers and notaries.
These recommendations set out harmonised rules on combating money laundering, and are especially useful in that they are also applied in other countries outside the EU.
The task now before us is to amend the money laundering regulations for the third time.
What I am presenting to the House does not therefore correspond entirely to my own ideas, but unfortunately that is the nature of compromise.
This approach is now enshrined in the Directive.
I should briefly like to touch upon three points of contention.
It further stipulates that a bank must inform the authorities if it suspects that money laundering is taking place.
As was to be expected, problems relating to politically exposed persons, or PEPs, caused somewhat of a stir in the House.
I would note, however, that this Directive is not in actual fact aimed at MEPs, but at persons who are guilty of money laundering or similar offences, and we were forced to find a way of making this rule workable.
We therefore came to a compromise whereby the residents of a Member State will be exempt from special surveillance measures, but that the latter will apply to residents of other Member States.
As a final point, I have every sympathy for the attempts that lawyers naturally made to gain exemption from this Directive, particularly in view of the fact that it was only when the latter was amended for the second time that they were included in its scope.
I should like to thank Mr&#160;Peillon and Mr&#160;Muscat, as well as Baroness&#160;Ludford, for their cooperation, which made it possible for us to conclude the matter at first reading.
I would ask Members to vote in favour of this draft report tomorrow. &#160;&#160; It is a report about the Directive which for the first time speaks in a direct way about the concept of the financing of terrorism, as apart from money laundering.
In our committee it is always very difficult to get interpretation into the mother tongue from even large countries – Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic; countries that are now at the heart of our European Union.
He has found an effective compromise and I hope our own amendments in the IMCO Committee, of which he is also a distinguished member, will support that.
There have been legal challenges in Member States and, indeed, similar legislation had to be repealed in Canada because of a constitutional challenge.
I would ask him to reiterate that assurance tonight and, if possible, tomorrow morning before we vote, so that lawyers at least know their position will be subject to review. &#160;&#160; – I should first like to commend Mr Nassauer on his excellent report, which received the backing of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
The Union, the Member States and the citizens must be protected by stepping up the fight against money laundering.
The principle of confidentiality between lawyer and client is fundamental to an effective legal defence.
Our work with the rapporteur was very constructive, for which I thank him quite particularly.
Parliament’s positions have been heard by the Council, which has made it possible to reach a compromise, particularly with regard to three essential points that we support.
For the legal professions, we did not want to go back on the experience of the previous directive.
I would like to add that the issue of judicial and police cooperation remains central and decisive in the context of the fight against money laundering, even though it is not covered by this directive.
We find this regrettable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the fact that the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is a political priority for the European Union is shown by the speedy progress of this measure.
The third directive brings in limited but useful changes from the second directive.
The one, also useful, improvement is that this new directive will simplify the process, hopefully, for European citizens wanting to open a bank account in another EU country, as that bank will not have to carry out further identity checks.
We are debating the third directive without a clear insight into what have been the effects of the second directive.
In particular, I believe that excessive attention has been paid to the matter of suspicion, when perhaps we should concentrate more on certainties, by ensuring individual guarantees.
Derogations from antimoneylaundering measures must be granted for activities covered by professional confidentiality, in order to safeguard the proper administration of justice and the existence of a meaningful defence, rather than a sham one. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to take this opportunity to express my particular thanks to Mr&#160;Nassauer for having drafted this report, and to congratulate him on it.
It goes without saying that there are certain things that could have been added or left out, and that people will always find something to quibble about.
My hope now is that our decisions will finally be put into practice, and that in two or three years’ time we will then be able to assess their real impact.
This would not have been possible without a spirit of cooperation and compromise on all sides and the political will to make it happen.
The European Union is in the vanguard of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, adding to its credibility and weight in its bilateral relations with its main diplomatic partners as well as in the different international fora dealing with these matters.
Mrs Wallis raised the issue of the treatment of lawyers.
The Commission is favourable to the amendment to Article&#160;39, which foresees that within two years of the expiry of the deadline for transposition of the directive the Commission will draw up a report on its implementation, which will include the specific examination of the treatment of lawyers and other professions.
Let me once again thank Mr Nassauer, Mr Muscat and all the others who have contributed to this positive outcome.
The Commission fully endorses the agreement and accepts all amendments that form part of the compromise package agreed with the Council. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
These decisions will greatly facilitate the planning and successful implementation of programmes over coming years.
I am therefore delighted that after considering the Commission’s proposal, the House has tabled it without any additional comments. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report which we are debating proposes the annual extension of the funding for the two Community action programmes on the application of gender equality in the European Union, both of which come to an end on 31 December 2005.
These two programmes form the nucleus of our action in the field of the European strategy for gender equality and for the strategy of the civil society organisations working in the field of gender equality.
The European Commission is proposing a total budget of EUR 61.5 million, compared with EUR 50 million in the previous budget.
We also make a very important step towards pluralism and the more democratic participation of civil society; in other words, by opening up Community funding to all women's organisations, rather than just to certain privileged partners, as was the case in previous years.
However, the situation as regards equality in the European Union, including as a result of enlargement and the particular problems which are arising in the new Member States, the lack of participation by women in the productive, economic, political and social process and the discrimination which is faced today by women in particular are forcing us to be bolder in our next moves.
In adopting this report, we are preventing the gap which existed in the Community financial perspectives and speeding up the legislative procedures between the institutions – the European Commission, Council and European Parliament – for the approval of a final decision, as the competent Commissioner, Mr Figel, said earlier.
In this way, we shall avoid the bad experiences of the past, by which I mean the amount of time taken to adopt programmes, the consequence of which is failure on the part of the European Commission to prepare proposals for the submission of tenders and for civil society to participate and respond to the European Commission's proposals in time.
This is particularly important in this period, when we are all working to strengthen the Lisbon Strategy and economic and social cohesion.
Our motion for a resolution also points out that, within the framework of the new financial perspectives for the 20072013 programming period, we need to ensure that there is satisfactory and discriminate financing of these programmes, which will allow the effective promotion of equality and the development of a fundamental role and the contribution of civil society working for equality in our democratic life.
The two action programmes will make it possible to provide effective support to the NGOs working in the field of equality between men and women.
I congratulate the Commission on its work in this field.
If the European institutions want to be taken seriously, the political desire for a Union closer to its citizens must be translated into actions.
We cannot allow ourselves to exclude some NGOs from the financing.
The Commission has put forward proposals in the 20072013 Financial Perspective for a new programme for employment and social policy under the name of PROGRESS, however, and this is where our views diverge.
At the same time, however, the equality of men and women is given pride of place as one of the EU’s values and objectives in Articles 1 to 3 of the Constitutional Treaty that is currently being put to popular vote.
While gender mainstreaming must be implemented in all these fields, for example antidiscrimination and employment, equal opportunities must continue to be an issue in its own right, and one that is visible to women.
We have always said that our strategy was twofold, namely gender mainstreaming in all policy areas and separate EUsponsored programmes to promote women’s interests, until such a time as equal opportunities become a reality.
I also want just to take this opportunity strongly to request that those organisations and projects that are to receive aid should be carefully evaluated and inspected so that the results are as constructive as possible. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;As I only have one minute to speak, I should like to make it clear that we are opposed to the implementation of a programme that seeks to promote equal opportunities by breeding hostility between the sexes, or in other words by encouraging women to regard men as the enemy in their fight for better treatment.
All human beings are equal, but gender means that men and women are different not only in physical terms, but also in mental and spiritual terms.
Women play an irreplaceable role in every aspect of family and social life.
I am in no doubt that British pilots are among the best in the world, and indeed the same applies to British Airways, which is why I am never afraid of flying with that airline.
Even though this is an extremely complex field, I am quite sure that it will be possible to find an appropriate solution that makes allowance for women’s legitimate demands.
As I said at the beginning of this debate, this programme is a technical extension of the present programme, or in other words of a programme aimed at supporting European organisations that are active in the field of equal opportunities, without any restrictions on the type, form or political affiliation of these organisations. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
This extension will ensure that support continues to be provided to such enterprises until the end of the current Financial Perspective, and indeed the debate has already begun on the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme, which is intended to replace the current programme and is due to be launched in 2007.
Access to financial instruments continues to be a major problem for around 1020% of European small and mediumsized enterprises.
Cooperation with the European Investment Fund and use of the financial markets allow us to mobilise funds at a rate of up to 1:40 with guarantee instruments and of an average of 1:4 with the more specialised equity capital instrument, which is targeted at a smaller number of enterprises.
The additional EUR 7 million proposed by Mrs&#160;Thomsen and approved by the House today will therefore mobilise many times this sum in investment capital for existing small and mediumsized enterprises and business startups.
The Commission drafted its proposal in mid2004, when the European Investment Fund was extremely pessimistic about the financing instruments’ chances of success in the 20052006 period, and when there was a lack of certainty over the amount of funding that would be available in the last year of the present Financial Perspective.
It was for this reason that we were cautious when deciding on the figure that appears in our proposal on the financing instruments.
Positive feedback from the European Investment Fund means that we now have a better idea of the market chances of these instruments, as well as a clear idea of the funds that will be available under the 2006 Community budget.
The Commission wishes to build on this success in the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme, and over EUR&#160;1&#160;billion of the Programme’s total proposed budget, which has been set at EUR&#160;4.2&#160;billion for the 20072013 period, has been earmarked for financing instruments.
Finally, a new securitisation window has been proposed, the aim of which is to make it easier for local and regional banks to lend more to small and mediumsized enterprises. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the framework programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship for small and mediumsized enterprises is an important programme for every smaller enterprise in search of information or funding.
At the same time, it should be pointed out that what we have here is a programme that both users and evaluation experts regard as operating smoothly and achieving its objectives.
Finally, the external evaluation report has stressed that the financial instruments in the existing programme in large measure cover the needs of the new Member States.
Restricting funds would therefore impede the integration of those countries into the European economy.
My colleague, Mr&#160;Březina, and I met with the Council and the Commission on several occasions and now concur with the Council about an agreement at first reading involving an increase in the budget of EUR&#160;7&#160;million instead of the EUR&#160;9.5 million I originally proposed.
Although we are extending the programme primarily supporting entrepreneurs, and especially SMEs, by just one year until the end of 2006, this is a significant tool which should, in the context of the Lisbon objectives, contribute to and enhance the growth and competitiveness of enterprises in a knowledgebased and internationalised economy.
The importance of this decision lies above all in creating a bridge between the current programme and the Framework Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation for the years 20072013.
This extension will give businesses easier access to Community support services, programmes and networks, and help to improve the coordination of these facilities.
Focusing on the new Competitiveness and Innovation Programme, we are to look into the evaluation of the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship prepared for the Commission in November last year, in order to tailor the new programme more effectively and promote entrepreneurship in the EU.
It must not be assumed, however, that more money automatically means a better programme.
I was present at the special meeting held in Strasbourg when the Commissioner spoke for the first time about his personal experience of this multiannual programme for SMEs, and I paid very close attention to what he had to say on the matter.
We will be right behind him if he goes on to demand of his officials that programmes should exist not merely for bureaucratic reasons or because they have impressive names, but only if they concentrate on SMEs, or in other words on those enterprises that are in need of help.
More questions need to be asked in this respect, and I will be able to ask some of these in my capacity as rapporteur.
Our reaction has been both rapid and extremely flexible, thus meeting market expectations.
What Lisbon means, of course, is employment and growth, and we have already established that small and mediumsized enterprises have accounted for 75% of new jobs created in recent years.
It is our duty to provide as many people as possible with this opportunity, and those who have jobs and are in employment obviously have more money in the bank than those who are unemployed.
Even though a speedy and welcome decision has been taken on this programme, which has even allowed for an increase in funding, Parliament, the Council and the Commission should therefore make every effort to ensure that we do in fact achieve the Lisbon goals, in particular when debating the Financial Perspective. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
This accident, in which five schoolchildren were killed and 46 injured, shows once again that we need to do all we can to mitigate the consequences of such accidents for passengers.
The proposals being debated today seek to do precisely that.
Three of the proposals concern the safety of passengers in commercial vehicles, in particular on buses.
As far as the three directives on the safety belt are concerned, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Costa and Mr&#160;Koch for their reports and for their efforts at getting these three proposals for directives adopted at the second reading.
All three directives ultimately seek to make it compulsory for safety belts to be installed in all vehicles apart from passenger cars, where, as you know, this has already been the case for several years.
This is only possible if safety belts are fitted and there is a requirement to wear them.
The Commission stresses once again that it is all the more urgent for these three directives to be adopted, given that the installation of safety belts in new vehicles must of course be made mandatory before we can introduce a requirement to wear them.
If we wish to make it mandatory for seat belts to be installed in all seats, then we find ourselves obliged to ban sidefacing seats in coaches, because the types of belts currently available for such seats do not offer passengers optimal protection.
On the question of frontal protection systems on motor vehicles – the socalled bull bars – I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Petersen, and the draftsman of the opinion of the second committee to which the proposal was referred, Mr&#160;Harbour, for their efforts to carry out a thorough and coordinated examination of this proposal.
I should particularly like to thank the rapporteur for successfully building a broad consensus in favour of this proposal at an early stage within the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
The Commission’s proposal of October 2003 complied with Parliament’s demand, and I am delighted to note that the report of the Committee on Transport and Tourism comes to the same conclusion.
The first part of my contribution to this debate will be concerned with three closely connected proposals for directives, for which Dr Koch and Mr Costa are the rapporteurs.
We know that a properly fitted safety belt can reduce the severity of injuries and save lives, which is why it is right to require all seats in vehicles to be equipped with safety belts.
It will therefore become mandatory for seat belts to be fitted, not only in passenger cars, as has been the case up until now, but also in other categories of vehicles, in particular minibuses and certain other buses, as well as light and heavy goods vehicles.
Nevertheless, these seats should only be permitted if they are fitted with suitable safety belts and are grouped together at the back of the vehicle, preferably in a Ushape, around a table.
I am pleased that the Council and the Commission have revised their original opinion and now also see this as a workable basis for future type approvals.
After all, neither the available accident statistics nor studies or tests suggest that passengers travelling in sidefacing seats in large conference buses are at increased risk.
This is due in part to different vehicles being susceptible to different types of accidents, which affect them in different ways.
In the case of passenger cars and minibuses, a frontal impact is typical.
But this stands in contradiction to the internal market strategy and even allows sidefacing seats without belts to be authorised.
In making this decision, we are therefore in any case contributing to improving safety, not only on the roads, but also in the internal market.
In addition, we are determining the future viability of a typically European product in the tourism sector, the VIP or conference bus.
In this context, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Costa and the other shadow rapporteurs, as well as Mrs&#160;Hedkvist Petersen for her skilful negotiating as rapporteur on the frontal protection systems on passenger cars, which really do pose a huge danger in accidents involving unprotected road users, principally in urban areas.
In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the Member States may also subject existing vehicles to these rules and authorise flexible frontal protection systems, but only if they have passed a harmonised test procedure.
These two reports are important because they are about ensuring that vehicles in Europe are improved.
European measures are therefore required.
The procedure involving a directive creates legal certainty, then, both for the motor trade and for manufacturers of accessories.
Britain’s Transport Research Laboratory(TRL) has published a report that in actual fact shows that what are known as smart barsdo exist, that is to say bull bars or frontal protection systems that are flexible and that also protect pedestrians in collisions with cars equipped with this type of frontal protection system.
The directive applies to the new bull bars of the future, both those already in place on cars and those that are fitted subsequently.
Finally, another subject that I think is very important and that was dealt with in the Koch and Costa reports: that of seat belts in buses and in vehicles other than cars.
That is something we do not often think about, which is why it is important for us now to obtain this directive whereby seat belts must be fitted in buses and lorries too.
There are few of us in the House this evening and we are debating issues that are of an apparently minor nature, but I am convinced that Europe is built on details, and these are important details.
The two reports on which I have worked, and which are linked to Mr&#160;Koch’s report, fundamentally address small aspects: the issue of safety belts, in the case of Mr&#160;Koch’s report, and, in my case, the technical implications of anchorages and head restraint systems for bus passengers.
Such a process will enable us, in a few years from now, to decide whether – and how – we must scrap sidefacing seats in instances where speeds are greater than those normally reached in town centres, or whether, in contrast, this new service can continue.
Although it was more difficult than we had imagined, I believe that the compromise reached with the Council on the Commission’s proposal is a good solution, and that tomorrow it can allow us to vote on the reports presented positively and with peace of mind.
The original proposal would have seen such bull bars taken off the market.
I also want to pay tribute to a small company in my constituency called Concept Mouldings, which employs 100 people making these bars and which you have kept in business.
It is thanks to you that this type of resilient device will now be available on the market.
I have discovered that in Austria, the number of offroad vehicles has increased from 117&#160;000 to 170&#160;000 since the year 2000.
On top of that, these allwheeldrive vehicles are actually hardly ever used offroad any more, but rather, for various reasons, mainly on the streets of our cities.
It was therefore high time for the European legislator to respond to this trend, because accidents involving offroad vehicles put other road users at far greater risk than accidents involving other, smaller vehicles.
Accidents involving these kinds of vehicles prove fatal in more than twice as many cases as accidents involving standard motor vehicles.
I should also like to suggest that, as we take this issue forward, we might perhaps reconsider whether in the long term it makes sense for such frontal protection systems to continue to be used at all, particularly in urban areas.
However, I also understand the arguments put forward by another Member, which at the moment undoubtedly still speak in their favour. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
When I appeared before you during my hearing, I assured you that I would promote health issues and, above all, consumer safety.
The subject of debate now, and the next subject, are achieving precisely this objective: they combine the promotion of health and, of course, consumer protection.
This is a proposal which makes a very significant contribution to health, but also takes account of the needs of industry for a clear, clarified, common European regulatory framework, which still allows for innovation and competitiveness and strengthens the internal market, while at the same time providing consumer protection.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Scheele, and the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, Mr Stubb.
Of course, in an ideal world, consumers would get all the necessary nourishment from a healthy, standard diet.
Unfortunately, however, this is no longer the case.
Consumers themselves want this, because the addition of these ingredients to food helps consumers to get satisfactory levels of these nutrients and to reduce the risks inherent in their deficiency as a result of insufficient consumption.
However, use has increased over recent years not just of vitamins and minerals, but also of substances and ingredients which are used in an innovative way.
That is why it is right that the proposal covers the safe use of these substances and, where considered necessary, brings them under the regulatory regime. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, the intention of the proposed regulation is to harmonise the different national provisions on the addition of vitamins and minerals and of certain other substances to foods.
In between there are various different nuances, such as the Member States that permit the addition of those vitamins and minerals that are listed in a particular register.
I should also like to underline that this regulation only regulates the voluntary addition of vitamins and minerals, and that national provisions on the mandatory addition of nutrients to foods are therefore not affected.
The two issues in this report that gave raise to the most heated discussion were without a doubt the nutrient profiles and the question of whether the socalled other substances should be regulated by means of a positive or a negative list.
I think that the proper place for nutrient profiles is in the Poli Bortone report on health claims, and I hope that the amendments about nutrient profiles that have been tabled to that proposal – as you now the report will be debated next – also receive majority support.
However, I believe that it would be wrong to establish nutrient profiles in my report.
If we establish the nutrient profiles here, then we will not only be banning the health claims, but also the product itself.
This seems to me to be wrong, although I am aware that some of my colleagues in my group will be supporting these amendments.
Within 18 months of the regulation’s entry into force, the Member States will have to notify the Commission of the other substances used in their territory to enrich foodstuffs.
Annex III regulates the use of the other substances.
First, I welcome the Commission’s proposal.
At the same time, it is important that Member States be able to impose some restrictions, as long as they are based on scientific evidence that there is a real risk to public health.
The addition of vitamins and minerals to a very wide variety of foods is a response to a reality&#160;–&#160;this needs to be stated&#160;–&#160;much more than simply to a fashion, the reality of a general change in our eating habits.
For example, ironenriched breakfast cereals have in many cases replaced meat as the principal source of iron in children’s food, and that is just one example among many.
I would like to finish, but I could have started with this, by asking Commissioner&#160;Kyprianou a question: when do you expect to implement the better regulation advocated by several members of the Commission, including you and Commissioner&#160;Verheugen?
Therefore, particularly in the interests of SMEs and consumers who, if they are going to believe in Europe, need clear, transparent and effective legislation, I hope that the Commission will very soon adopt this overall, consistent approach that we need in the field of food sector legislation. &#160;&#160; I welcome the report by Mrs Scheele concerning the addition of vitamins, minerals, and certain other substances to foods.
Differences among countries in legislative provisions governing this issue create barriers to the free movement of goods.
Moreover, regulation at the European level would ensure that the same standards be applied in all Member States.
Foodstuffs that have a high content of calories, fats, or sugar do not, however, become healthier solely because they contain added vitamins or other substances.
At the same time, recommended minimum and maximum daily doses should be specified for certain substances.
I believe it is the best way to secure the uniform control of food safety for different groups of consumers, be they children, pregnant women, or the elderly. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I should first like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report and her constructive cooperation.
We need to consider which of the provisions that are foreseen for vitamins and minerals would also make sense for these other substances.
From this point of view, the ‘positive list’ proposed by some Members does not make much sense either.
Numerous studies have shown that, in comparison to food produced by industrial agriculture, organic food has higher levels of easilyabsorbed vitamins, minerals and other healthpromoting substances.
Our aim should therefore be to reduce the demand for artificial additives, which has been created by advertising and pseudoscientific lobbying, at the same time as ensuring that consumers have access to a wide range of genuinely safe and highquality organic food.
We in the PPE-DE, therefore, cannot agree with the inclusion of provisions allowing for the existence of stricter rules in the States, unless they can be justified on the grounds of a proven risk to public health.
The solution is much more complex.
Foodstuffs must be healthy, of course, and the consumer must be provided with reliable information, but the really important thing is the diet that each person chooses and the lifestyle they live.
With regard to the other substances in Annex 3, I must say that their potential restriction must be based solely on safety criteria and we do not, therefore, support the amendments aimed at introducing positive lists to regulate these substances.
There are provisions relating to labelling, advertising and the presentation of fortified foods which provide a basis for analysis and, where judged necessary, for regulating the addition of certain other substances.
I agree on this point with Mrs Belohorská, who said that uniform Community legislation helps both industry and consumers in the most effective way possible and we do not have 25 different, fragmented sets of rules at various levels.
Finally, I wish to say that, for me, the recommendation on better information for industry and, of course, for consumers through increased notifications to the Commission, which will also be published, is a good thing.
However, we need to find the most correct and effective way of achieving this without creating an excessive administrative burden. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
Overall the Commission can accept 25 amendments, either completely, subject to redrafting, in part or in principle.
The Commission rejects 29 out of a total of 55 (one amendment is linguistic and does not affect the EN version).
Two amendments are acceptable: Amendments 11 and 44.
Two amendments are acceptable partially: Amendments 2 and 40.
Four amendments are acceptable partially and subject to redrafting: Amendments 33, 38, 42 and 55.
That is why we presented this proposal.
I would also like to thank Mrs Niebler and Mr Stubb, the draftsmen of the opinions of the two other committees, and the committees themselves, for the work they have done.
It says that no one can make a voluntary claim without having the scientific justification for doing so.
This is the behaviour of the average consumer, and the food industry has attempted to respond to this behaviour by means of more detailed nutritional labelling, providing claims on the positive benefits, or alleged benefits, of some foods.
It is a fact that the two basic EU directives in force – Directives 2000/13 and 90/496, relating to the labelling and nutrition labelling of foodstuffs respectively – are not only inadequately enforced in the majority of cases, but they also respond poorly to the presentday demands of consumers, since they do not allow any data to be given on the alleged health benefits, and they do not clearly define the conditions of use of the nutrition claims.
The absence of specific provisions at European level has given rise, moreover, to a real proliferation of claims on the labels of food products – claims varying in number and type.
The Member States have adopted independent provisions and standards to regulate the use of the various claims.
This results in a regulatory mess, with different approaches to the same subjectmatter, which has given rise to a state of confusion that leads to neither the effective running of the internal market, nor the safeguarding of public health and consumer health.
Faced with such legal uncertainty, there is a need to harmonise the regulations relating to foodstuffs at Community level and, therefore, a need for a regulation which, without banning any foods, will clearly set out the fundamental conditions to ensure that the claims on foodstuffs are completely accurate for consumers.
That is one further step forwards in implementing the nutrition policy included in the objectives proposed by the Commission in 1999 with the White Paper on food safety.
In this White Paper it is expressly stated that the Union’s food policy should be built around strict food safety standards that protect and promote the health of the consumer.
To these objectives must be added that of increasing the free movement of food products, in that the creation of a regulation will enable food business operators to be competitive on a fair and equal footing throughout the Member States.
With the document that we are studying, the Commission has proposed the introduction of a new regulatory framework for nutrition and health claims, authorising the use of nutrition claims provided that they comply with the provisions set out in the annex,which contains a list of nutrition claims and specific conditions for the use thereof:the use of health claims will be subject to an authorisation or notification procedure (if the Commission’s text were to remain unchanged).
Through the procedures laid down by Article 93(2), the Commission proposes to draw up specific nutrient profiles for foods or categories of foods within a period of 18 months, which could rise to as much as 30 months, and, subject to consultation of the Food Safety Agency, specific nutrient profiles for foods or categories of foods, and the adoption of a Community list of health claims which describe the generally accepted role of a nutrient or other substances on the basis of proposals submitted by the Member States.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has made many amendments to the Commission’s text, however, in particular by removing Article 4, which, in my opinion, is an extremely important article because it sets out the nutrient profiles.
The Commission’s view is that everything should be regulated: nutrition claims (such as fat content, high energy, low energy); health claims (such as ‘a food strengthens the body’s defences’, ‘a food helps concentration’, and so on) and pure ‘feelgood’ claims (such as ‘a food keeps you fit, gives you a boost, gives you energy’, and so on). ‘Feelgood’ claims are to be banned completely and health claims will in future have to be authorised by the European Food Safety Authority.
If we put in nutrient profiles, it might prevent the consumers from getting the right information.
Innovation in this sector is only possible if one product can distinguish itself from another.
And innovation is ultimately also of benefit to consumers, who consequently have access to better and better products.
The food industry takes advantage of this.
That is why Article 4 is vital.
I cannot identify with the argument by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that SMEs struggle with Article 4.
It is clear that it is not easy to draft those profiles, but it is equally clear that in the United States and in some companies, nutrient profiles have been used for a long time.
I would like to draw your attention to three other points.
I find it disappointing that some people, even within our group, are against the ban on claims for alcoholic drinks.
In the case of a licence, manufacturers must be able to demonstrate convincingly that their claim is justified.
After all, it is the consumer who is central in this proposal, and that is important too.
That is what this proposal brings across and that is what the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe wholehearted supports.
I am aware of there being a grey area around what should be done about those health claims about products that are, in fact, intrinsically unhealthy.
As far as I am concerned, I would say that this falls within the scope of misconception, and Article 7 already provides for safeguards against this; we are not entirely convinced that we need European nutrient profiles for this.
I therefore want more specific arguments.
The majority of our group will not be voting for the deletion of Article 4, but we do think that the Commission should present better arguments, and our Amendment 107 contains a request to that effect.
Article&#160;4 is key to protecting consumers from misleading advertising.
This issue has been on the agenda for a few years and this is the second time that someone has produced a report on it.
Article 4 on nutrient profiles, which is crucial, was simply wiped away by one amendment.
This article had to avoid foodstuffs such as crisps, chocolate and alcohol, which are intrinsically unhealthy foodstuffs, being labelled with health claims from which the consumer could deduce that they are healthy because they contain calcium, for example.
My group has tabled a number of amendments to rectify a situation that we find unacceptable.
That too is taking matters too far and other Members have indicated the reasons why.
We know that nothing has been left to chance, and that the Commission, the competent or representative organisations from all quarters, and also this House, have put an enormous amount of preparatory work into this.
I have a letter here, on behalf of 28 consumer groups in all of the Member States, and what do they say?
They ask us to vote for Article 4 and for a sensible version of Article 11.
The Commission has worked long and hard on this.
I cannot vote for this proposal tomorrow if the emasculation of Article 4 takes place. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, ‘no added sugar’, ‘high in iron’, ‘low in cholesterol’ or else a current bestseller, ‘high in omega3s’, health claims nowadays adorn almost all packaging, and quite naturally influence our choices as consumers.
We therefore need to guide the consumer through this veritable jungle, and that is the aim of this excellent proposal for a regulation: first to ensure that the claims are accurate, as a minimum, and then to put an end to those that cause misunderstandings.
In principle, this is very good, but obviously not for products too high in fat, sugar or salt.
The text refers to health and nutrition claims, not to advertising, as we heard here today.
A criterion that will also ban any form of health claim for alcoholic drinks, which is the least we can do, you will agree.
In conclusion, if tomorrow we follow the excellent work of our rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Bortone, and change direction, it will prove that this Parliament truly cares about the interests of goodfaith manufacturers, I would say, and of European consumers. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur, who has had a tremendous job of work to do.
We cannot allow foods that are high in salt or sugar to be marketed as being good for children’s health.
We must therefore demand that the whole of a product’s content be taken account of when health claims are made.
You cannot live without salt or sugar.
I should like to make another proposal, which could be a followup to yours.
Some weeks ago President Barroso assured us that he would ‘Lisbonproof’ all legislation coming from the Commission.
I agree with the basic principle behind the proposal before us that consumers should not be misinformed, but I have serious doubts about the Commission’s approach, especially in relation to nutrient profiles and implied health claims, i.e.
The emphasis should be on encouraging healthy lifestyles and healthy diets, not on censoring information, as is the case in relation to the socalled nutrient profiles in Article 4 of this proposal.
As a fallback position, I support the proposal put forward by the PPEDE Group and others at committee stage and now resubmitted by the ALDE, namely to decouple Article 4 by requiring a study into the scientific basis of nutrient profiles before making a decision on their implementation.
Such an approach does not allow enough flexibility to take account of new products placed on the market.
The industry chooses to use a health claim in order to sell a product.
That is why we must make sure that the industry that chooses to use this marketing tool carries out the requisite tests to ensure it is providing correct information.
As for children, we all agree that there is a need to protect them.
Through these legislative and nonlegislative procedures we can offer protection to children.
Finally, Madam President, I apologise for exceeding my speaking time and I would like to say that a complete list of the Commission’s position on all the amendments is available to Parliament.
We therefore believe that this form of positive list will survive.
Owing to various problems affecting the committee and myself, it has taken longer than I would have wished. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Nine amendments are acceptable, subject to redrafting: 7, 18, 28, 42, 45, 52, 61, 76 and 84.
Seven amendments are acceptable in principle: Amendments 10, 13, 15, 37, 38, 51 and 101.
This draft regulation is of great importance.
It is included in the package of proposals made by the Commission in the scope of the financial perspectives and defines the rules for financing the common agricultural policy.
The purpose of this regulation is to clarify and simplify these financing rules, to improve our management and control system and to adapt and reinforce our rules on budget discipline, taking into account the reform of the CAP decided in 2003.
The bringing together of the rules relating to the two new funds in one single regulation must be considered as a major simplification concerning the rural development policy where we stop using different financial rules for the same measures depending on the region where they apply.
The single management and control system chosen for both funds takes advantage of the good experience we have acquired in the field of the EAGGF Guarantee Section.
I would also like to draw your attention to the new system for the followup of irregularities and recoveries.
This regulation on the financing of the CAP would not be complete without the relevant rules on budget discipline.
These rules are, however, also reinforced where needed and adapted to the new rules we decided upon in the reform adopted back in 2003.
My position on the amendments is as follows.
I have to inform you that this proposal was based on a recommendation from the Court of Auditors, as well as from Parliament.
However, if you adopt these amendments, taking into account the fact that all Member States also ask for this time limit to be reduced to 24 months, I will accept them.
The proposal for a flatrate approach on recoveries in the event of irregularities is a fundamental part of the Commission’s proposal.
The past has proven that the existing system which needs a casebycase, yearly examination of the more than 10&#160;000 outstanding recovery files is impossible.
The flatrate approach shares out the financial responsibility equally between Member States and Commission, once the normal period for the recovery has elapsed.
For cases in which recovery action is taken in courts, we now propose to allow for a normal period of eight years.
Furthermore, it makes the whole system superfluous as once a final judicial decision is taken, there is no reason to apply the provisional flatrate solution of sharing the financial burden between Member States and the Community budget. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen – those of you who are still here despite the late hour – first and foremost, I should like to express my thanks for the good cooperation, not only with all of the groups in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, but also and above all with the Commission and its officials, as well as with the Council Presidency and all of the staff in Parliament and in our groups.
This report on the financing of the common agricultural policy is also – as you have already mentioned, Commissioner – closely connected to the report on rural development.
On the positive side, it should be noted that this proposal genuinely simplifies the structure of the current legal bases for financing, in particular in respect of rural development policy in the period 2007 to 2013.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is using the corresponding Commission proposal to create a common legal framework for financing these two components of the common agricultural policy.
Rural areas have a high status in the European Union, particularly in the ten new Member States.
More than half of our EU citizens live in rural areas, which make up around 90% of EU territory.
The development and implementation of positive strategies and prospects for the future are a top priority.
The 2003 reform of the common agricultural policy brought permanent changes for the European agriculture and forestry sectors, and in the process of this reform rural areas have become even more important, so as to meet the Lisbon and Gothenburg objectives.
Rural development policy is a policy for people everywhere in the European Union.
It cannot be said often enough that in the battle over the EU budget, our ambitious aim must be to ensure that appropriate resources are allocated to rural development, the second pillar.
Commissioner, you have my support in this fight for a balanced budget for the future of rural development. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mrs&#160;Schierhuber has done an excellent job of drafting this report, and there is very little room for improvement.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is crucial that the necessary checks be carried out on the billions of euro that the European Union spends on the common agricultural policy and on other Community policies.
The EU should set an example to the rest of the world in the way it disburses funds, and, most importantly of all, it should meet all the standards for counteracting corruption.
EU funds should be distributed according to objective criteria, with the use of transparent procedures and systematic checks.
All too often, the way in which EU funds are disbursed is anything but clear and transparent, and the necessary checks are lacking.
The most stringent checks should not be carried out on the recipients of funds, or in other words on farmers or selfgovernment bodies, but on the institutions responsible for distributing EU money.
They are not entirely objective, as it is sometimes the case that irregularities in disbursing these funds are not only the result of mistakes made by the Member States, but also of those made by the Commission itself.
There is an urgent need for more stringent checks by external bodies.
The role of the Court of Auditors must be strengthened, and it should not merely issue positive statements, but also point out actual irregularities.
To guarantee an impeccable system of budgetary control, the Commission is proposing extensions to the deadlines for embarking on the recovery of funds that were paid in error for the wrong reasons.
Their concerns are rather more basic.
I wish to address the issue of the technicalities.
I know the Commissioner believes very strongly in rural development and, indeed, believes that it is the future for agriculture policy, a view shared by the OECD.
I hope that it will be possible to reach a political compromise on this issue during the Luxembourg presidency.
On rural development, I would like to say to Mrs&#160;McGuinness that we share a common vision.
Therefore, I can only encourage those who are really in favour of this policy to put pressure on Member States to finance it to the level we regard as necessary, in order to give rural development policy a proper future. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
Nevertheless, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has tabled this oral question to the Commission to ask it to play a more proactive role.
You may remember the shock caused in 20022003 when some traders in Dutch bluechip equities challenged Euronext Amsterdam to lower prices and to providing improvements in services, by looking for an alternative trading venue with Deutsche Börse and the LSE.
The question is whether different scenarios increase this competitive tendency, or go in the opposite direction and tend to create monopolies situations for which, by the way, competition regulation might be a more appropriate answer.
As regards the part of the financial market which is already supranational and operates crossborder and often crosssector, one of our main messages is to create real convergence in the implementation of the European directives and real convergence of supervisory practice, thereby avoiding regulatory arbitrage and possible competition on other factors for establishment such as fiscal and cost aspects.
It is regrettable that this debate is being held at such a late hour, but I thank the Commissioners for being here and wish Mr McCreevy, who was supposed to be here, all the best with his health.
The Commission also favours the combined intervention of market forces and public authorities to ensure fair competition between all forms of securities trading venue, including exchanges in regulated markets, as well as newer trading devices, such as multilateral trading facilities and the internationalisation of orders in investment firms.
Concerning the application of Council Regulation (EC) No&#160;139/2004, the merger regulation, as well as the competition rules more generally, the Commission would like to recall that these rules apply to all industry sectors equally.
Therefore, I am usually in favour of the national competition authorities doing their jobs.
One of the central issues in the investigations being conducted by the competition authorities is to ensure that a merged entity includes mechanisms to ensure that competition rules are respected, also for the medium and long term.
The Commission cannot take a position on an individual corporate decision made by the New York Stock Exchange and its future strategies.
In Europe we have found ways of ensuring that regulatory functions are kept at a sufficient remove from the commercial interests of exchange, and there is no reason to suspect that this will not be the case in other developed markets.
I would like to thank Mrs van den Burg for mentioning this issue.
The national competition authorities are clearly taking this issue most seriously and the Commission is confident that they are examining all aspects which could potentially impact on competition.
That would, of course, cover posttrading activities, as explicitly mentioned in the FTA’s decision in the cases referred to the Competition Commission.
Such things can sometimes be successful or sometimes fail. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
