Framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia (debate) The next item is the report by Martine Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council concerning the progress of the negotiations on the framework decision on action to combat racism and xenophobia.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, the European Union is based on humanist values, of tolerance, multiculturalism and protection of fundamental rights.
The fight against racism and xenophobia is one of our priorities, but we must bear in mind Article 10 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is devoted to freedom of thought, conscience and religion while respecting the inalienable right to freedom of expression, in accordance with Article 11 of this same Charter.
The Commission presented a proposal for a Framework Decision on racism and xenophobia in November 2001, in order to bring closer together the legislative provisions of Member States in relation to racist and xenophobic offences and to fight more effectively against racism and xenophobia in Europe.
Until now, and despite an initial opinion issued by the European Parliament in July 2002, this Framework Decision has been at a standstill.
Having said that, in order to compensate for these weaknesses, I call on the Commission to present in parallel a proposal for a directive on the fight against all the forms of discrimination listed in Article 13 of the Treaty, in order to strengthen European legislation in this area.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Roure for her speech and for her report.
We have worked hard on this aspect and I believe that the final result is satisfactory.
This is an important principle, and I believe that the fact that all 27 Member States have accepted it unanimously puts the European Union in a better position to uphold this key value listed in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish first of all to apologise for Mrs Esteves, shadow rapporteur for my group, who unfortunately will not be able to take part in this debate.
It is an honour to our European democracies and an honour to our Parliament.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I am not only indebted to Mrs Roure for her report, it also receives my unqualified support.
Last year, my resolution on racism in football met with overwhelming support in this House, and I hope that this will also be the case for Mrs Roure's report tomorrow.
This is probably an accurate figure, but as I see it, 494 million citizens are the victims of racism, because if racism goes unpunished, then this has a damaging effect on society as a whole.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her commitment on this ongoing dossier, which should have been on the statute books before now.
The Director of Human Rights First stated that 'victimising one member of a particular group threatens all members of that group and causes immeasurable harm to society at large'.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Roure for her persistent work with the Council in putting together this framework decision.
I believe that the initiative adopted by the Council, but above all the work carried out by Mrs Roure in this Parliament, will serve as an effective tool for the political efforts and for continuing this work.
I believe that this is vital and that we need to implement strong political measures and important cultural action. (LT) Mr President, Commissioner, colleagues, in the Berlin Declaration adopted on 25 March this year it is stated: 'European integration has shown that we have learned from our history full of bloody conflicts and suffering'.
However, it does not deal with similar crimes committed for other reasons, such as hate and violence against certain people because of their political beliefs, or their affiliation with a certain social group, or the social situation of groups of individuals - for example, the crimes perpetrated by totalitarian régimes.
Even in this Chamber and in some national parliaments it is not uncommon to hear speeches steeped in extreme nationalism and xenophobia.
This text does not, in itself, constitute the concrete action needed to address the persistent problems of racism and xenophobia in Europe today.
It is necessary to try to prevent racism and xenophobia by means of a policy of education as early as possible and by means of political and social discourse aimed at preventing the dissemination of hate and the promotion of xenophobia and racism.
Written statements (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - I have become increasingly concerned by the rise of racism and xenophobia across the EU, both in new Member States and established Member States.
