We have the Helios reconnaissance satellites, the German SAR Lupe ones and the Italian Cosmo-Skymed.
We note that we are already spending a sizeable amount of the European budget on security, firstly on security research, secondly on GMES, the satellite observation system, which also has security connotations, and now on Galileo.
We are in fact spending EUR 750 m of the budget on security aspects.
The Commission described the importance of space applications for the European Security and Defence Policy in its communication on European space policy last year.
The report stresses that the European Union is allocating more than EUR 5 billion to financing space projects under the current financial perspective.
I want to leave no room for doubt here, so that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past: GMES has a multi-use potential, we do not deny that, and this multi-use potential should and must also be used sensibly, to avoid duplication and unnecessary costs.
A central concern of our policy is the use of space for purely peaceful purposes.
The European Union - and here I can refer to various European Parliament resolutions - supports every initiative to prevent the weaponisation of space.
With regard to the first objective, it is important to emphasise that we are not talking here about the use of space for military ends.
The report also underlines the importance, frequently ignored or feared, of Galileo and other European national programmes for a serious common foreign and security policy.
We should make it quite clear that the issue here is the militarisation of space by the European Union.
We keep saying we want a system that is independent of the USA, but now Boeing is clearly interested in this tender, so that does not seem quite true any more either.
Space and security and defence policy would of course require a common communication system, and the report underlines the necessity for Galileo to be used for an autonomous European security and defence policy.
More and more countries are becoming involved in space projects, with space having started to play an increasingly large role in our lives.
I can only urge Parliament to see its role as also ensuring that in this difficult situation in which we find ourselves, where things are not just black and white but there is also a large grey area, we still proceed in a manner that does not compromise our values and our principles.
If, for instance, we station Galileo or observation satellites in space to find out what is happening, it is done for the security of our citizens.
The second step is that Galileo is of course a civilian project, somewhat different in type from the American system, but that it is also necessary and that it is available for operations by EU forces in, for instance, Congo, Bosnia and Herzegovina or Chad.
The vote will take place tomorrow, 10 July 2008.
