President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, we are all aware that we are continuing to suffer from one of the most severe financial and economic crises for many years.
The Union and the Member States have taken a wide range of measures both to try to mitigate the effects of this crisis, and also to address some of its root causes, while also taking into account the pressing need to better prepare ourselves for the future in order to face the challenges of the global economy.
Most directly affected are those who have already lost their jobs as a result, or the many more who risk losing their jobs over the months to come.
The Spring European Council agreed that an Employment Summit should be held in order to allow for an exchange of experiences on the extent to which the recovery measures taken have succeeded in supporting employment and creating new jobs and more jobs.
The Summit will take place in Prague this Thursday.
The mandate given to the Presidency was clear.
Our objective is to ensure that the Summit is not just an opportunity to talk, but that it produces concrete outcomes and recommendations which will benefit society as a whole.
The European Commission will be represented by President Barroso and Commissioner Špidla.
Representatives of the European Parliament have, of course, been invited as well.
In order to help prepare for the Summit, three workshops have been organised in the countries of the three participating delegations: in Madrid, in Stockholm and in Prague.
These workshops have especially addressed the issues of upgrading skills, increasing access to employment, and how to maintain employment, create jobs and promote mobility.
The workshop on skills upgrading, which took place in Madrid, highlighted that skills are the key to preparing for the future.
The case for upgrading skills, which is endorsed by all stakeholders, is not just about formal qualifications, but also about promoting areas such as communication skills amongst young people.
The issue of financing the acquisition of higher skills cannot be overlooked, especially in a time of crisis.
It is particularly important to ensure that social protection systems serve as a springboard into new jobs, and not just as passive safety nets.
But we must offer the unemployed a chance to improve their skills and employability, and to quickly find a new job which has been created somewhere else.
This wide-ranging report is complemented by that of Ms Lambert on how to include people who are frequently excluded from the labour market.
The Czech Presidency supports the long-term employment targets of the European Union and has repeatedly emphasised the need to better motivate people to seek employment and to improve their employability.
The Global Adjustment Fund provides support for workers made redundant as a result of globalisation.
I am pleased that there is agreement between Parliament and the Council on amending the Fund, and I am grateful to Ms Stauner for her work on this.
By introducing greater flexibility in how the Fund is used and by reducing the number of redundancies from 1 000 to 500, it will become an ever more effective instrument for helping to tackle the effects of the economic down-turn.
As I said at the outset, we are looking for a concrete outcome which will benefit society as a whole, as well as European citizens.
We cannot hope to resolve the effects of the current crisis in a single meeting, but we should focus on specific recommendations and initiatives which will together play a role in mitigating the effects of the crisis and help us emerge from it even stronger.
The Commission is working tirelessly to ensure that everyone with political responsibility in Europe hears this call, and devotes all of their energy to seeking an end to the crisis.
In March, the European Council approved the initiative by the Commission and the Council's Czech Presidency to devote a summit to the 'employment' dimension of the current economic and financial crisis.
This issue has been our main concern since the start of the crisis, and led to our proposal for a European economic recovery plan last December.
The European dimension is absolutely vital for two main reasons.
Our response must be perceived in this way, as a response stemming from the importance we give to certain essential values.
Secondly, Europe really can change things and make a contribution.
The national governments, local authorities, social partners, and all the stakeholders in Europe, are all trying to find solutions to the consequences of unemployment.
The input of this Parliament into that process has been most valuable.
The workshops organised in Madrid, Stockholm and Prague have proved an excellent focus for the phase of gathering ideas about what works best.
The European Economic and Social Committee has played an active role in gathering ideas from its national counterparts, which will enrich the debate - in fact, I will be meeting the Economic and Social Committee in Prague.
I would like to point to four key issues that have emerged from these events.
First, the top priority must be to keep people in jobs, to do everything possible to prevent a new hike in unemployment.
Young people need our active support to find apprenticeships or further training so that they can find and keep jobs in the future.
We need to prepare people for the jobs of the future: green-collar jobs and jobs in other growth sectors, such as health and the social-care sector.
I regard the issues covered in the Silva Peneda report as an important part of this Commission's legacy: an approach of access, solidarity and opportunity to ensure that our policies fit both our enduring core values and the realities of society today.
We cannot separate our economic and our social agenda: there can be no economic recovery on the foundations of social collapse, just as there can be no social progress in an economic desert.
Allow me to focus on one issue for which I feel a particular paternity, and that is the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
As President of the Commission I will take this agenda to the European Council in June, for the attention of all 27 heads of state and government.
It was first created in 2006 and was supposed to be a clear sign that globalisation does not just have positive effects on workers, but through mass redundancies, and especially through company relocations, can also have negative repercussions for workers.
Now the effects of globalisation have been completely overwhelmed by the financial and economic crisis and our measured reaction is the adjustment of the funding criteria of the EGF.
I would also like to note that, for the future, the coexistence of the EGF and the European Social Fund should not be overlooked.
The majority of the Committee on Employment came out in favour of temporary validity for the regulation which is to be amended, so that the provisions will now apply to all applications filed by 31 December 2011 and, as regards content, will affect those workers who have lost their jobs as a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis.
This means that from 2012 we must once again reflect on the continued validity of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
In terms of content it undoubtedly represents an alleviation, if the trigger figure for redundant workers in a given region is reduced from 1 000 to 500, and, at the same time, the payment period is raised from 12 to 24 months.
I would like to thank you for your constructive cooperation at every stage, both in committee and with the Council and Commission, and ask you to support the amendment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few months while I have been preparing the report on the Renewed Social Agenda, the effects of the economic, financial and social crisis affecting Europe and the world have been getting worse.
According to the latest Eurostat data, in February 2009 over 19 million men and women were unemployed in the European Union.
Given this scenario, if nothing is done, the rise in unemployment will definitely be followed by more poverty, more social exclusion, more insecurity, more crime and, in particular, more distrust.
We take the view that unemployment - the most visible face of this crisis - does not simply mean a loss of income for those who are unemployed and their families: unemployment discourages you and can lead to a loss of confidence in yourself and in those around you.
Even before the crisis that we are facing today, the Member States of the European Union were already being confronted with social problems stemming from weak economic growth, a complicated demographic situation and the difficulties of living in an increasingly globalised world economy.
Firstly, the institutions of the European Union can play a vital role by reaffirming the importance of the social models and infrastructures of the Member States, thus helping to build consensus on the importance of universal access to these models and infrastructures, their high quality and particularly their sustainability.
Secondly, we have to mobilise all available instruments to ensure that more people are better integrated into the labour market.
The third priority stems from the conclusion that there is still much to do to ensure full mobility for citizens within the European Union.
The fifth priority which the Commission has tried to implement, even today with the planned vote on the report on the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, concerns making the European Structural Funds more flexible.
To ensure that European citizens can understand and deal with the changes brought about by the current context, social dialogue must be reinforced in order to increase transparency in decisions on social adaptation and economic restructuring.
I tend to say that you have to go through a period of turmoil in order to get to a period of cooperation in social dialogue relations.
It is vital that social policy goes hand in hand with economic policy, to ensure a sustainable recovery not only of the economic fabric, but also of the social fabric.
There is one point on which I want to be very clear: the crisis that we are experiencing cannot be used as a pretext to cut social expenditure.
We have been hearing this afternoon about a time of recession increasing risks of exclusion unless we are very careful: the risks of people now losing their jobs and maybe not making it back to the labour market at some point in the near future; those who are already in difficulty not even being able to access the labour market; and then of course there are those who are not even part of the labour market.
One of the things we agreed in the committee was that active inclusion should not be replacing social inclusion, that wider field of feeling that you have a role to play in society.
We are generally in broad agreement with the Council and Commission in their recommendations on this, in terms of adequate income support, and this report uses that phrase.
We have got a growing problem with the working poor within the European Union.
We also agree concerning the issues around the inclusive labour market.
The European citizens have been demanding a strong social Europe for years.
I hope that this will help to mobilise everyone on 7 June.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion, I would particularly like to say something about the amendments to the EGAF, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, and express my appreciation for the Commission's proposal over the agreement reached with Parliament at first reading.
I am particularly encouraged by the following: one, that we have temporarily extended the possibility of using the EGAF, making it an instrument of the European recovery plan to respond to the world financial and economic crisis and support workers who have lost their jobs; two, that we have reduced the minimum number of redundancies required to be eligible for support from the fund from 1 000 to 500; three, that we have raised the EU cofinancing rate in particular cases to 65% for this stage.
Lastly, I hope, as stated in the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development, that the Commission submits an assessment of the effects of the temporary measures by the end of 2011 and gives Parliament an opportunity to revise the legislation if necessary.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Education. - (NL) Mr President, the importance of the renewed social agenda is clear, particularly in view of the current economic crisis.
The content of education must correspond to vocational and practical requirements.
Lifelong learning is also very important.
It is crucial to strike a balance between family life, work and learning.
Gender equality and respect for the principle of nondiscrimination in general are basic preconditions to active inclusion in the labour market and the social integration which must accompany it.
In particular, I consider it important that emphasis is placed on support for family members of all ages, intergenerational solidarity and the help which must be given to vulnerable groups of the population in the difficult times which a family may go through, so that it can be useful to society at all times, without difficult circumstances in its life leaving their mark.
I say this because it demonstrates clearly that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament does not have a monopoly on socio-political topics, but that these topics concern us all.
These reports should ensure that European Union policy can react effectively to the economic and social challenges.
Everything we want from the Community must also appeal to a majority at home, because we do not have the authority to do everything that people expect of us.
Full employment will become a goal, the sustainable social market economy will become the European social and economic model and fundamental social rights will be enshrined in the treaty.
Therefore, I urge the Commission to submit a proposal for a financial transaction tax by the end of the year and to put forward a concrete European initiative with two goals.
Now employees who have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis can also be supported and we have increased the cofinancing to 65%.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, I shall focus on what was intended to be a summit, but did not turn out to be one.
We shall have higher unemployment over the next few years, with perhaps 26 million inhabitants unemployed in the EU in a year or so.
It is a question of environmentally sound investments which are long term, but which also provide jobs in the short term.
If we do this now, people will receive the necessary training and it will strengthen Europe for the future and reduce unemployment.
In summary, something can be done now, unemployment can be reduced, Europe can be strengthened for the future.
Europeans often ask what we do here in the European Parliament, what good we do for them.
I think that it is one of those reports which are designed to help people and I would therefore like to congratulate all of my colleagues, Mrs Stauner and the Commission, and the Council, for reaching an agreement at first reading.
This report will be adopted tomorrow, in a particularly speedy procedure, not just because it is important for people, but because this fund is now designed for the crisis, so that people who have lost jobs can receive support.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I thank the rapporteurs for the tremendous amount of work they have done on these reports, coming, as we said in an earlier debate, at a very important time when people are looking for answers and looking for ideas on how to move forward.
It contained many difficult dossiers and many difficult ideas which many people in industry, in particular, were opposed to but also, uniquely, which a lot of people involved in trade unions were against as well.
If our experience since 1994 can show us anything, it is that first of all we must ensure that all social policy is predicated on the basis of delivering results for people - not just merely massaging figures, but actually making people's lives better.
As well as that, as President Barroso rightly mentioned himself, despite high employment participation levels in many countries in recent years, many people with disabilities, and 74% in total, were unemployed, despite the fact that they had access to education and training, because of the psychological barriers and blockage that existed.
We should also be considering what we do with sectors that have been orphan sectors in terms of skill developments - not least the care sector at the moment - and really look at how we can ensure equality there.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have touched a raw nerve with their reports and have made it clear how essential joint action by the Member States and the European Union is to ensure that the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis are not borne by those who are worst affected by it, namely, those on the bottom rungs of society's ladder.
The fight against poverty could be a truly humanitarian way to start fighting the economic and financial crisis globally and the European Union is duty bound to do this.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, if globalisation causes redundancies, there will be a shortfall in revenue so the Globalisation Fund will not have the money it wants to spend.
Our committee chairman, Jan Andersson, was right to propose a text adopted by a large majority on the Committee on Employment in order to convey to all the committees, particularly the Committee on Budgets, that it was important to communicate with the Member States, so that every employee, every member of a trade union, and every member of the public can be informed in their own language of the existence of this European Fund.
The problem is that it is not being properly implemented across all Member States and we must be even more vigilant in making sure that we are monitoring it properly.
I am also pleased that my amendment on mandatory retirement age was accepted.
However, even if people are not excluded from work but cannot get to work because they cannot get the access they need, that leads to exclusion as well.
We also need to do more to integrate people with mental health problems and those who have alcohol or drug problems.
Finally, a quick word on the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
This is extremely important for people in my West Midlands constituency, as elsewhere in the UK. (PL) Madam President, 16% of Europeans are at risk of poverty.
We can only hope that the Council and the Commission will also take these demands seriously.
Secondly, we need industrial and environmental policies, but also cohesion policies, that put an end to dumping within Europe.
In my constituencies, those who have lost their jobs due to the closure of two companies - Waterford Crystal and Dell - could qualify.
However, thousands have lost their jobs because of global economic conditions and it is unfair that they are disqualified because they do not work for big multinationals but for small and medium-sized businesses.
This way, we could extend this funding to 500 workers who have lost their jobs across a sector like farming, food processing or IT, or in a specific area, like Tipperary, Waterford, Limerick, Cork or Kerry.
Madam President, mistrust and fear have taken root in our societies: unemployment is growing and in my country is doing so in dramatic fashion.
Economic progress and social progress are not divergent paths; quite the opposite: if we want to stimulate growth and provide more, better quality jobs then we need to and must implement the social agenda, starting with all that inspires the greatest consensus.
The social agenda cannot be separated from a renewed Lisbon Strategy, because economic success sustains social benefits and social benefits also contribute to economic success.
We cannot bury our heads in the sand; we need to modernise our social model, precisely in order to improve it and make it fairer and more sustainable.
We must rid ourselves of that burden and implement the social agenda. (RO) The European Union has been admired for a long time for its social model.
However, we have been observing for a good number of years the undermining of the right to work and social rights.
Can I just add a couple of things that, ideally, we should not do.
Finally, can I say that all of us clearly have different views on all sides of this House, but one thing we have in common is that we all care about the issues, which is why so many of us have been overrunning our speaking time.
I personally am delighted that my final speech as coordinator, my final speech in this plenary, should be on such an important subject.
That must change urgently if we are to ensure progress towards our objective of a better society. (DE) Madam President, the European social models face great challenges.
In particular against the backdrop of the current financial crisis, measures at European level must be coordinated.
I would therefore also like to thank the rapporteurs very much for their excellent work.
However, I refuse to accept the demand for the introduction of minimum wages in all Member States, as called for in paragraph 14 of the report by Mr Silva Peneda, whom I would otherwise like to thank for his work.
I particularly support the idea that we must secure a basic income for everyone, but I refer back to Member States' competences for establishing appropriate limits.
I declare myself in favour of a social Europe.
We need to invest to give workers the skills to work in that new economy.
And finally, Philip, I will miss you - a bit like a toothache! (Laughter) (CS) Madam President, along with the collapse of financial markets, the growth in unemployment is one of the two main problems arising from the current economic crisis.
I also regard it as crucial to coordinate individual measures within the European Union.
There is a need for measures to motivate people who become unemployed to try to find new jobs.
In this context, I take a positive view of the proposal that people who have lost their jobs as a result of the current economic crisis should be able to draw funds rapidly from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
In my opinion, the newly proposed 75% cofinancing level is too high.
In this context, the forthcoming EU summit on employment should clearly establish a common framework and specific proposals, and should also bring to a close the discussion on changes to the Globalisation Fund. (NL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when the Commission's social agenda was first discussed last year, I said I thought that the programme lacked ambition, that it was too little, too late.
I think his report shows that, at all events, the European Parliament wants to see a great deal more ambition in this field.
At the start, when the idea of the European Union was born, it was clear that we wanted to base our social policy on a regulatory framework found in almost all Member States, namely sound labour law to guarantee that no one falls by the wayside and collective bargaining to safeguard workers' position in the labour market.
We must, before anything else, defend those workers who unfortunately were laid off as a result of this crisis, and I believe that today it is easier to help these people re-enter the labour market.
This evening we also agreed to do our utmost to create more jobs in Europe.
On the contrary, we want the workers to decide for themselves.
I was the first Irish Member of this House to identify the possibility to deploy these funds in the recent job crises in Limerick, Waterford and Tralee, three important locations in my own constituency.
Special mention should be made of the new ratio of funding between the Commission and Member States, plus the temporary lowering of the threshold for unemployment from 1 000 to 500.
I believe that these reforms will send a strong signal from the heart of Europe to those unfortunate enough to be buffeted by the gale-force winds of economic crisis that there is help available to them to help themselves retrain and upskill their way to future prosperity. (ET) I also support the reorganisation of the globalisation fund.
Reducing the limit to 500 would thus also definitely give Estonia - where the unemployment rate is already very high - opportunities, and the changing of the percentage of financing required would also be very favourable.
I think the debate was very important and constructive, just with regard to the merits of the issues.
I think we are benefiting simply from the fact that this debate is very timely, immediately before the meeting which will take place on Thursday in Prague.
I think this debate will contribute to the outcome of the summit to the same extent as all the preparatory work that we carried out with the Commission and which materialised in the form of those three important workshops in Stockholm, Madrid and Prague.
We should not lose sight of the fact that, notwithstanding the European Employment Strategy, employment policy remains essentially a Member State responsibility.
A key element of the strategy in place since 1997 has been the role of mutual learning in the search for a solution to shared problems in the employment area.
So it is our hope that, with the help of the European social partners and on the basis of the preparatory works in the form of these three workshops as well as this debate here, the European Employment Summit will succeed in identifying further steps which can be taken as a matter of urgency to respond to the serious situation which currently faces our citizens and to help us to create a Union which is stronger and also more competitive in future.
It is clear that we are meeting at a time when Europe and the whole world are facing a crisis.
I think there is also a progressive increase in the will and the ability to act jointly, because now, for the first time, Europe has responded to crisis in a coordinated way with its plan for economic renewal, by using the power to coordinate at Community level and at the level of individual Member States.
The Commission regards the issue of employment and unemployment as an agenda priority and proposes that it should be a priority on the agenda of the EU as a whole.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have debated a number of individual issues within the scope of the social agenda and during the debate a number of questions have arisen in connection with changes to individual funds.
I would like to point out that the proposed agenda was mostly prepared before the onset of the crisis, but in spite of this I want to make it clear that it was and still is a good basis for facing the crisis.
I think the European social model is more than just a reaction to the crisis, however serious this may be.
It is a process and it is a very long-term political and social strategy, and it is precisely that long-term aspect that is built into the social agenda.
On the question of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund and the issue of changes to the European Social Fund, I would like to express my thanks for the excellent cooperation, because the dialogue has been so constructive that the achievement of our aims is within reach at this meeting, and I consider that to be extremely important.
Some specific questions were raised in the debate, which I would like to answer.
I would like to make it clear that all applications submitted after 1 May this year under the proposal which is in its closing stage will be processed according to the new rules.
I think that effectiveness should always be monitored.
I have had the opportunity to visit East Karelia, where there was discussion about using the fund to help people who had lost their jobs through restructuring at Nokia, and I can say from this experience that discussions clearly showed that the great majority of those who had lost their jobs considered the assistance given to them by the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to be necessary, rapid assistance which was useful to them.
I would also like to underline something that was not so explicitly emphasised in the debate, although the European Social Fund is a well-established institution which helps millions of people annually, and helps them very effectively.
Mrs Lambert emphasised the importance of social inclusion.
The European social model is a model of an active society, where activity in the labour market is the key element.
However, it is not a model that accepts only those who are participating in the labour market, because a large proportion of our citizens are, for various reasons, not participating in the labour market and yet it is very important that they should have the opportunity to participate actively in society and that they should play an active part.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in my view, the social agenda and the employment agenda are gaining in importance and that this is a process which is progressively making itself felt in all EU strategies, as it is in all of the proposals for changes to the long-term plans and outlook of the European Union.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would like to add to the Commissioner's remarks on the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF).
The EGF is also part of the European social model.
We had intensive discussions with the Commission and I would like to stress that in this case our reaction is swift, but high calibre in terms of content and quality.
It is a compromise which I and my colleagues are very proud of.
I would like to direct a small appeal to the Commission: please do not only take residual funds out of the European Social Fund (ESF) for the EGF, but collect other residual funds from the budget.
To my fellow Members Mrs Lynne, Mrs Sinnott and Mr Burke I will say, by way of example, that the EGF can achieve a lot, but it certainly cannot solve all regional problems.
In view of the economic and financial crisis, we must also revise the Lisbon Strategy.
I played a very active part in various reports, on various subjects, in particular the review of the European Social Fund, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, flexicurity, the report on the European Social Model, the Working Time Directive, and now the European Social Agenda.
I believe that, during this legislative term, here in the European Parliament, we have set a good example of how to cooperate, and the result of this work on the Renewed Social Agenda is clearly based on this idea.
I am therefore very much in favour of the words spoken here in this House regarding the summit on employment and social policies.
Finally, this is my last speech in this Parliament and I want to thank - on behalf of the President - all the Members, and the Commissioner and the Commission, for the way in which they have cooperated with me over these five years of intense and exciting activity in this European Parliament.
I want to stress at this point that one of the dimensions we raised in the inclusion report was that of the local level, and certain local economy dimensions.
However, in terms of the local authority dimension and the services dimension we talked about as well in connection with the report, another area that the committee particularly wanted to stress was the subject of housing, because, again, in times of economic downturn, there is more and more pressure on people who maybe find themselves unable to afford the housing they are in.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 6 May 2009.
Europe has to take this opportunity to reduce unemployment.
Moreover, Europe has to invest in education, especially in life-long learning.
In spite of every effort we have made since our accession in 2004, a situation of 'competitive' poverty has gradually evolved in the EU.
The economic crisis has obviously exacerbated the situation both at Member State level and among ordinary citizens.
After all, ordinary citizens rightly expect the European Union's institutions not only to help the banks, but also to provide them with social security.
The next Commission should assess the transposition of the Posting Directive in Member States.
There are industries or sectors of the economy, such as the financial sector, car industry and sales sector, which are feeling the impact of the crisis more severely as they have been obliged to curtail their activities and make staff redundant, something which we are also noticing in Romania.
According to one survey, during the first quarter of 2009 there were three times as many redundancies recorded as new jobs created across the European Union.
I think that this may be better achieved if the EGAF is targeted at unemployed people who come from the same region or neighbouring regions and even from different Member States, if they share a common border.
On the one hand, we must show solidarity to those who are losing their jobs, while on the other hand, we must help them return to the labour market.
Professional retraining and specialisation according to the areas of development and the specific resources available in each region may help create new jobs.
Today it is very important that social involvement and related labour market policies should also be sought through an integrated and united approach within the recovery plan for the European economy.
In addition, Member States should not sacrifice social affairs, health and education in cuts made while reviewing their budgets, because these are precisely the areas that contribute to bringing people at risk of poverty back into society.
In these new conditions, we must make our social assistance system more flexible; the present situation demands that we do so.
in writing. - (FI) It is amazing, in fact it is unforgivable, that the EU Social Summit and Dialogue with the Social Partners should be conducted at troika level, without the attendance of the Heads of State or Government.
