&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 28 April 2005. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement commemorating the end of World War II in Europe.
The figures are horrific: 60 million dead, the systematic extermination of peoples and minorities, cities and regions reduced to ash and rubble, economies ruined and 30 million displaced people from amongst the civilian populations of all the warring countries.
The other half was the victim of the new world order that was created in Yalta.
On 1 May we marked the first anniversary of our reunion with the countries that were taken hostage after Yalta.
And this gives greater meaning to this 9 May, Europe Day, on which, 55 years ago, the foundations were established in order to respond to the desolation of war, in order to guarantee that it would never happen again, and this response is now complete with the arrival of the new countries that have joined the Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like today, a day on which we are commemorating three events which differ from each other, but which are related, to be a day of reflection: 55 years since the beginning of the European adventure, 60 years since the end of the war and one year since reunification.
The streets of our cities are full of names of people and circumstances, of events that shaped our history and which are part of our collective memory: the Westerplatte in Gdansk-Danzig, the Place Montgomery in Brussels, the Stalingrad metro station in Paris, the Boulevard Dresde, just a few metres from here, and military cemeteries of both sides dotted across Europe.
All of this is our common memory, the memory of a continent that today has overcome what then was the subordination of the individual to the State and disregard for law and for human dignity.
And we must do so in the knowledge that what the citizens of Europe expect from their Union is no longer peace, because we Europeans already have peace amongst us and we all believe it to be irreversible.
I would like to present a young Latvian, born in Riga, Miss Baiba Skride.
Alejo Carpentier said that the baroque was undoubtedly the style that most reflects European cultural diversity.
In spite of her youth, Baiba Skride has played in the most prestigious concert halls in the world and I am sure that the improvised concert hall we have created from our Chamber will be added to her curriculum vitae today.
Miss Skride’s talent and youth are accompanied by a violin made by Stradivarius in 1725 and which is known by the name Wilhelm, in honour of the famous German violinist August Wilhelm, to whom it belonged for almost 50 years.
I propose that you listen and at the same time watch — because sometimes music is also to be seen rather than simply heard — this evidence that our European Union is a synthesis of history, of talent, of youth and hence of the future.
We now have a point of order that had been raised earlier. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I find it astounding that people in this House who are elected to hold the executive to account should vote against the proposal. &#160;&#160; You have raised a point of order and, as you know, you must tell me which Rule it refers to. &#160;&#160; I wanted to point out, in the light of what I said, that I did not have time to vote in favour of the proposal, and I wish to have that added to the Minutes.
No amendments have been proposed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, further to Rule 154 of the Rules of Procedure in conjunction with what Rule 132 has to say about Rule 150, an objection has been raised to the Dombrovskis report, on which the Committee on Budgets voted even though a full voting Member raised an objection to oral amendments.
Therefore, I would like to ask President Borrell, as a Catalan himself, to present at the Presidential Meeting this petition of Intergroup’s, which requests that the Catalan language be used by Catalan speakers at future plenary sessions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the west of France, in Guérande and Saumur, as well as in Spain, in Barcelona, nearly 800 job cuts are expected as a result of internal relocation within Europe.
Europe’s decision to devote a little more than EUR 11&#160;billion to the regions and people hit by restructuring is a good decision.
Hopes for a European social model in aid of the 25 countries of the Union that is based on strong social cohesion can only exist if our Institutions implement real and significant policies of territorial and human solidarity.
That is why it is today essential to capitalise on this strong political desire by supporting the men and women undergoing intra-European relocation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to draw the Members’ attention to the fact that the International Day against homophobia occurs on 17 May, which is next week.
I would therefore like to urge all Members to include those people in their commemoration next week. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week we celebrated the first anniversary of the largest enlargement to date of the European Union.
The accession of the ten new countries hailing from the former Soviet bloc and Yugoslavia, the Baltics and the Mediterranean is, undoubtedly, the most significant and historic event in the history of the Union.
General de Gaulle dreamed of a united Europe from the Atlantic to the Urals.
I come from Ireland, a country whose economy has been transformed from little more than that of a poor, Third World country into one of the strongest in Europe, courtesy of European assistance through membership, and I wish all the same benefits and success to our ten new neighbours.
The political and economic reunification of our continent is a victory for the spirit of Europe, one of which we should all be proud. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are only a few hundred Hungarians living in Latvia today but if we believe in humane minority rights, however, then we must also mention their deprivation of rights.
In all cases, discrimination is inexplicable, especially in the case of Hungarians, as we were also victims of the same Stalinist oppression.
I hope that, in the spirit of common democratic values, my Latvian colleagues will urge their government to eliminate this form of discrimination. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to congratulate you for the sensitive manner in which you spoke a short while ago about the sixty years since the end of fascism, since the end of the genocide of Europeans and, in particular, of Jews.
However, the month of May brings to mind another case of genocide by one of Hitler's predecessors, Κemal Ataturk, who, when he entered Samsun on 19 May 1919, slaughtered half a million Greek Russians.
I therefore wish to ask you, Mr President, to arrange a day in memory of these Greek Russians and a day in memory of the Armenians.
The agreement concluded between these two countries in August&#160;1939, known as the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, made it a foregone conclusion that the two socialist dictatorships would carry out a joint military attack on the other democratic nations of Europe.
Shameful as it is, this is what really happened, and we should not forget it in our endeavours to construct a political vision of the unification of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to draw your attention to tomorrow’s vote in the Temporary Committee on the Financial Perspective for the 2007-2013 period.
The socio-economic situation in some of the regions most reliant on the sector is serious and could become even worse if the Commission and the Council continue to shirk their responsibilities. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I have drawn the Commission’s attention to the problems relating to soft fruit faced by the EU Member States, in particular Poland, on many occasions, both in writing and orally.
With effect from 1 January 2005, quotas on textiles and clothing became a thing of the past in Europe, and, since then, dramatic changes have occurred.
Within three months, textile imports from China have risen by a quite considerable extent – by 700-800%, in fact.
I therefore call on Members of this House not only to support the Commission in its action to deal with these developments, but also to use their influence on it in such a way that these measures may be made even tougher and even more effective. &#160;&#160; Mr President, following the referendums on the European Constitution in the different Member States, we have to establish that in the debate on this Constitution, the arguments that are being put forward are not always correct.
A week later, the Dutch Prime Minster, Mr Balkenende drew a link between rejection of the Constitution and Auschwitz.
It has disputed the crimes committed in Katyn, where thousands of Polish officers were murdered, as well as the genocide committed in the labour camps and the illegal annexation of the Baltic States.
It was for this reason that the leaders of Lithuania, Estonia and Georgia boycotted the ceremony.
Mr President, could you please send a letter of strong protest to the Turkish Prime Minister, telling him in no uncertain terms that, if he is to have us believe that Turkey seriously has European aspirations, then he must, amongst other things, make sure that the rights of religious minorities and, in particular, of Christians in Turkey, are properly protected and respected? &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the affection felt for Europe by many European citizens is, unfortunately, beginning to wane.
I should be grateful, Mr President, if you informed the Council and the appropriate Commissioner of my proposal for resolving this issue: the compulsory marking of prices in both euros and the old currency; the price shown in lira should be double that in euros.
Even though it was agreed that Poles would hold 17&#160;of these posts, there is not yet a single Polish director-general, deputy director-general, director, chief advisor or head of unit.
Furthermore, there are still no Estonian, Latvian or Slovakian directors-general or deputy directors-general.
In 1999 the European Union forced Britain to adopt a form of proportional representation for the European parliamentary elections.
I believe that the President should take action on this matter, and that we should send a delegation of observers to France to find out whether democratic principles are being violated. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform the House of the disastrous situation in which the Polish fishing industry has found itself as a result of the protective measures put in place by the European Union.
Although the Commission, as of course the McCartney family understands, cannot intervene in judicial investigations and proceedings by the Member States, it wishes to take this opportunity today to pay homage to the courage, dignity and quest for truth and justice on the part of the McCartney family.
The Commission cannot but express its admiration for the strong and courageous stand taken by the McCartney sisters in their campaign for justice.
While there is no such thing as freedom without security, there is also no such thing as security without justice.
On behalf of Mr Poettering, the leader of the PPE-DE Group, on my own behalf, and particularly on behalf of my colleagues in the Irish delegation, I would like to pledge our fullest support to them in their courageous, dignified and determined pursuit of justice for their brother Robert’s brutal murder.
It was perpetrated by up to 12 killers, a significant number of whom are known members of the provisional IRA.
Initially, Sinn Féin’s Alex Maskey vehemently denied IRA involvement but, two weeks later, having spoken to the family, Sinn Féin’s Gerry Kelly issued a statement on the matter and they accepted IRA involvement.
This killing was ruthlessly supervised and forensically covered up by men announcing that their activities were IRA business, by men who proceeded to intimidate the 70 witnesses to the crime and their families, first forbidding them from calling an ambulance on the night in question, as Robert McCartney bled to death before their eyes and his colleague lay seriously injured.
In tonight’s motion, we are calling ‘on the leadership of Sinn Féin to insist that those responsible for the murder and the witnesses to the murder cooperate directly with the PSNI and be free from the threat of reprisals from the IRA’, or indeed to cooperate with the Ombudsman of Northern Ireland.
The appalling offer by the IRA on 8 March 2005 to shoot dead the perpetrators of this awful crime is abhorrent and barbaric and has been met with incredulity in the civilised world.
The rule of law Sinn Féin advocates, and the IRA enforces, is a brutal regime of terror, intimidation and violence.
One parallel to, and incompatible with, democratic society.
One so grounded in illegality and criminality that it constitutes an affront to the very concept of justice and leaves its victims, such as the McCartney family in this case, powerless and without redress for their terrible loss.
But these brave women, the McCartney women, through refusing to be intimidated in their four-month campaign for justice for their brother and their partner, have achieved more to highlight the residual thuggery and criminality that has existed in Northern Ireland since the official IRA ceasefire than either of the two governments or the political establishment in Northern Ireland have managed to achieve in the last decade.
Today we, the European Parliament drawn from 25 Member States, add our voice to that of the Irish Government, the British Government and the United States Congress, in support of the McCartney campaign for justice.
By bringing the killers of Robert to justice, there is a bigger statement being made in terms of a total rejection by all decent people of this continued wanton killing, maiming and violence.
I hope we will be in a position to help Robert’s family if the necessity arises, if none of the witnesses, nor indeed the IRA or Sinn Féin themselves, are brave and honourable enough to supply to the Police Service of Northern Ireland or the Ombudsman the information necessary to institute criminal proceedings.
Even if a political grouping has definite objectives, it must nonetheless accept differing opinions, and so let me reiterate our wholehearted support for the McCartney family, for these courageous women, these courageous sisters, as they continue their struggle.
On my own behalf and that of the ALDE Group, I warmly welcome the sisters and partner of Mr&#160;McCartney to the European Parliament in Strasbourg today.
The circumstances of Robert McCartney’s murder shocked very many people.
It is not possible in such a short time to give any meaningful background to the situation in Northern Ireland, but like any area where there is conflict, it is always a complex situation.
With regard to peace funding, the EU has enabled many people of goodwill to contribute to peace-building in Northern Ireland.
This weekend, I attended a vigil in London to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the death of Brian Douglas at the hands of the police.
Brian’s family is not alone: there are many such cases in the UK where people have lost loved ones to such violent deaths, yet no one is punished or held to account publicly in a court of law.
That is why my Group has decided to support the spirit of the resolution, despite some of the wording and difficulties concerning the possible financial contribution from the Union, which is why we have asked for a separate vote on that issue.
We wish to take this opportunity to reiterate our gratitude to them for having been able, in April, to meet them and to assure them that our group is alongside them in the search for their brother’s murderer, in their quest for justice, in their search for peace of mind, and in seeking to bring about the social conditions that enable people with differing views to live together in peace.
In its motion for a resolution, my group’s sole concern is with the case of Robert McCartney, and it makes no attempt to establish a connection with certain political groups that are alleged to be responsible for his murder.
Since the tragic killing of Robert McCartney, I am concerned that politicians have pushed their own electoral agenda in the context of the recent elections and have lost sight of the real point of all this.
A man has been unspeakably, brutally murdered and the perpetrators have been able to walk freely and have not yet been brought to justice.
I ask this, not as a Member of this Parliament, but rather as a mother who cannot imagine the pain this courageous family is going through.
But, as a mother, I mostly beseech those with information on the thugs who perpetrated this act to come forward.
The women of the McCartney family – Paula, Catherine, Donna, Gemma, Clare and Bridgeen – who are ordinary women in every aspect of their lives, have done something extraordinary.
It is now incumbent on those who have influence in Northern Ireland and those who have influence on these members of the IRA and other political organisations to give them up to the police service and the prosecution; to allow for justice to rule and prevail.
It is up to us, in Parliament, to ensure that if this is not done at a political level in Northern Ireland, we can assist them on a legal level. &#160;&#160; Mr President, right at the outset I salute the superb courage of the McCartney family.
In exposing and standing up to the thuggery of Sinn Féin/IRA, the McCartney sisters have shown remarkable bravery.
And the man who ordered the killing still struts the streets of Belfast in the company of the IRA’s chief of intelligence, Bobby Storey, and leading provisional IRA man, Eddy Copeland.
Sinn Féin/IRA could secure justice for the McCartney family but their priority is to protect their own.
If Sinn Féin/IRA succeed in denying criminal justice to this family, then I endorse the call that the EU should help fund an action so that the killers and conspirators can be pursued at least through the civil courts.
Finally, I would add that the EU fund should also be available to the many other victims of the IRA, who for years have been denied justice because of this same intimidation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by adding my words of welcome to the McCartney family here this evening in our House, and pay tribute to their courage, strength and determination in what they have achieved and in what they have tried to do.
I wish to give my wholehearted support to the McCartney family in their quest for justice for their brother Robert.
The great danger now is that the further we get away from the terrible events of 30 January, the more likely that this – like so many other murders of innocent people in Northern Ireland over the last 35 years – will go unsolved and will be forgotten about.
It is a well-known fact that the provisional IRA and Sinn Féin are inextricably linked.
I do not want to see it in any part of any society in which I would want to live, in Northern Ireland in the future.
We have suffered enough for far too long and we want a better life for everyone. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this Parliament has a very good record as a strong supporter of the peace process in Northern Ireland and, indeed, we were strong backers of the peace fund for Northern Ireland.
The McCartney murder has shown that this is happening in Northern Ireland.
Frankly, we have reached a crucial point in the peace process.
That is why we would support the use of the budget line for aid to the victims of terrorism in order to provide finance for any civil action taken by the family – money, I hasten to add, not directly for the family but money for a court action.
Time is running out for the peace process and that is why we need to maintain our pressure on those responsible for the murder and cover-up because, unless we resolve this issue, the peace process will fail completely. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree with all speakers here today who have said that there is no argument for paramilitary justice.
Nobody in Parliament today has condoned or justified the terrible act, but all have called for justice.
That will help to prevent the recurrence of such acts as the murder of Robert McCartney.
However, right now there must be an insistence that those who cold-bloodedly murdered Mr McCartney and those who witnessed it should cooperate fully with the police service of Northern Ireland.
There is a phrase often used in Northern Ireland politics: ‘We all jump together’.
Mr President, Sinn Féin supports the McCartney family’s demand for those responsible for Robert’s murder to face trial and will continue to do all that it can to help them.
Our party has met with the McCartney family a number of times.
I have pledged them my support and the support of our party.
Sinn Féin President Gerry Adams has called on those responsible to come forward and admit their responsibility for this horrendous murder.
They have refused.
Two members were expelled for refusing to follow this instruction; four others resigned; the other six remain suspended pending a report to our party’s national executive.
As a Sinn Féin MEP and as an individual, I could not campaign for the victims of British or Unionist paramilitary thuggery if I was not as clear and as committed to justice for the McCartney family.
Those responsible for the brutal killing of Robert McCartney should admit to what they did in a court of law.
But the leadership of Sinn Féin and the IRA has the power and influence to bring the thugs and criminals who murdered Robert McCartney to justice if it so wants.
Yesterday an article was written by Jim Cusack in .
If half or one-third of what he wrote is true, then Sinn Féin/IRA has a serious problem about controlling what is happening in the communities it says it represents.
I support this resolution and the proposal for the family to be given full funding for any legal fees it may incur if it goes to trial. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I, too, want to welcome and salute members of the McCartney family, who continue their crusade for justice outside Ireland and within it.
On 30&#160;January, their brother Robert was murdered by members of the Irish&#160;Republican Army in Belfast.
This is not the only brutal murder that has, unfortunately, taken place on our island in the last 30 years; but this one has caused many across the world to sit up and recognise the activity that is continuing in Ireland seven years after the historic Good Friday Agreement.
A savage murder was ordered outside a pub in Belfast less than four months ago, carried out by psychopaths, witnessed by 70 to 80 people.
Since then, there has been such intimidation within the community that it has resulted in silence: people live in fear of reprisals if they speak out.
In this House, we have representatives from the political party Sinn Féin who, by their own admission, have a special relationship with the IRA and that is why we refer to them.
Both the Irish and British Governments describe them as two sides of the same coin.
It is also a fact that Sinn Fein’s influence within communities in Northern Ireland can bring about justice in this case.
But what we hear are words and more words of support instead of actions on the ground.
Robert McCartney’s sisters continue their quest for justice and we must support them here in this House where we can.
We need to end impunity where it exists: outside the European Union, where we have influence; but more importantly, within the European Union and in this case in a community in Northern Ireland.
This Parliament can help by raising the issue and also potentially by providing finance, as stated in the motion for a resolution.
The week before last, we in this Parliament adopted a resolution on human rights.
We must lead by example and do the same in Belfast. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the sole purpose of this resolution is to achieve justice for the McCartney family – whom I welcome here this evening – by insisting that normal policing and judicial procedures be allowed to take their course in relation to the murder of their brother Robert.
It is claimed by Sinn Féin that the murder of Robert McCartney was not politically motivated.
It is also a fact that the so-called IRA is the most active and politically driven perpetrator of violence and intimidation in Northern Ireland, that it engages in widespread criminality in Northern Ireland, in the Republic of Ireland and also in Britain and does so to enforce its rule of law and to fund its activities.
I would urge the House to support the joint resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too welcome the McCartney family here this afternoon and offer them my support in their efforts to get justice in the appalling murder of Robert.
The fact that most, if not all, of the people involved in this murder are either members or supporters of the IRA or Sinn Féin in no way excuses their actions.
Even more importantly, the failure of Sinn Féin’s leadership to ensure that justice is done in this case undermines the cause of Irish Republicanism.
The cause of Irish Republicanism must be completely separated from common criminality now and in the future.
The actions and statements of the Sinn Féin leadership over the last few months have failed to make any significant progress in getting justice for the McCartney family.
As the leaders of the largest republican party in the six counties, and in particular after last week’s election, they have a duty to separate the cause of Irish Republicanism from the acts of common criminals.
They also have an obligation to the McCartney family, who have a right to expect justice for the murder of Robert.
Once again, I would like to express my deep admiration for these brave people: the McCartney family. &#160;&#160; I have received two motions for resolutions(1), tabled in accordance with Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The Bathing Water Directive dates back to 1976 and since then, a great deal has changed, not only in terms of how we think about the environment, but also about what exactly must be regulated at what level and how.
You can, of course – as indeed I did – question how useful it is to determine at European level the standards with which bathing water and coastal and inland waters in the European Union must comply, whether we should lay this down at European level and whether European action in this area represents any added value.
The main reason why they do so is that the old directive is unworkable and, in environmental terms, pre-historic.
I can understand the position of the governments who want the system to be affordable.
It is also for that reason that I think that we should not include recreational waters in this directive, but should do so at some point in the future.
With regard to the European Commission's report on the 2004 bathing season, I wish to inform you that it will be published by the end of the month, and not just in Greek but in other languages also.
The Commission considers that many of the changes made to the common position improve the Commission's initial proposal.
The Commission therefore decided to support the common position which, even if far from ideal, does nonetheless represent a significant improvement over present arrangements under the current directive.
The current legislation, which is nearly 30 years old, urgently needs updating.
There are those countries that believe that the new quality standards impose particularly heavy burdens on them, and the amendment is intended to allow them more time to prepare themselves for their greater rigour and to deal with any problems they may have.
The Maaten report would tell Member States in which language they should provide information on water quality.
I regard the Bathing Water Directive as a good example of the sort of directive that Europe can well do without.
The creation of a legal framework in this area should remain a matter for the Member States, for I certainly cannot see it having any effect on the internal market.
Personally speaking, I would go even further than this directive: we believe, in actual fact, that if the draft directive on the quality of bathing water remains as it is, it will exclude recreational activities, which will discriminate between bathers and other users of coastal waters and continental waters, and we cannot accept that.
These activities and recreational and competitive sports carry as much of a risk of swallowing water as simple bathing, and we are all aware of that fact.
In answer to the Commissioner, I believe that everyone is in agreement that we should invest in the quality of water when this costs nothing.
The revenue of my country, with its outstanding beaches, depends to a large extent on tourism, and European tourism in particular, which is demanding when it comes to clean waters, as are Cypriots.
I believe that the 2011 deadline gives local authorities enough time to make arrangements for the sort of tests they will need to carry out and to develop an appropriate infrastructure.
If the objective is to improve and maintain the quality of European bathing waters and protect citizens, I find it hard to understand why the Council does not wish to develop a public information system.
There is little evidence of Parliament’s position at first reading.
In addition, the distinction drawn by the Council between salt and fresh water is dictated by the wish to reach a compromise within the Council.
We all know that the present directive no longer meets present-day requirements, but I do think that the new directive should raise the bar a little higher.
Finally, I should like to wish the rapporteur much strength.
Let us hope that the Council realises this and that conciliation can be avoided. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is a very useful and important revision of the 1976 Directive.
We should remember that it does mean real improvements in water quality within the ‘good’ and ‘excellent’ categories now proposed.
The implementation of the 1976 Directive has taken 30 years at least and cost a lot of money.
That has meant a 15% year-on-year increase in water rates and I do not think people will be prepared to pay a lot more for a much more demanding directive.
Unlike Mr Blokland, I am in favour of keeping the category of ‘sufficient’.
I know that some want to delete it, but it seems to me that given that the new ‘good’ and ‘excellent’ standards are much tougher, and that even with investment some beaches may fail, especially after rain, we need the ‘sufficient’ category as a sort of probationary category.
This is a great improvement and we should remember that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mr Maaten on his work.
I appeal to all Members, and to the Commission, to maintain the core of the proposal as it was tabled, that core being a high level of protection by means of high standards for good and even excellent bathing water.
The Commission has based its work on research by the World Health Organisation, but the Council, in its common position, is showing that it has a very cynical side.
The European bathers simply want to know whether the water is safe for themselves and, above all, for their children.
I would point out that, according to the last report made public by the Commission in 2003, nearly 96% of coastal sites and over 91% of freshwater sites were in compliance with the quality standards laid down by the directive.
If we want this new directive to bring about the improvements desired by one and all, and in particular, if we want it to be applied in practice, we must get rid of this slightly restricted legalism at all costs.
We want a practicable law – we have said it, the rapporteur has said it – a directive that also provides us with the means to inform and to fight effectively against all forms of pollution, the majority of which is, moreover, less and less accidental, since in the case of bathing waters as well, we must address the causes of environmental pollution and their impact on the health of citizens from Europe and elsewhere. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this directive is particularly popular; our fellow citizens are very attached to it and, since 1976, new public health requirements have obviously appeared as a result of developments in scientific knowledge.
Firstly, it is important to implement appropriate measures in order to provide the public with good information.
This directive must therefore be applicable and flexible, as has already been pointed out.
Matters such as these should be taken into account, but at the same time we must ensure that all Europeans are afforded the best possible protection with regard to bathing waters. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have in our hands a strategic directive, because it reflects the basic problem with the EU environmental policy: that is, the enormous differences in circumstances between the Member States.
Tightening the deadline from 2015 to 2011 will be problematic because of the timetables for the implementation of the water framework directive.
The same problem applies to the standardisation of values for coastal waters and fresh waters.
The compromise proposal drafted in Parliament is more of a step in the right direction.
Some Member States, of course, would certainly prefer to let the project fail rather than agree to more stringent values. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too believe that the directive we are about to put to the vote is of great importance for Italy and the Member States, as it will enable us to overcome some of the inflexible elements of the directive currently in force, which result in a large number of prosecutions for infringements.
The Commission proposal defines three standards for grading these waters.
Adopting the ‘sufficient’ category would extend the legal validity of the 1976 bathing-water directive without meeting the minimum requirements of the values set by the World Health Organisation.
I therefore hope that this House votes in favour of keeping the three original categories, and I propose that they are implemented by the initial date set of 2011. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, our committee often receives mediocre proposals from the Council.
The fact that Sweden does not measure the water quality at more than 800 such places is not a sign that we are some sort of European Wild West.
If the European Parliament is now to compel all the Swedish local authorities to measure water quality at every location bar none, I actually have a good mind to vote against the whole proposal.
In reality, the problem does not reside in all the details I mentioned but in the fact that the EU is regulating issues in a sphere in which Europe is so manifestly diverse.
Although this is all very important to us, we would, at the same time, say that a number of requirements covered by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety actually went way too far and did not really add anything, or would not have added anything, by way of extra public health protection.
I happen to know that in nature reserves, only on account of the faeces of birds, for example, the source of pollution is so diffuse that bathing water will never be of a good quality, that it can never remain ‘sufficient’.
That is too crazy for words and I hope that no one in this House will back this notion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Scotland has found it very difficult to meet even the 1976 Bathing Water Directive.
Scotland sometimes even has beautiful weather, when tourists and local people flock to our beaches.
It would be perverse and severely damaging if Parliament, led by the Green brigade who, sadly, know so little of the real world were to remove the ‘sufficient’ classification in this new directive and condemn Scotland’s beaches to the loss of their coveted and deserved status among the best and most beautiful in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in my home country, Hungary, there is a saying we use to describe the situation when someone overshoots the mark in an act of good intention, and in the end does more harm than good: he throws the baby out with the bathwater.
I certainly agree that our goal is to ensure excellent bathing water quality in Europe.
The Commission is also very happy to accept the idea of developing common symbols and signs to be displayed at bathing sites.
However, the Commission welcomes the spirit of compromise behind Amendments 36 and 55.
Therefore, while the quality standards for the sufficient category are far too stringent, the Commission could accept the principle of the amendment.
With regard to the distinction between coastal waters and fresh waters, the Commission cannot accept the amendments that remove this distinction, nor those amendments directed at bringing forward the dates when the new quality standards become effective.
However, the direction suggested by Amendment 35, whereby the Commission commits to conducting a study on this issue and reporting by 2018, is acceptable.
Member States can go further and faster, and competition between tourist locations will push things in this direction.
The Commission can accept the following amendments in their entirety: 2, 9, 10, 13, 17, 19, 21, 25, 26, 33 and 35.
The following amendments are acceptable in part or in principle: 15, 16, 22 and 55.
The following amendments are not acceptable: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 14, 18, 20, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 53 and 54. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Oral Question (B6-0237/05) by Karl-Heinz Florenz to the Commission, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Commission’s strategy for the Second Meeting of the Parties to the Aarhus Convention. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, the Aarhus Convention was adopted in 2001, but it is an unfortunate fact that only 17 European countries have as yet signed up to it.
As a Member with an interest in these matters, I would like to know, and perhaps the Commission will tell me, why it is that relatively few countries have in fact signed up to this Convention?
Where the three pillars, in particular, are concerned, I am sure that there are many countries that – like my own – have the most enormous difficulties with the issue of ‘access to justice in environmental matters’.
I would be interested to know whether the Commission and the Council are aware of the need for sufficiently precise and fair prior negotiation, and also of the extent to which national parliaments are consulted on conventions of this kind.
This meeting will provide an opportunity to review the application of the Convention and the Protocol on Pollutant Release and Transfer Registers.
In addition to adopting directives on access to information and on public participation, it has made significant progress, especially with the proposal for a regulation on the application of the Aarhus Convention to Community agencies.
The Commission is particularly satisfied with the interest expressed by the European Parliament and, in particular, by the inclusion of three of its members, including two rapporteurs on the Aarhus proposals, as observers in the Community delegation to Almaty.
Of course, according to the interinstitutional agreement, the Commission will report regularly to the Members of Parliament on developments in the negotiations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Parliament has worked with the Aarhus Convention since 2000, when we received the Commission’s version of the first pillar of the Convention: the right of the citizen to environmental information.
This is essential in order for democracy to function in a world where environmental issues have an ever more central role.
Consequently, as the meeting in Almaty approaches, we will likewise work on the assumption that the matter at hand – the subject of biosafety – will be debated in the same spirit, with a respect for the rights of the citizen.
We want the decisions taken at the second meeting of the Parties to the Aarhus Convention to promote its implementation and development, and we want multilateral agreements on the environment, such as Kiev or Cartagena, which are important for the Aarhus Convention and the issue itself, to achieve a synergic impact between them.
The Aarhus Convention is an important element in a functioning democracy.
Former Socialist countries of Central and Eastern Europe had a certain level of environmental policy, but it was strictly understood as a state policy without any kind of public participation.
For example, the PSE Group, with our rapporteur Guido Sacconi, is very active on the new legislation on REACH and on the evaluation and authorisation of chemical substances.
If we ratify the Aarhus Convention, we must put it into practice in our legislation day by day.
It is important that the European Union sends a coherent message to the other Parties to the Convention and that, at the same time, we demonstrate our commitment to its principles and rules.
With regard to the question posed by the last speaker on the proposed directive on access to justice, the Commission stresses that the ratification by the Community of the Aarhus Convention prior to the adoption of the directive on access to justice does not imply that the directive is no longer useful or opportune.
The Aarhus Convention has broken new ground in the way the public is involved in decision-making relating to the environment.
The Parties and signatories not only need to put in place or adopt administrative procedures, they also need to gain experience, exchange it with other parties and learn from practice.
Of those 24 Member States, 19 have ratified it so far.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the proposal for a recommendation of the European Parliament and of the Council on film heritage and the competitiveness of related industrial activities (COM(2004)0171-C5-0133/2004-2004/0066(COD)) (Rapporteur: Gyula Hegyi (A6-0101/2005).
That will facilitate the exchange of information and the interoperability of the databases that are kept by the film archives in all Member States.
The Commission will also promote cooperation between film archives.
The report and the amendments discussed today reflect the thorough work by the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs on the one hand, and the presidency on the other.
The Commission is grateful to all the key players who made it possible to reach a good compromise today.
The Commission proposal, as amended by Parliament, recommends that Member States introduce an obligation to deposit cinematographic works that form part of a Member State’s audiovisual heritage and that have received public funding.
Also, and in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, the text gives Member States the option as to how to implement this obligation, by law or by means of contract: we leave that up to Member States.
In the space of a year the first films were shown all over Europe in cafes, theatres and other public places.
The invention of the talking movie definitively changed the world of cinema.
This paradoxical situation should be tackled through subsidising cinematographic products with national and European funds – not the film industry as a business but its cultural and linguistic plurality, which is the very essence of Europe, needs that funding.
The national film archives play an important role in preserving our film heritage.
In doing so we can ensure that our film heritage will really become our common and public heritage.
The digitalisation of European films, the setting up of a common database and the cooperation of the national film academies and archives serve a common aim: to save our film heritage and to make it accessible to everyone.
This proposal, in the form of a recommendation, aims at ensuring a more systematic deposit and preservation of European films to safeguard Europe’s audiovisual heritage.
I believe that due to a very constructive approach by my Parliament colleagues, Mrs Descamps and Mrs Gibault, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, as also the inclusive and active role played by the Luxembourg presidency, a good compromise for first reading agreement has been achieved.
This dossier shows the added value of codecision and serves as a good example of how Parliament and the Council can together agree on a number of important issues that can make the initial Commission proposal more comprehensive and effective.
In order to know what collection each Member State has, the report proposes a network of databases, where already functioning Council of Europe institutions such as the European Observatory in Strasbourg can play an important role.
I believe that a good compromise has been found.
I ask you to support the report to enable the first reading agreement, which would be in the interests of our common film heritage.
While I have no problem with American culture or with the American film industry, I believe it is important that we protect European culture and improve the European film industry in any way we can.
If one looks at the success of the industry in India, Bollywood is a case in point of where it can be done and has been done.
One means of tackling this problem is through the provision of state aid.
I welcome the fact that the Commission cinema communication identified the importance of state aid to the film industry as a means of promoting culture.
Mr Hegyi’s report therefore aims, on the one hand, to ensure the preservation and conservation of our national and European film heritage and, on the other hand, to improve the conditions required for the competitiveness of industrial activities related to this heritage.
Another essential point in this report concerns the nature of the deposit of cinematographic works within organisations commissioned by the Member States, which should carry a legal or contractual obligation.
It is furthermore specified that this film heritage should include the production, but also the co-production of films between Member States or between a Member State and a third country.
Finally, a point appears in this report that, in my view, is crucial: the aim for film to be taught at every educational level, and for younger generations to also learn a little about history, everyday life and sociology, thanks to the richness of European film heritage.
I should like, in particular, to point out three crucial points that appear in the report.
Firstly, it is clear that the cataloguing, preservation and restoration of works are essential to safeguarding cultural diversity in Europe.
Secondly, the report rightly points out the importance of undertaking a systematic collection of cinematographic works thanks to the legal obligation for a system of deposit.
I should now like to point out the links between this report and the discussions taking place on European programmes in the field of education and Media 2007.
This report demands a more active approach on the part of the Member States in the field of visual education, particularly of professional training and media literacy.
We must henceforth all learn to better read images, which have become the essential vehicle for communication between mankind.
Access to bank loans is crucial for independent producers, given the way films are financed.
I am also pleased that it has been possible to reach a compromise with the Council, thanks to which, I hope, this report may be adopted at first reading, thus allowing European film heritage to benefit as soon as possible from all the guarantees that this recommendation is going to provide.
I have followed the drawing up of this document very closely, which is of very special interest to us, the French, since we invented the cinema.
All of the films by the Lumière brothers have been restored by the French Film Archive and have recently been released on DVD.
I am thinking of André Bazin, François Truffaut and Henri Langlois.
With good reason: our government does not adequately support it.
Government support for film is crucial in the global market of the film industry.
I congratulate the rapporteur and I shall be giving a copy of the report to the Scottish Government. &#160;&#160; – All possible measures should be taken to preserve the film industry in EU Member States and accord it the value it merits, given that it represents historical, cultural and human heritage.
Our film heritage must be protected, because it contains a significant proportion of our memory, it expresses our cultural identity and illustrates the diversity of our peoples; as the rapporteur points out, it deals with all aspects of our lives since the end of the 19th century.
It is also an economic asset the protection of which can contribute to growth and employment, as well as the promotion of the innovation, research and technological development policies that promote general industrial competitiveness.
It is no coincidence that, in some Member States, film production is already recognised as a cultural asset in law.
I agree, moreover, with the rapporteur both on the focus on disabled people – ensuring better access to deposited works – and on the need to preserve all cinematographic works, and therefore not just those benefiting from public funding, as laid down in the Commission proposal: all of these works have contributed to the history of European cinema, giving an insight into the various trends and influences of different periods.
For this reason Member States need to support their film industries, national film academies and film projects, or a gap will appear in the film records of parts of the history, life and culture of the nation.
These films make it much easier for us to understand the development and the progress of life on our continent and elsewhere.
This report rightly emphasises the important role which the national film archives have in preserving European films.
The Member States must give serious consideration to the application of a system of mandatory deposit of new film productions in their film archives.
This will result not only in the preservation of old films, but also in the creation of jobs.
The decision to approve the proposal for a recommendation at first reading brings us one step closer to its application, so that substantial measures can start to be taken as quickly as possible in order to preserve the film heritage.
Parliament, the Commission and the Council are on the same wavelength, and that is a good thing, because we are talking here about nothing more or less than preserving our common heritage, building upon our roots and ensuring that not only our rich film heritage of over a century is preserved for future generations but also, and in the same way, the cinema created today and in the future, since this is our future heritage.
This is a duty we owe to our cultures, and it is good that all our energies should be combined in taking action along these lines.
Access is, however, also needed to this heritage that has been made available, and, in this respect too, I am in agreement with Parliament, which wants our young generations to be taught to read images.
I am convinced, however -&#160;and I make this commitment to you&#160;- that European cinema needs assistance and that we shall continue to offer it help. &#160;&#160; Together with this House, I offer my thanks to Mrs Reding.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday. &#160;&#160; The next – and last – item is the Commission statement on the state of negotiations between the European Union and Mercosur.
In January&#160;2005, Presidents Barroso and Lulla da Silva met in Davos.
We should remember that the negotiations began with an ambitious, indeed strategic, objective: to construct a strong alliance between the two blocks, which have much in common, including parallel visions of the international order.
The idea of restarting the negotiations on the basis of the best offers was largely taken up and supported by all the European Union and Mercosur negotiators at the EU-Mercosur Business Forum in February.
A technical meeting took place on 21 and 22&#160;March to prepare for the ministerial meeting that was to restart the negotiations.
In particular, the Union’s offer on agricultural products is the most substantial that has ever been made in any bilateral agreement.
At times, it is very difficult for someone such as myself, interested in global trade patterns, to monitor the number of different bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations going on all the time outside the framework of the Doha Round of the WTO – which, I hope, will ultimately make such biregional deals redundant in the future.
Currently, in Latin America the EU has successful free-trade agreements with Chile, in the shape of an association agreement – which also enables additional close political cooperation and key human rights and democracy commitments by both parties – but also a similar agreement with Mexico.
One such major bloc is Mercosur, consisting of four Latin American countries – Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay – with Chile and Bolivia having associative status.
Mercosur’s fortunes have waxed and waned in recent years over the imbalances in trade between Argentina and Brazil in particular – a matter constantly under criticism from Argentina, which last September proposed to Brazil a safeguard clause to which Brazil refuses to agree.
There can be no doubt that President Lula da Silva of Brazil and President Kirchner of Argentina are still jostling for power to see who is perceived as the principal interlocutor with the United States of America ahead of President Bush’s visit.
I look forward to hearing how Commissioner Mandelson will bring this project forward after the breakdown last October, as it would appear to me there is no real political will on Mercosur’s side.
Please allow me, Commissioner, to address my comments and questions to you in my capacity as a member of this Parliament’s Committee on International Trade and of its Delegation for Relations with Mercosur, which will be on an official visit to Brazil next week.
Secondly, how do you intend to reconcile access to our market for developing countries with the protection of our fisheries and agri-food industry sectors?
The problem is that if we want more WTO, it would be better to wait until the WTO is operating in its present form before forging ahead.
That is precisely the conflict between the countries that want to move ahead bilaterally as quickly as possible and others that want to wait for a WTO decision.
The Union’s offer on liberalisation of the trade in goods is more generous than that of Mercosur in terms of the products it covers, the dismantling of tariffs and the timetable for that dismantling.
The offer relating to access to Mercosur’s market in services remains unsatisfactory in a number of key sectors of interest to the European Union, such as financial services, maritime transport and telecommunications.
To summarise, the Commission is available to the honourable Members to provide them, before their mission begins, with all the information they will need in order to help establish, under the best possible conditions and as quickly as possible, a balanced relationship between these two regions of the world. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
