Future of Europe (debate) Ladies and gentlemen, ¡Bienvenido al Parlamento Europeo, señor Rodríguez Zapatero!
I would like to express my sincere thanks to you for accepting the European Parliament's invitation to attend this debate on the future of Europe, a debate which is a very significant one for this House.
Several Prime Ministers from around the European Union have already visited us to discuss the issues that are important for the future of the Union, including Guy Verhofstadt, Romano Prodi and Jan Peter Balkenende.
Prime Minister, I think it is important to mention that Spain was the first country, in 2005, to hold a referendum on what was then the draft Constitutional Treaty, and 77% of Spaniards voted in favour of this draft. (Applause) It is therefore a particular pleasure to be able to welcome you, Prime Minister, here today, shortly before the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon which comes after a long period of reflection and, indeed, crisis: a Treaty into which the substance of the Constitutional Treaty could be incorporated.
Spain has always demonstrated - and this applies to all the major parties - that it is a country with deeply held European convictions, a country which takes the initiative and is willing to show active commitment to the shared future of our continent.
President of the Spanish Government. - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As a committed and active pro-European and as Prime Minister of a deeply pro-European country, it is a matter of great pride to me to appear today before this Parliament, the most representative House of Europe.
For many years we kept alive the hope of us joining this process started more than 50 years ago.
The success enjoyed by Spain in the last two decades stems to a large extent from the social dynamism created by our membership of the Union and from our effective use of the means placed at our disposal by the solidarity of the members who preceded us in this project.
The European identity has been forged over a long history darkened by tragedy, but also illuminated by humankind's most noble creations, by the light of thought, the warmth and creativity of our artists, the deep convictions of our statesmen and women and the courage of our people.
This new, ever larger Europe will only be successful if we reinforce solidarity among all the Member States.
Europe is now immersed in a process of great strategic import: the creation of a common area of freedom, security and justice, the development of the Schengen Area and the system of external borders.
Spain has developed measures which are being successfully applied, but much remains to be done.
We can also use the experience of recent years in which we have equipped ourselves with civil and military crisis management capabilities and successfully deployed in the most challenging places such as the Congo or Bosnia.
Our social model has become richer and stronger.
Spain has supported the European Union and the European institutions and will continue to do so.
Many thanks. (Standing ovation) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, esteemed Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I want to thank the Prime Minister of Spain for his thoughts on the direction of the European Union.
It is not easy for me to speak on behalf of the PPE-DE Group on freedom and the European Union, basically because there have been personal experiences in my Group which so typify the defence of freedom and which are so recent in their occurrence that I cannot find sufficient or adequate words to explain the deep and real meaning of the European Union for our Group.
It is in these countries too that we must try to consolidate our framework of principles and values.
We are pleased, too, that you came here after the Lisbon Summit, and that you came here just 72 hours after your nomination as candidate.
That was a very memorable sentence from the head of the government of Spain, a country which for 40 years suffered under a ruthless and brutal dictatorship, and which gained its freedom and democratic diversity through its integration into Europe.
However, we owe you a debt of thanks too, for the fact that Spain has succeeded in these endeavours.
The same applies, incidentally, to Greece and all those countries which had to overcome Fascist dictatorships and set a course towards the European Union in the early and mid 1980s.
As you yourself said, Prime Minister, if the European Union's structural and regional policies have the same economic effects in the countries which joined the European Union on 1 May 2004 as occurred in Spain, Europe as a whole can look forward to a very positive future, and that is why Spain is a model for Europe. (Applause) Prime Minister, Spain - you put this very well - has won out as a result of its integration into Europe.
Very few heads of government in Europe have done more to promote the rights of women than you, Mr Zapatero, and the European Parliament owes you a debt of thanks for your endeavours in that area too. (Applause) (ES) Mr Zapatero, please continue with your excellent, modern and progressive policies.
We need others to follow your example and pursue your ambition for a prosperous and open Europe. (Applause from the centre and left) on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I would like to join my colleagues in welcoming the Prime Minister, but in a different way.
On behalf of my Group, I should like to thank the Prime Minister for the respect he has shown to this House by thanking the Union and, in particular, Parliament, as the representative voice of the people of the European Union.
On occasions we may get it wrong, but nobody can argue with our democratic accountability and with our democratic mandate to speak on behalf of the people.
Finally, some of us see a vision of Europe that brings bright stars, great opportunities and, most importantly, respect for the fundamental differences and dignities that exist within the European Union.
We should reach a point where no longer do we try to homogenise everything into one single shape or size but understand that, by giving dignity to that difference, we can actually create a better, more colourful and, certainly, more vibrant European Union for the future. (Applause) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Prime Minister, the Verts/ALE Group truly appreciates your firm pro-European position, your courage to hold a referendum on the Constitutional Treaty and the ability shown by your government in driving forward, calmly and without a religious war, legislation and measures on equality, individual rights and freedoms which are an example to many countries in Europe, although I do not see many women among your entourage today.
Now in Europe we are faced with several approaches: the two-tier system of Sarkozy, the Atlantic nationalism of Gordon Brown and the rather formal but very sincere pro-Europeanism of Romano Prodi.
To end, Prime Minister, I wish to thank you for reminding us of what I feel to be Europe's ultimate objectives, and if we still cannot agree as to our view of the present, let us at least agree as to the future prospects.
Either the political elite do not care what people want, as in the case of Mr Sarkozy and Mr Brown, or they feel that the people are too stupid to make any decision more important than what burger to buy at McDonalds.
Instead of a debate about the future of the Union, we should have a debate about the convalescence of democracy in the institutions of the European Union.
Representatives of all parties, cultures and political ideologies and representatives with great political weight have served the European institutions, in the Commission and in this Parliament where we have had three Presidents.
I will summarise the three that seem most important to me for the future of the European Union.
Moreover, Prime Minister, in the years to come, the Lisbon Treaty will provide the means to act in unison and refrain from implementing go-it-alone policies.
Welcome to the club.
The United Nations Security Council has demanded a right of self-determination and it is up to us in the European Union to give substance to this demand and, if possible, to realise it at the EU-Africa Summit. (SK) Prime Minister, you have paid your respects to Parliament, and I would like to pay my respects to you and, through you, to Spain.
Therefore, in 2009, the European Parliament will be the strongest Parliament since its first session in 1968.
The fact that Spain has legalised 700 000 immigrants was condemned in unequivocal terms by President Sarkozy last week here in the European Parliament.
My message is this: European speeches are important, and talking about Europe's fundamental values is important, but European action must take priority. (FR) Prime Minister, when we speak of the future of Europe, history is never very far away.
I am saying this, Prime Minister, because all this relates to Europe, in particular European credibility. (DE) Mr President, Prime Minister, Parliament will be deciding tomorrow whether the Charter of Fundamental Rights will be legally binding in future.
Across the 27 Member States, opinion polls show that a majority of citizens want a referendum on the Treaty.
I think that the message of Spain is clear to us, and we share this message: Europe will be either social or not at all; Europe will be either a global player or not at all; Europe will either be able to combine solidarity with subsidiarity or it will fail; Europe will either be able to offer a model of sustainable growth or it will vanish; Europe will either able to offer a solution in favour of social inclusiveness, gender equality and popular empowerment or it will fall apart; Europe will be able to associate multiculturalism with civic cohesion, free competition with generosity, efficiency with justice and flexibility with security, or it will become meaningless.
Instead, please set about devising a sensible energy policy, because oil now costs USD 100 and some people believe it will soon be even dearer.
The obvious questions are: why is this the case and who is profiting from the situation? (ES) Prime Minister, I must echo the words of welcome expressed by all my colleagues in my Group in an act of respect and parliamentary courtesy which I very much feel has not been extended by the PSE Group.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) Mr President, economic development and job creation are primary requirements in Europe today.
