&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 29 September 2005. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, today we are sharing in the pain of the families of the many victims of the natural disasters that took place last week: a terrible earthquake in south Asia and Hurricane Stan in Central America.
A great tragedy has struck Central America.
On behalf of the European Parliament, our President, Josep Borrell, immediately expressed our solidarity and our sympathies to the authorities of the countries affected by these tragedies.
We in the European Parliament wish to express our solidarity, our love and our support to the families and victims in Asia and Central America.
As you know, Mr Zimmerling was a Member of our Parliament during the last term in office and had been sitting once again on behalf of the Group of the European Peoples’ Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats since last July.
It is now my painful duty to ask you to observe a minute’s silence in memory of our esteemed colleague, who has passed away serving Europe and the ideals that we all share. &#160;&#160; The final version of the draft agenda for the present part-session as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 26 September pursuant to Rules 130 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have a motion in relation to the agenda.
On behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I move that the Commission should, in the course of this part-session, make a statement on its position in relation to the European social model, and we move that this statement be delivered jointly by Commissioner McCreevy and Mr Barroso, the Commission’s President.
By way of justification for this, let me say that, unless we have been misinformed, Commissioner McCreevy, in Sweden, gave the world the benefit of his views on the European Social Model, stating that the Scandinavian model of the European welfare state is not one that the Commission regards as compatible with the European internal market.
If that is what the Commission thinks, then they can reckon with determined resistance from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
We are insistent that this matter should be clarified, and so our group has decided that Commissioner McCreevy should clarify his position before this House.
I can tell Mr Schulz that it is for this reason that we are in favour of Commissioner McCreevy appearing, but I also ask that things should not be taken too far right now.
This is not a circus, and, if Commissioner McCreevy can make that sort of statement at a time when the European Social Model is in place, then it is incumbent to the President of the Commission to say, on its behalf, what is acceptable and what is not. &#160;&#160; Mr President, if this is a sign of things to come from the influence of the events in Berlin on this House, then they will do us no good whatsoever.
Commissioner McCreevy is entitled to his opinions.
What he said in Sweden is perfectly normal.
My group would not support calling Commissioner McCreevy to this House.
That is why I suggest that, on these issues, they both express their opinions in this Chamber. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I totally disagree with Mr Schulz with regard to what Commissioner McCreevy did or did not say, because if you read the 16 different press reports on the incident in Sweden, none of it was related to the Swedish social model.
In addition, more trade negotiations and more trade union negotiations took place at a national level and, over seven different years, there were four different programmes to guarantee the rights of workers and the right to participation of workers’ representatives.
This is an opportunist action on behalf of the Socialist Group to try to create a storm before the conference takes place in London.
I oppose the motion. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, we have a formal proposal from Mr Farage. &#160;&#160; Mr President, you seem to have forgotten that there is at least one group in this Parliament that is eurosceptic, that opposed the European Constitution and, for good measure, is rather bigger than the UEN Group.
Though not known for being shy in my criticism of this Commission, could I with your permission ask Mrs Sinnott to speak on behalf of our group to give our position? &#160;&#160; Mr President, two proposals have been tabled: one by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to summon the President of the Commission before this House and one by Mr Poettering from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) to give Commissioner McCreevy the right to repeat here what he said in Sweden.
Our group has just decided that, if the Social Democrats move that Commissioner McCreevy be invited to appear before the House, we will vote in favour of that.
Now, though, another motion is before the House, to the effect that the invitation be extended to both Commissioner McCreevy and the President of the Commission.
It is about the human tragedies in Ceuta, Melilla and on Lampedusa.
The first amendment relates to what Mrs Buitenweg has just explained and consists of adding, before the statements by the Council and the Commission on Iran, Council and Commission statements on the current problems in the field of immigration.
Mrs Buitenweg has just proposed an amendment to the title of this item on the agenda in order to specify certain places where the problem arises. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wonder whether there might not perhaps have been a misunderstanding.
Although attention is focused on the recent events at the Spanish-Moroccan border in Ceuta and Melilla, Malta and the Italian island of Lampedusa have also faced serious problems in recent months.
Dealing with these issues in a firm but fair way which meets our international commitments is a shared concern for the European Union.
Member States must shoulder this burden together.
The Commission sent a technical mission to Ceuta and Melilla earlier this week and is reporting on its findings to the Justice and Home Affairs Council today.
I am sure that Commissioner Figeľ will speak in more detail on these matters in a moment or two.
It is important that we realise that these events are the symptoms of a wider problem which requires a long-term solution.
To respond to regular migration requires us to work more effectively with countries outside the European Union.
The Commission and Member States have made substantial technical and financial support available to third countries to help improve their management of migration flows.
This is happening through European Union funded programmes and through bilateral projects.
Last month, Justice and Interior Ministers discussed migration issues with North Africa and Africa as a whole at their informal Council in Newcastle.
An important example is the European Union’s current work to enhance migration cooperation with Libya on border management and asylum protection.
The June Council described this as ‘urgent and essential to avoid humanitarian disasters and prevent further loss of life’.
Finally, the European Union must work together with countries of origin and transit to build capacity for refugee protection in these regions.
The Justice and Home Affairs Council and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees are today discussing the implementation of regional protection programmes.
These regional protection programmes are designed to create the conditions for people to resettle and integrate closer to their regions of origin, or in countries that they transit through.
This morning we had a meeting of the two Commissions – the European Union Commission and the African Union Commission – and this issue was part of the complex agenda and strategy discussed between these two important organisations.
The European Commission recalls that since the Tampere European Council in 1999, the European Union approach towards migration and asylum issues has been a balanced one.
The Hague action plan confirmed and strengthened this approach to migration management.
The set of measures adopted by the Commission on 1&#160;September in this field bodes well with this approach.
At the same time it adopted a proposal on return which will contribute to a more effective fight against illegal immigration, while preserving full respect for human rights.
This important course of action will also be accompanied by other initiatives dealing with the external dimension of our policies and the impact they may have on the development and protection capacities of third countries.
The recent tragic events mentioned by some of you and by Minister Alexander which occurred in the towns of Ceuta and Melilla remind us once again how important it is to find a comprehensive and forward-looking response to migration issues.
In the immediate aftermath of these events, Vice-President Frattini has decided to send a technical mission to Morocco and to Spain to get a first-hand assessment of the current migration situation and to explore ways in which the EU might assist the countries concerned in addressing this serious situation.
At tomorrow’s hearing in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, Vice-President Frattini intends to provide more details on the findings of this technical mission.
It is clear that it is urgent to do more to tackle the problem of illegal immigration.
Fences will not stop desperate people from risking their own lives in an attempt to enter the European Union.
The Commission fully understands Parliament’s concerns, as clearly indicated in the recent report on the reception conditions of irregular immigrants in Lampedusa.
Any European immigration policy must have as its objective the management of legal migration, the provision of humanitarian aid in accordance with the Geneva Convention on Refugees and, at the same time, the prevention of illegal migration.
Carting people off into the desert is inhumane and an admission of defeat in the face of all the things we have not yet dealt with.
Nor, though, does it help to let a few hundred or a few thousand illegals in Ceuta and Melilla into the EU in the belief that we have thereby solved the problem.
That will involve not only a consistent policy on return but also the conclusion by the EU of readmission agreements with countries of origin and of transit.
This is our task, and we must face up to it! &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, human dramas are played out at Europe’s borders; thousands of immigrants arrive ever more regularly, particularly in Malta, Lampedusa, Ceuta and Melilla, and we have received an alarming report about the situation in the Lampedusa camp following our visit, a report that confirms our worst fears.
Moreover, we have all been very alarmed over the last few days by the way in which would-be immigrants have been abandoned in the desert and by the violence to which they have been subjected.
We are talking about women and men, often accompanied by children, who have taken the painful decision to leave their countries.
Our asylum policy needs to match our values.
It is unacceptable that we should leave countries situated on the borders of Europe to manage these situations on their own.
We must understand, and quickly too, that it is necessary to show solidarity with developing countries and that it is necessary to promote peace and prosperity everywhere in the world.
We cannot fence ourselves off from it, closing our doors and our eyes to its social and economic problems.
The flood tide of migrants along our southern borders is upsetting our cosy calculation that inequality can be sustained without cost.
Sustainable economic, social and political development in Africa is a common concern, essential to Europe’s future.
Ten years on, Spain is negotiating a plan with Morocco to tackle immigration and promote cooperation with the countries of origin.
However, until Morocco’s border guards stop shooting unarmed refugees; until Morocco stops dumping them near its borders unable to fend for themselves, the European Union cannot, and should not, offer support for these proposals.
My group would like to extend heartfelt thanks to the Commission for the prompt despatch of a delegation to the Spanish enclaves of Melilla and Ceuta.
Whilst the Spanish Foreign Minister is behind the idea of bussing people back to their countries of origin, the big problem is that, very often, they never arrive at their destinations.
It is mainly young men who have learned a trade and who know that there is no future for them in their own countries.
That would benefit not only the channelling of illegal migration, but also the dynamism of our European economy.
It is a sort of reactionary utopia to think that one can curtail the free movement of men and women with the barbed wire separating two continents.
The Spanish Government bears joint responsibility both for the mass deportations carried out by the Moroccan Government and for the deaths in the desert of dozens of people.
On that point, the accusations made by many non-governmental organisations operating in Ceuta and Melilla are serious, and on behalf of my group I call for a committee of enquiry to be set up immediately to find out the truth and who was responsible for what happened in Ceuta and Melilla, as well as to investigate the way in which immigrants are received in Europe.
The immigrants who have climbed only the first barrier at Melilla, without managing to get over the second, have been expelled from European territory without any kind of recognition, without any attempt to find out their origin and without any check as to whether they might have been entitled to refugee status.
The right to be received should be an inalienable right.
We believe that it is not possible to build Europe with barriers and barbed wire: what we need to do, instead, is to try to open the borders to ensure that Europe has a future and a hope of success. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a persistent pretence of not seeing or understanding that the policy of closing the borders and preventing the invasion of illegal immigrants is the only policy that can remove the danger posed by traffickers in human beings.
All the left does is talk about human rights, without proposing the steps that need to be adopted to combat those that traffic in illegal immigrants, uprooting millions of people from their own countries.
That is simply ridiculous and, in view of the fact that I am one of the group of MEPs that went to Lampedusa, I can confirm that I personally heard someone say: ‘It is too clean, there is something not right here’, because the reception centres in other parts of Europe are all much dirtier and more disorganised.
It is shameful that certain newspapers are trying to besmirch the work of Italian volunteers and the , who should be held up as a model for the whole of Europe for the way in which they conduct themselves on Lampedusa and on the sea aiding illegal immigrants.
That is what the gentlemen of the left ought to ascertain, instead of pretending to be unaware of what the Zapatero government is doing, when in fact it is firing on illegal immigrants. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since I now know him well, I am willing to understand Mr&#160;Catania’s exaggerations, emphases and fantasies – which are all pessimistic, naturally.
I will ask Mr Watson, instead, to verify his information before talking about the conduct of the Italian Government, so that he can avoid talking rubbish in this Chamber.
In any case, Mr President, in the light of recent events in Ceuta and Melilla, I hope that all the Member States are finally becoming fully aware of the fact that illegal immigration is a European problem and that rigorous and concerted action on the immigration issue cannot be put off any longer, even for a second.
I note with pleasure that the Commission, with a view to reinforcing the European area of freedom, security and justice, intends to allocate, for the 2007-2013 period, significant resources for the management of migratory flows, laying down specific measures to combat immigration and promote integration.
I hope that, with the sums allocated for the strengthening of the external borders and for the creation of a European fund for refugees and another for those who are repatriated, an assessment will also be made of the possibility of upgrading reception centres along the model of the Lampedusa centre, which has been unfairly attacked by the left.
Italy, which is already spending exorbitant amounts on repatriating illegal immigrants, can no longer bear the burdens and costs of these waves of immigration by itself.
EU funding is needed to upgrade and set up new centres and to foster cooperation with the countries of origin, which is the most effective way to avoid cases such as Lampedusa, which is too often forced to tackle such severe overcrowding that it is almost impossible to manage.
We should appreciate the fact, however, and for this I would like to thank the President, that Parliament has been willing to dedicate this time – which was not programmed – to such an important and sensitive topic. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is, of course, true that Spain and the other European countries are largely responsible for the fact that we are still nowhere in the fight against illegal immigration.
We are facing an horrendous crisis that neither this Parliament nor the European Union can ignore.
Confusion, premeditation, lack of information and transparency, double attitudes and double language: first they are allowed to come and allowed to mount an assault on the border, then they shoot at them, displace them and abandon them to their fate in the desert; we do not know where they go and we do not know where they are taken.
What we are witnessing at the moment is a situation that demonstrates that we are facing a drama of biblical proportions, because, as Mrs Klamt has said ― and I believe she is right ― there are more than four million displaced people in Africa.
What we are proposing in a very concrete and direct form has also been proposed by the British Presidency: to take a step forward with regard to Africa.
What we cannot do is pass our problems on to our neighbour.
I would ask for your support and would like to invoke this Parliament’s Rules of Procedure so that I can respond. &#160;&#160; You may speak on this matter at the end of the debate. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank the representatives of the Council and, above all, of the Commission, and we look forward to tomorrow’s work with Mr&#160;Fratini.
This could be held in association with, or even under the joint authority of, the UN and the European Union.
The conference should develop an emergency Marshall-style plan at UN and EU levels and in relation to the following two areas.
Then, and as our main task, we need urgently to mobilise the international financial institutions to create economic activity in the countries of the South and, in particular, to offer stability there to those young people who wish to work in their own countries and to remain there.
Basic efforts are required to promote policies on education and economic stabilisation in order to prevent the populations concerned from migrating.
In Tijuana or in Brindisi, in Lampedusa or Ceuta, women and men in this world of ours are now on the move.
Naturally, our Spanish friends or my Moroccan friends cannot by themselves resolve this problem which, at present, has a global and not only European dimension.
I endorse the statements made by the Council and expressed in other ways by the Commission.
I also agree with the position expressed by Mrs Buitenweg and, in part – for once – also that of Mr&#160;Catania, although I do not agree with his statements regarding deportation by Italy or journalistic action, which can certainly do nothing to aid such an important cause.
Currently there is no EU policy on immigration and there are countries which are not capable of tackling the problem by themselves.
Other countries, however – such as Malta, which has a population of barely 400&#160;000 – find themselves under enormous pressure and are not capable of dealing with the problem.
The Council must take responsibility for it and the Commission should formulate a specific proposal.
We must set up a common immigration policy – Mr President, I am just finishing – so that, in addition to human tragedies, in addition to the needy, hungry people who need work, other aspects are also borne in mind, such as those who operate boats to carry illegal immigrants, traffickers in human beings and above all the terrorists who may benefit from these situations to infiltrate Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in all honesty we expected more from the Council’s statement.
We expected greater clarity, in particular, since immigration requires joint, coordinated measures for European policy, focused not on the need and the means to protect ourselves from immigrants, but above all on the capability to ensure respect for the human rights of immigrants, their human dignity and agreement among the Member States.
Finally, is the Council aware that the current cooperation agreements with Libya provide not only for the monitoring of the borders but also for non-EU citizens who have been turned away and deported to be interned in refugee camps in the Libyan desert that are not further identified?
We agree with the proposals for the future and the initiatives taken over recent months by Vice-President Frattini on the issue of illegal immigration, asylum policy and combating illegal immigration trafficking.
As an MEP I intend to bring pressure to bear on the Council, because the image of the torrent of migrants assaulting the enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla symbolises our future demographic and political relationship.
As an MEP, I will also denounce the manipulation of the truth which took place during the visit by the delegation from the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs to the Lampedusa centre and the shameful conduct revealed by the journalists’ investigative reports.
My friends at the Commission, you will have Parliament’s support if you proceed more swiftly.
Time is pressing and politicians have the duty to take steps in relation to people’s needs and the urgency of their need. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my condolences with regard to the illegal immigrants who have died, as well as my solidarity with the local authorities and people of those countries, cities and regions on the borders of Europe who are affected by immigration on a day-to-day basis.
To stop the invasion we need to remove the illusion that it is possible to enter Europe illegally and either to remain illegally or even to have one’s situation regularised.
I thank Mr Zapatero and his socialist government for having demonstrated to other fellow Members and other governments that it is an obligation of those in power to ensure the legality and welfare of those under their administration.
I thank you, my fellow Members, if you are finally aware that it is necessary to defend one’s own country against illegitimate invasion.
What we are dealing with is a continent in its death-throes, for we can see how Aids is cutting a swathe through some of its countries, how climate change has meant that people no longer have any means of feeding themselves, and that we have not always given the right sort of aid, or in sufficient quantities.
There is also the issue of trading conditions, which are not always fair.
If people there are to be given hope, we need to adopt an approach that is different – not only in going deeper but also in having a broader scope.
It is every bit as important to recognise that these countries are ruled over by elites and dictatorships that threaten their own people with armed force, oppressing them and making any kind of development impossible.
All these things fit together if we want to deal with these things successfully, and also gain the approval of our own people.
I wish to record here my appreciation for the initiative taken by Commissioner Frattini.
This is the kind of EU solidarity that EU citizens, Member States and immigrants would really relate to and appreciate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, immigration is, together with the fight against terrorism, one of the major emergencies of the new millennium.
The EU must not, therefore, remain deaf to this appeal, but ought to increase the number of initiatives to tackle the immigration emergency.
Although these are important, we have to do much more.
Agreements with countries of origin are needed, and we need to go further along the path that was begun in Barcelona and increase investment and initiatives for development.
This is why we are increasingly convinced that immigration ought to be one of the European Union’s responsibilities in the future.
The words of Commissioner Figel and the initiatives taken by Mr Frattini give us cause for hope.
With regard to the events of recent days it is impossible for us not to forcefully denounce what has happened in Ceuta and Melilla.
The Zapatero government was not capable of dealing with the situation, and was not able to tackle an emergency while respecting the human rights of the immigrants who were pressing at the borders.
We do not want to see any repetitions of the scenes that have been shown on television in recent days: so many innocent victims, killed through a total inability to tackle the emergency and to know how to combine security and respect for human lives.
Finally, any comparison – and this is my final point – between what happened in Ceuta and Melilla and what happened on Lampedusa is totally unacceptable.
The Italian Government, the forces of law and order and the NGOs did not cause anyone to be killed or deported into the desert, but they continue every day to save the lives of dozens and dozens of immigrants who are victims of traders without scruples and pedlars of dreams that turn into tragedies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should also like to express my views today about the huge influx of illegal immigrants in Europe, a situation that is not only affecting my country Malta, but also Spain, Italy, and other European countries; a situation that has stretched Malta’s resources to their limits; a situation that I fear has not been given its due importance by the European Union.
The Maltese authorities have been dealing with this problem for years, but the last couple of years have seen an increase that has made it very difficult to control.
Logistically it has become very hard – nearly impossible – to accommodate these illegal immigrants and at the same time ensure their privacy and dignity as human beings.
Unfortunately the situation is a reality on our island and I urge the Commission to act as soon as possible to find a lasting solution.
The problem we are facing is critical, but nevertheless I am sure that the Maltese authorities will continue to do their utmost to aid and protect these unfortunate people who in the vast majority of cases flee their countries for political, social and economic reasons.
Let me begin by agreeing with Commissioner Figel’ that migration requires, as he described it, a balanced approach to protect the rights of those in need of protection and to combat illegal immigration.
Mrs Klamt and Mrs Roure rightly expressed concerns about reports of migrants left in the deserts.
In a powerful contribution Mr Watson drew attention to the proximity and importance of Africa to the interests of the European Union.
This matter was also brought up in the contributions by Mr Barón Crespo, Mr Cavada and Mr Brok.
The Council does not share his view.
The migration dialogue with Libya underlines the European Union’s expectations of Libya in areas such as human rights and we believe it is important to influence Libyan behaviour and commitment to human rights by comprehensive engagement.
They are also problems for Europe’s neighbours like Libya and Morocco, and for countries in sub-Saharan Africa where the pressures of illegal migration are perhaps greatest.
The long-term solution lies in working in partnership.
In the past the European Union’s engagement with countries outside the European Union to combat illegal immigration has frankly not been effective enough.
The European Union’s policy on migration and asylum needs to be carefully balanced and carefully considered.
It should not confuse the objective of stronger border controls that stop illegal immigration with the objective of protecting refugees, which is a fundamental value of our European Union.
This is the only way to avoid further human tragedies in the Mediterranean and establish managed migration that works in the interests of both the European Union and our neighbours. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, I have only a few words to add as I think this topic is not only to be covered today but also tomorrow and some days thereafter.
It is a question which touches on many other related issues: not only development, but also external relations and the future of Europe.
Just to remind you that many years ago – 60 years ago or more – people from Europe were fleeing to other continents.
I believe that respect for human rights, the culture of human rights and the mainstreaming of human rights in all other policies with our partners, with countries of origin or of transit, should become a permanent part of our relations or criteria.
The Commission promotes such an attitude and will promote it further together with the United Nations.
It is an important time for reflection on the future of this region.
This House will discuss later this evening the Union’s strategy on Africa.
Today, the EU donates 60% of the total amount of aid to Africa.
This is by far the highest volume in comparison with other countries and organisations in the world.
I would like to conclude by assuring you, Mr President, that we will discuss the issue at the hearing tomorrow in the European Parliament.
We are increasingly interdependent and, as Mrs Buitenweg said, the European project is really about civilisation: civilisation not only for us, but for the world in general. &#160;&#160; Mr Díaz de Mera García Consuegra, you have the floor on the basis of Rule 145. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I only wish to respond to Mr Barón by saying the following: before this afternoon, I had respect for Mr Barón, a lot of respect; having heard him, and having seen the great effort he has made to destroy that respect, he has succeeded: I no longer have any respect for him.
Finally, I am proud to have dedicated part of my life to the security of all Spaniards.
Combined with Iran’s immense natural resources – particularly oil and minerals – this should make for a vibrant economy and society if the new government can create a culture of opportunity based upon the rule of law.
When Iran’s concealment of crucial elements of its nuclear programme came to light in 2002 and 2003, the normal procedure should have been for the International Atomic Energy Agency’s Board of Governors to report Iran to the United Nations Security Council.
At the heart of this initiative was a proposal that Iran should restore confidence by suspending all uranium enrichment related and reprocessing activities while we discussed mutually acceptable, long-term arrangements.
Full suspension of all nuclear fuel cycle activities was also the basis of the agreement made in Paris last November between Iran and the European side, which has provided the framework for our discussion of long-term arrangements.
The European Union has made clear that we are willing to work with Iran and, as part of a long-term agreement, to open the door to closer economic, political and social cooperation.
I will now turn to human rights, an area in which the United Kingdom Presidency has had cause to be active in the last three months, because of serious and continuing violations.
I hope Iran’s new Government will devote renewed attention to this area.
In January, the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child urged Iran to end this practice.
European Union Member States remain ready to co-sponsor United Nations General Assembly resolutions on the human rights situation in Iran, as appropriate.
The EU-Iran human rights dialogue enables the European Union to work to improve the human rights situation in Iran.
Iran’s attitude to human rights is damaging its reputation in the international community and I am sure that honourable Members will agree with me when I say that the Iranian Government owes it to its people to make significant progress in this area.
I think we all realise that this is a particularly crucial time for Iran and its new Government.
I know that honourable Members will also continue to maintain a keen interest in human rights, the nuclear dossier and other elements of Iran’s development in the important months and years ahead. &#160;&#160; .
The international community must be united if we are to find a satisfactory solution.
This means working through the appropriate channels: first, the International Atomic Energy Agency and, if and when necessary, the United Nations Security Council.
The development of the European Union’s relations with Iran is conditioned in large part by progress on that issue and by the approach of the international community.
I hope that in the months ahead you will be in a position to develop contacts with your interlocutors from the Iranian Majlis, as well as with the widest possible spectrum of Iranian society.
It would be, for instance, very important to support the further development of academic, cultural and artistic exchanges between Europe and Iran, two ancient beacons of civilisations which have a lot to offer to each other.
On the official level, I first wish to draw your attention to two tracks: the comprehensive dialogue and the EU-Iran dialogue on human rights.
It is a forum designed to allow both sides to discuss a broad range of issues in the economic, political and security fields in a frank and open manner.
Since the outset, the emphasis has been placed on our four long-standing issues of concern: weapons of mass destruction, terrorism, the Middle East peace process and human rights.
The next session should be held in Tehran.
As for the more specific bilateral dialogue on human rights which we set up in 2002, it provides a structured forum which allows formal discussion on individual cases, as well as on a comprehensive range of human rights issues of concern, on the basis of clear benchmarks.
It remains one of the means through which the EU can make a sustained contribution to fostering systemic change and improving the human rights situation on the ground.
However, the latest session of the human rights dialogue took place more than a year ago.
In the margins of the United Nations General Assembly, my colleague Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner told Mr&#160;Manouchehr Mottaki, the Iranian Foreign Minister, that it would be important for Iran to reconfirm its commitment to the EU-Iran human rights dialogue by agreeing on a date for an early meeting.
Regarding the current human rights situation in Iran, there is a growing cause for concern, as exemplified by the continued imprisonment of Mr Akbar Ganji – as Mr&#160;Alexander mentioned – and his supporter and lawyer, Mr Abdolfattah Soltani.
The European Commission remains mobilised on each of these issues.
We are fully in line with the European Parliament in saying that, without a systemic improvement of the human rights situation in Iran, our relations with Iran cannot develop properly.
Indeed, our relationship with the Islamic Republic of Iran is, at present, well below potential: Iran is one of the few countries with which the EU has no contractual relation.
A framework agreement with the EU could facilitate the reintegration of Iran into the international community and contribute to the creation of an environment conducive to economic growth and job creation.
These two tracks are indivisible and mutually reinforcing.
Indeed, up and until the most recent crisis over the nuclear issue, our negotiators had made good progress.
This leads me to say a few words on where we stand with regard to the nuclear issue, including its implications on the TCA since the adoption of the resolution of the International Atomic Energy Agency of 24&#160;September.
A united EU can also form the bedrock upon which the international community can send a clear message to Iran that, whilst as per Article IV of the Non Proliferation Treaty – NPT – Iran has the inalienable right to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes – and this without discrimination – we need objective guarantees on the exclusively peaceful nature of Iran’s nuclear programme.
These principles underpin the framework set up last November in Paris by the European countries.
The comprehensive package presented to Iran last August represents a solid pillar on which Iran and the international community can find a common ground for their legitimate concerns.
What we expect of the Commission is that it should make funds available from the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights to enable us to step up cooperation with Iranian civil society, and I am obliged to Commissioner Figel’ for mentioning a number of areas in which we can do that.
In the absence of any substantial improvement in the human rights situation, it will be impossible to bring negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement to a conclusion.
While we welcome every effort at cooperation with the IAEA in order to make effective monitoring possible, we do – quite independently of that – urge Iran, as a matter of priority, to completely suspend its own uranium enrichment programme, as agreed in Paris last November.
We call on the Iranians to resume dialogue with the EU before the Board of Governors of the IAEA next meet, in November.
Russia, to take one example, might well offer to do likewise – and there will then be the possibility of sending the spent fuel rods back – but Iran should take practical steps to address the mistrust in which it is held, not least in nuclear matters.
If it does that, it cannot fail; if it does not, it will have the Security Council to deal with, where its chances of successes will be slimmer. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexander, Mr Figel’, the decision by the Iranian authorities to suspend negotiations with the three European countries acting as negotiators is worrying.
I would like, however, to state right away and without ambiguity that we rule out any kind of military solution to this crisis.
We are, actually, concerned by this difference in the attitude of the United States, partly because many of Iran’s concerns about its own security spring directly from the attitude of the US, its policy in the region and the pressure that is being exerted, partly in military terms, in the military bases located in areas bordering Iran.
Iran, for its part, must suspend any activity designed to obtain nuclear material for military purposes; it must do so because it has signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty, thus also undertaking to apply its Additional Protocol.
We also welcome the European Council’s resolution of 3 October.
Indeed, as is well known and as the Iranian authorities are well aware and as Mr Alexander also pointed out, this issue falls within the competence of the United Nations Security Council.
The decision not to launch a procedure which could lead to an escalation of the situation is thus a choice which makes the path of negotiation even more persuasive, offering Iran a chance which should not be missed.
In the interests of greater clarity I should state that Iran, like any country in the world, has the right to equip itself with nuclear capacity for non-military purposes, and that is clear both in the resolution from the International Agency for Atomic Energy and in our resolution.
I would like to conclude with an appeal to the Council on the issue of human rights, an issue that everyone has alluded to.
In our resolution we referred to the cases mentioned by you, Mr Alexander.
I would like to encourage the Commission and the Council to continue the policy of dialogue, and never to separate human rights issues from trade agreements with Iran. &#160;&#160; &#160;Madam&#160;President, the drive to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons has been partially successful.
Several countries such as Argentina and the Republic of South Africa have decided not to pursue programmes of this nature.
Unfortunately, however, this process has not received the support it needed to ensure its full success.
It is also important to remember to whom we are indebted for information on the secret military nuclear programmes in Iran.
The Iranian opposition brought this activity to the attention of world public opinion, and their significant contribution to this case should be duly recognised.
It is the details that will determine whether we in this House meet our responsibility of finding a de-escalation strategy, which I would describe as being about opening up new negotiating options in furtherance of our policy objective of preventing further proliferation of weapons in the Middle East and Iran’s eventual possession of an atom bomb.
Our fear is that failure to present a united front to the Security Council will result in escalation, and that the IAEA will no longer be able to do its work in Iran without hindrance, something that we know will end up making military escalation more likely.
It is not usual for us to talk constantly about human rights, but the human rights dialogue is one of the things that have been put on ice since President Ahmadinejad was elected, and the human rights situation is getting worse.
Teheran has sent official representatives to listen to this debate, and I appeal to them to clarify for our information whether or not Akbar Ganji is still alive, to ensure that he is released at once without conditions, along with his lawyer, who was a guest of this House as recently as July and discussed these issues with us.
That is what our resolution is driving at, and I mean this very seriously.
In this case, this risk is real, because the regime that is in power in Iran owes its support to a militant minority that has driven out, and excluded, other political powers from that country.
The political opposition has been banished to Europe and elsewhere.
A democratic Europe must take this opposition seriously.
Support for that opposition can, in time, change the situation.
This long arm of those in power of the Islamic Republic is surely one with which the British Presidency is far from unfamiliar today.
I would like to ask the Council and Commission how we can prevent this long arm of the mullahs from resorting to nuclear weapons.
That option must also sound familiar to the Council and the Commission.
The Members’ opinions now also display both a demand for more constructive action in relation to Iran and a wish not to strain relations with that country.
This confirms that, in truth, the choice of resources available for influencing Iran is extremely limited.
Nor is the Atomic Energy Agency wrong in stating in its resolution of 24&#160;September that Iran’s activities were giving rise to a lack of confidence and that further action would fall within the competence of the UN Security Council.
Given this, we have to understand that political dialogue as a preventive tool to deal with Iran’s defiant and provocative actions is approaching its critical limit.
This, however, creates the sense that both in today’s resolution and in the Council’s announcement of 3 October the determination to take this issue forward to the UN Security Council is lacking.
Perhaps this is because the Council and we at the European Parliament are actually not convinced about the UN Security Council’s will to take decisions in connection with Iran’s nuclear programme.
I do not think that the situation has changed a lot since then, even though I have seen Iranians coming through Shaff al-Arab to Basra; even though we have seen British soldiers dying in southern Iraq; even though we know about Iranian support to Hizbollah; even though we know about human rights violations.
We strongly support here today the Council decisions and the EU Troika.
We have to blame a damaging, totalitarian, oppressive regime which is not able to prove that it is going to use its nuclear energy for civilian purposes only.
We also need to recognise Tehran’s legitimate concerns for its security and identify Iran’s essential role as a regional power.
We need to be equally clear and determined, however, in refusing any type of bargaining over the serious contraventions of human rights which still exist, especially in the field of freedom of expression and of women’s and children’s rights, where we are still very far from being secure in the rule of law.
Only a multilateral, determined and transparent effort will make it possible to create the conditions in which Iran will no longer be seen just as a danger but, on the contrary, as an essential player that has a vital role in stabilising the world’s most strategic region. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it is my view that the Islamic Republic of Iran has much to offer the region and the wider world.
The inevitable prerequisite is and must be the essential requirement to resolve the nuclear issue.
The European Union’s single foreign policy demands no less. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to emphasise that I am speaking on my own behalf.
In Iran the human rights situation has deteriorated after the new President was ‘elected’.
In particular, the situation of women and young people has worsened considerably.
The number of public executions has increased.
The regime has been condemned in the UN for violations of human rights more times than any other country in the world: 51&#160;times.
Mr Figeľ had nothing much to say except to offer more of the process of proffered dialogue and cooperation.
Along with the ever-increasing flow of reports of executions of juveniles under the age of 18 and of others being sentenced to death, there is also the fact that Akbar Gandji, having been arrested over five years ago, is still in jail and is in a critical condition.
It would also appear that Iran is working on the assumption that the European Union will, in future, still not have the capacity for joint action – something that was lamentably apparent to us from our experience with Iraq.
Members across this House have called for a stronger, more decisive European foreign policy.
Our negotiations with Iran have represented just such an example of what we can do when we work together.
That is why it is right that today’s resolution calls for renewed negotiations, seeks to engage third countries internationally in support of our efforts and not as an alternative to them, and should be within the framework of the Paris agreement of last November.
Whilst Mr ElBaradei should be warmly congratulated for his Nobel Peace Prize, let us not forget today the former Nobel Prize winner, Iranian human rights lawyer Shirin Ebadi, who is currently in receipt of personal threats against her because of her work.
The political and human rights issues are intertwined and again I welcome the assurances given this afternoon by the President-in-Office in this respect.
Whilst I cannot attest to these claims with certainty, when eight soldiers from my own country, the UK, have been killed in Iraq in the last five months it is right that Europe does its utmost to dissuade Iran from the proliferation of civil as well as nuclear weapons. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the question is, what do we want: do we want a new Iraq in Iran?
Let us at long last follow a clearly European policy. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Iran remains a major headache for the EU and for our ally, the United States.
It is clear to any Iran watcher that its hard-line fundamentalist government, in spite of its public denials, is determined to acquire a nuclear bomb and that enriching uranium to military grade is central to its security strategy.
Paragraph 12 of the resolution, therefore, is particularly appeasing in this respect and unacceptable.
I also agree that Iran has an appalling human rights record, including executing minors for sexual misdemeanours, and even pregnant women.
I believe it is the only country in the world which executes pregnant women.
Lastly, I condemn Iran’s role through its terrorist proxy Hizbollah– which I call again on the Council to ban – in supporting the insurgency in Iraq and in supplying sophisticated bombs which are killing British and American soldiers and therefore preventing peace, the establishment of democracy and the reconstruction of that blighted country. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, the European Parliament has repeatedly raised the issue of human rights violations in Iran.
The political system in Iran does not comply with internationally agreed standards concerning fundamental human rights and political freedom.
We appeal in the first instance to the Iranian Parliament to act in defence of freedom of the media and freedom of expression by the Iranian people both in traditional publications and on the Internet.
We support the IAEA in calling for the matter of Iran’s nuclear programme to be referred to the UN&#160;Security Council.
Tehran must publish all the documents relating to its nuclear programme.
The European Union cannot condone a situation in which an undemocratic country continues to pursue a nuclear programme that could result in the manufacture of an atomic bomb. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the statements by the Council and the Commission, as well Parliament’s resolution, reflect another failure of the Union’s policies.
The joint resolution carefully presents a line of justifications for Iran’s nuclear programme.
If the European Parliament marginalises this great danger to international peace and to the future of democracies, this Parliament will marginalise itself.
Paradoxically, the only effective opposition to the rulers of the terrorist state was put on the terrorist list and persecuted in Europe.
Possible opposition to it should be explained as a service for Russia, in order to prevent it from an unpleasant veto in the Security Council.
I do not understand why the European Union should lose face in order to save Russia’s.
In the event of such a veto, we would realise how strategically reliable our alleged strategic partner really is.
If Amendment 1 is rejected, the whole resolution has no sense but prevailing surrender. &#160;&#160; Madam President, looking back over the speeches made in the past hour, and particularly the last one, I have to say that I have come to understand why some other Members of this House are concerned that Iran might be pushed into a corner and no longer be prepared to engage in dialogue or negotiation.
It is true to say that there is no built-in guarantee of success, but there is no alternative to it.
I shall try to respond to a number of the points that have been made in the course of this timely debate.
I start by echoing the contribution made by Mr Howitt and others in underlining how, over the last few months, we have genuinely shown what Europe can do by working together.
I pay tribute to the other colleagues in the E3 process who have shown the strength of Europe’s diplomatic voice in challenging circumstances.
A number of honourable Members raised the issue of human rights.
There is no reason why an Islamic political system such as Iran should deny fundamental democratic rights such as freedom of choice and freedom of expression.
Ms Beer and others echoed the appeal that I made earlier to Tehran to free Mr Ganji and to reinforce the significance of the wider human rights agenda within Iran.
I reaffirm that call and let me echo the comments made by Commissioner Figel’, Mr Howitt and others on Mr Soltani.
It is important to recognise that the United Nations Security Council has a potentially significant role to play.
Let there be little doubt in this House, however, that the prospect of a report to the United Nations Security Council remains real.
The responsibility in terms of the immediate steps that now need to be taken lies directly with the Iranian authorities.
The issue of military intervention has again been raised by a number of different honourable colleagues in the course of the debate – Mr Napoletano, Ms Beer, Mr&#160;Howitt and others – who expressed their concern at the possibility of military action being taken against Iran.
Those concerns unequivocally include both the issue of nuclear proliferation and the related issue of human rights.
In conclusion, Iran is at a particularly crucial juncture.
I believe that the message from this Chamber as regards the priorities of the European Union will be clearer now than at the beginning of this debate. &#160;&#160; .
First, I would like to thank the distinguished MEPs for their well-considered views, the great majority of which express not only support for a common approach to the nuclear question and observation of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, but which also touch very seriously upon the issues of human rights and support for dialogue with the emerging civil society in Iran.
Secondly, I would like to express my appreciation for the extensive draft resolution, which bears witness to the great amount of work done by the political groups, and which, in fact, constitutes an expression of support for the balanced, considered and responsible strategy towards Iran that we are pursuing.
Thirdly, I would like to express a wish for continuing constructive and effective unity among EU Member States, European institutions and the international community in this agenda, which is sure to bring positive results sooner or later. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the one-minute interventions on important political issues. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following on from the preceding discussions regarding the situation in Iran, allow me to share with you one achievement of the country that I represent in the European Parliament.
I am very proud that this week the UN General Assembly has elected my country, Slovakia, as a non-permanent member of the Security Council.
At a time when the UN will be addressing the question of the future status of Kosovo and developments in Ukraine, Belarus or Moldova, the EU will have an opportunity to contribute to the security of the entire continent of Europe.
In addition to that, through the successful resolution of conflicts in the Middle East or Africa, the European Union can establish its position as a key player on the global political scene and show the world its determination and readiness for action. &#160;&#160; Mr President, speaking on behalf of the South Asian Delegation, of which I am Chair, I would like to express my heartfelt and deepest condolences to all the friends and families who have lost loved ones in the earthquake in Pakistan and India.
With thousands dead and many more homeless and vulnerable, the spread of disease, extreme weather conditions and even criminal opportunities pose a threat to the people of the area.
Therefore I am calling on the Commission and the Council to ensure that their response is commensurate with the scale of this tragedy.
Secondly, they need to provide technical expertise and equipment and to undertake detailed needs assessment, so that no more people suffer as a result of negligence on the part of the international community.
Thirdly, we need to start thinking about the future and about how we respond to these disasters.
I support the call by the Presidency for a standing international fund to respond to disasters like the tsunami, Hurricane Katrina and the earthquake, as quickly and as effectively as possible. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mrs Gill, I am sure we all share those sentiments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, avian flu is once again knocking on Europe’s door.
The cases of highly suspect mass poultry deaths reported in Romania and Turkey are very worrying.
Extensive plans on how to cope with this threat are being drawn up by all responsible European governments and by the Commission.
Firstly, EU officials reported that the results of important tests were delayed and are still awaited because Turkey was late in sending samples to the appropriate laboratory.
This unfortunate situation has been further aggravated by the fact that the change in the rate of exchange for the euro resulted in a drop in the value of this year’s direct payments in relation to last year’s.
In addition, the Commissioner for Trade is planning to cut subsidies for agricultural trade by approximately 60% in the future.
All these facts testify to the Union’s wholesale disregard of the interests of the new Member States and to its failure to support development in the east of the Community.
I appeal to the Commission to grant full payments to these areas as of 2007, in order to prevent a tragedy in the agricultural world and the emergence of social tensions in the new Member States. &#160;&#160; Special pleading for farmers has no sympathy from me. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our voters deserve to know whether their elected governments stand up for them at Council of Ministers meetings.
It was in this very room that Tony Blair said that he wanted to give a lead in Europe and to re-engage the peoples of Europe.
Here is something that the British Presidency could do easily and painlessly: end the secrecy; chalk up a success for the British Presidency.
Presidential elections are scheduled to take place in Kazakhstan on 4 December of this year.
Moreover, this country aspires to take on the Chairmanship of the OSCE in 2009.
This would constitute a ‘litmus test’ for assessment of the results of these Presidential elections and for determination of whether to support Kazakhstan in its drive to take on the Chairmanship of the OSCE.
A terrible tragedy requires dramatic and speedy action and a generosity of financing and support to meet the aims and match the funding that we gave to the victims of the tsunami crisis as well.
DM Digital Television, a TV company in my region, has been contacted by frantic relatives from across Europe seeking urgent help for orphans.
I would ask the Commission and the EU to act on this request as urgently as possible to assist those children and those orphans in need. &#160;&#160; Mr President, following on from the recent earthquake, I also wish to send my condolences.
However, I also understand that many individuals and organisations from the Indian side are being told that, because of the dispute that has been going on for over 50&#160;years between India and Pakistan over Kashmir, they are not allowed to cross the border to give help to the victims.
After all, public health was meant to be one of the main priorities for the European Union.
Europe is once again splitting into two parts.
This is a tiny little symbolic step, but believe me, it is a very important one for us, the new Member States. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, negotiations on FYROM start in a month.
So we have to take certain initiatives after the failure of the American negotiator, Mr Nimitz.
Europe must turn its attention to the issues on its own doorstep. &#160;&#160; Mr President, please allow me, as chairman of the EU-Croatia Joint Parliamentary Committee, to express my delight and gratitude regarding last week’s Council decision giving the go-ahead for Croatia to begin accession negotiations too.
Although the negotiations with Turkey will open at the same time, I believe it is important not to tie the two countries together, be it during the screening process or chapter negotiations.
In the case of Croatia, it will really be a process of reunification rather than enlargement, as this nation of four-and-a-half million souls has always been part of Europe; it shares our common history and culture.
Mr President, how much longer will the governments of any political hue in Europe carrying on treating pensioners like pieces of paper or dead branches and not as people who breathe, live, have worked and therefore have earned everyone’s respect? &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week the European Court of Justice made a ruling that British prisoners should have the right to vote in elections.
This followed an appeal by a British prisoner that his human rights were being violated by the English law that prevents prisoners from voting.
Its purpose is to ensure that the political will of the European Union is enforced in Member States.
This particular piece of idiocy is a direct consequence of the Labour Government’s decision in 1998 to incorporate the European Convention on Human Rights into English law.
If enforced, this verdict means that Ian Huntley, the Soham murderer; Ian Brady, the moors murderer: Robert Black, the child killer; and every paedophile and criminal in British prisons will have a say in what kind of government we elect.
In 1998, MEP Mikolášik and I initiated a resolution of the Slovak Parliament dealing with the accession of Slovakia to the ‘Oviedo Protocol’ on the prohibition of cloning.
I have also been committed to the cause of making it a criminal offence in Slovakia to perform controversial research on embryos and embryonic stem cells.
We are speaking about the use of funds for specific programmes under the 7th Framework Programme for research and development.
I would like to thank President Barroso for his reply, which promises that the European Commission will pay close attention to this issue and that our concerns will be dealt with.
I would also like to assure the President of the Commission that the group of signatories to the letter will continue to follow developments in this area closely and to maintain their standpoint. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to raise the issue of a problem that an organisation called Frontline is experiencing.
Frontline is an international foundation for the protection of human rights defenders, an organisation that seeks to help those who are working in various parts of the world defending human rights, and who themselves are at risk.
I would ask the Presidency of Parliament to intervene on behalf of these people.
I will send the details of these cases individually to the Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, VAT reductions on labour-intensive activities were used by countries to make buildings more affordable for people and families.
If we are, we need to extend the VAT reductions of labour-intensive activities, particularly in the building industry. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs Sinnott and I have tabled two written declarations that focus Members’ attention on the fact that the lower rates of value added tax will at the end of December 2005 unless the Council of Ministers take the right and proper decision to extend them.
At present, the construction industry – I chair the construction forum in the European Parliament – has no idea whether these lower rates of value added tax will continue in a few weeks’ time.
While I know that the President of Parliament, Mr&#160;Borrell, will attend the Ibero-American Summit in Salamanca and that the dictator Fidel Castro has not been excluded from appearing in that city in the flesh, I would like to ask Mr Borrell to communicate the European Union and our Parliament’s final position to the Cuban delegates: the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners in Cuba. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a party of mayors was here in Brussels last week, visiting Belgium, and one of them had his rucksack stolen in the Grand’ Place.
The loss of two soldiers and two civilians belonging to the African Union peace-keeping mission in Darfur has been a shock for all of us.
I should like to express my most sincere condolences to the African Union and to all the soldiers of the mission, and I should like to say to them that Europe supports them more than ever in the quest for peace.
For too long, relations between Europe and Africa have been characterised by a lack of consistency between the definition and implementation of policies; between, on the one hand, the policies and actions of certain Member States and, on the other, those of the European Commission; between the approach adopted in sub-Saharan Africa and that adopted in North Africa; between cooperation in connection with trade and that in connection with economic development; and between initiatives in connection with traditional socio-economic development and measures in connection with strategic policy.
For the first time, Europe is coherently addressing Africa as a whole from Cairo to the Cape.
This commitment has been given concrete expression by the efforts to integrate the regional economic communities and by the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, or NEPAD, and the launch of the African Union.
I also remember the scepticism surrounding the creation of the African Union three years ago.
The African Union is a major strategic player and, I would even venture to say, a player that, as far as we are concerned, cannot be ignored on the African continent.
For the first time too, this strategy creates a framework of action for Europe as a whole.
Enlargement of the European Union to include ten new Member States has reinforced this need because it has increased the number of potential individual partners to 26: 25 Member States plus the European Community.
In the past, the absence of coordination and complementarity between donors has often prevented development policies leading to practical and effective results.
The European Union has already done a lot to improve this situation, particularly within the framework of the High Level Forum on the effectiveness of aid, held in Paris in March 2005.
I also think that the European Union should broaden its budgetary support both generally and on a sectoral basis.
For the first time, the European Union finally possesses a global and integrated framework for its different policies for administering its relations with Africa.
As I have already said on several occasions in this very Chamber, priority will be given to sub-Saharan Africa in applying all the decisions we have taken in terms of increasing the quantity, quality, effectiveness and coherence of aid.
Recent experience – and I am thinking in particular of opportunities for peace in Africa – show how security and development are intimately linked and how important it is for European policies in these areas to be tightly coordinated.
Together, these measures constitute a joint, global and coherent response by the European Union to the challenge of African development.
These measures are ambitious and are obviously very wide-ranging indeed but, in order fundamentally to change the course of history, we need to do more: we need to clarify our basic approach, the spirit of our relations and, perhaps also sometimes, our mentality.
In order to do this, three key principles have to be applied: equality, appropriation and dialogue.
The emergence of the African Union and the regional economic communities, on the one hand, and the consolidation of European integration, on the other, have created a more symmetrical and more equal institutional framework.
Europe has more to offer than development aid.
It has a unique experience of integration, dialogue and the construction of supranational political institutions, despite the fact that integration has sometimes been slow and has never been easy.
The European Union and Africa share the same values and the same objectives.
We believe in a much more multilateral world order, fairer development and the promotion of diversity.
More than ever, our two continents must be strategic allies within the international community.
The African Union’s and NEPAD’s vision of good governance, democracy and respect for human rights deserves the European Union’s support.
This purely African initiative has brought a new dimension to the concept of appropriation as a basis for dialogue and cooperation with each country and region and with the continent as a whole.
The very wording of the strategy for Africa is the prime example of the way in which these three principles should be applied.
I should also like to thank the regional organisations and the African Union for their exhaustive, constructive and judicious contribution to drawing up the document.
Too often, strategies were prepared ‘in relation to’ or ‘for’ our African partners, rather than with them.
The joint meeting with the Commission of the African Union has shown just how motivated and committed my colleagues are.
I think we should be pleased with a communication that proposes a long-term strategy to achieve the Millennium Development Goals in Africa.
The Commission presented the report today and values Parliament’s contribution, but if we want to make a contribution in time and present a position, we have already missed the boat for amendments.
Whilst the report clearly pinpoints the problems and suggests helpful solutions, it cannot convince me that, as the Commissioner often tells us, this new strategy enables more to be done more effectively and more quickly, not least because of the expectations of our own European functioning.
As the Commissioner said, coherence and coordination of our own policy are vital if we want to increase effectiveness.
I doubt whether this new strategy really offers the right instruments for this.
The primary responsibility is theirs.
It is right and proper that the Commissioner should mention the Millennium Development Goals as our starting point and our ultimate goal.
Whilst they are fine ideas, I cannot quite follow them where they concern priorities in the fight against poverty.
It is true that for the first time we are being asked to tackle the issue of development in Africa on a multitude of interconnected levels, in a long-term plan.
Let us hope that at the European Council in December this innovative approach receives resolute backing from the EU’s governments.
Anyway, we all know that in order to meet the majority of the Millennium Goals, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, focused commitment on development aid and a properly complementary approach to all kinds of intervention are needed.
That can only happen within a context of European consensus, which can place every bilateral relation within an overall coherent framework.
I believe it is even more important to place aid and development policies, over and above national interests – and I would like to draw the Commission’s attention to this point – under the principle of ownership, including budget aid: the Africans should be placed in a position to be able to build their own future and to assume full responsibility for it.
I hope that Europe will be able to play its role to the full at the next Hong Kong Conference, particularly with regard to issues that are decisive for the ownership of development policies by the African continent, such as the issue of duties, tariffs and export subsidies.
Finally, I would like to add that a special mission falls to this Parliament, in the face of European public opinion that is often apt to think that the situation in Africa is desperate.
We have therefore set Millennium Development Goals.
I should like to draw your attention to the fact that these goals must not be seen as sacrosanct, because if, by any chance, we do not achieve them, there will be a sense of desperation and failure and we will be back to square one, which will be an extremely harmful outcome.
Let us be humble, however, and point out firstly that, while public aid is undoubtedly a lever for development, the effect it has is miniscule in comparison to what private sector funds could do to develop Africa and, secondly, that we must be wary of tackling Africa, complex as it is, with simple ideas.
For our part, we must firstly have confidence in the institutions with which Africa is providing itself.
Secondly, our policies must be coherent and coordinated.
What it offers is more of the same failed policies, because the shocking fact is that the number of people living in poverty in Africa continues to grow.
On economic partnership agreements, ACP countries must have the guarantee of continued non-reciprocal access if they choose it.
At the World Trade Organization, the Commission must ensure that negotiations on non-agricultural market access take into full account the needs of African countries to protect their infant industries.
On services, the Commission must abandon its new benchmarking proposal that would force poorer countries to open their service sectors, in complete contradiction to what the Commission has guaranteed in the past about flexibility on services.
A new strategy must be based on new values: the values of fair trade and cooperation, rather than free trade and more competition.
That is what we need to see from the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I share Mr&#160;Michel’s sorrow concerning the deaths of the two African Union soldiers in Darfur.
In my opinion, the issue of immigration will have to be closely linked to the problems of development.
That being so, I strongly believe that the Council, Parliament and the Commission must work in unison, since in reality – as Mr&#160;Zani has noted – it is very often the Member States that have the upper hand.
Given that the European Union is not the only major aid donor in Africa, the presence and the policies of such international institutions as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund should also be reinforced.
The financial requirements of African countries must also be taken into consideration as an essential element.
As is pointed out in the document in question, it would also be opportune to involve civil society and national parliaments more closely in putting together the country strategy paper.
Mr&#160;Michel has mentioned peace, security and good government.
The security issue must, however, be understood as pertaining to human security as well, not simply to the tragedies that have followed 11 September.
Above all, I believe that our policies should consider a form of peace and security that, for example, accords with the definitions of official development assistance.
The European Union plays a pivotal role in the area of development, providing 55% of world development aid, most of which goes to Africa.
During the United Nations summit in New York in September 2005, the EU strongly affirmed its will to contribute to the achievements of the Millennium Development Goals.
The first of these ambitious eight goals is the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger.
Donating vast sums of money is admirable, but it carries with it responsibilities: a responsibility on the part of the donor – ultimately you and I – and a responsibility on the part of the recipients, in this case Africa.
The overriding objective of poverty reduction is based on the complementary aim of promoting good governance and respect for human rights.
We need to reward the African countries that acknowledge the concept of democracy and respect for human rights and we must continue condemning corrupt regimes which are slowly but surely destroying their countries. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, as well as listening intently to your speech here, I carefully read the communication that I believe the Commission adopted this morning, and I should like to begin by congratulating you.
I trust you will continue to work on the basis of workable, effective and simple solutions, because this is the best way forward for the policy of cooperation between the EU and Africa. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the horrendous incidents of recent weeks, with hundreds of Africans hurling themselves in their droves in an attempt to get from Morocco into Ceuta and Melilla, have shocked public opinion.
This is nothing new; for years we have been witnessing the desperation that forces these men and women to risk their lives in order to enter Europe, or rather in order to escape Africa, despite the fact that Africa is their land.
The strategy for Africa proposed by the Commission and the effort proposed by the British Presidency could respond to the need to react in the face of an issue about which the only clear thing is that we are facing a European problem for which that very European dimension is the only solution, the Union dimension, combined with that of the Member States.
The development of Africa is vital for Africa, but also for Europe.
The Commission’s communication is being presented, and it should be called ‘The European strategy for the development of Africa’.
What is being proposed to us seems to us to be sufficiently ambitious, but not sufficiently precise, and also long and, above all, complicated to organise; in any event, it is a step in the right direction.
The EU and its Member States give developing countries aid from the budget and the European Development Fund.
Unquestionably, quite extraordinary efforts are needed if Africa is to be lifted out of poverty, and it is therefore appropriate for the EU to prepare an overall strategy on our relations with Africa.
That is directly contrary to the principles of aid effectiveness and sound donor behaviour on which the EU helped decide at the Paris High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness, held in March of this year.
The African countries should be at the centre of aid coordination, proceeding on the basis of their own strategies to combat poverty.
If we scrap everything we have achieved in this area in order to speak with one voice as part of a top-down strategy, what we are in danger of seeing, instead of a competently conducted fight against poverty, is a whole caravan of white elephants invade the African continent.
I should like to ask the Commission what basically is the meaning of the four points in paragraph 3.3 and whether these contradict what we have said so far, namely that it must be the countries’ own poverty strategies that form the basis for our work. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, Africa is an unfortunate continent.
This is particularly important as international capital tends to be supported by its countries of origin, which is most undesirable.
Secondly, there is education, education and education.
Europe is hardly doing anything in this regard, but could be doing a great deal.
We should build on the resources of Africa.
I am sure those things are all fundamentally important, but so too are health and education.
I would like to see and hear more about the Commissioner’s previous commitments to me on neglected diseases and the reports we have brought through Parliament in the past.
High tariffs, keeping out African goods, need to be cut, but African countries need time before opening up their markets.
Member States should be held responsible for corrupt practices by their own staff and agents.
This is not on the report either, but it makes an enormous difference, particularly in health services in Africa.
The arms and mines which are killing thousands of people and have done so in Africa over generations were mostly made in the Soviet Union.
We must, as Europeans, do far more to control arms brokering and the transit trade which takes place from our own continent.
They must themselves decide what is in their interests.
That also applies to our research policy.
By the same token, even the best aid programmes will be of no use if we do not help people there to help themselves, or if we fail to embed democracy and the rule of law there in such a manner that they are not fragile plants but can put down strong roots; what matters is that we should enable Africans to have a hand in shaping their own destiny and to take responsibility for how they do that.
We need to concentrate our strengths; a policy in which the left hand does not know what the right is doing must be a thing of the past, and, most of all, we need a policy of optimism, and it is with that in mind that I would like to congratulate the Commissioner on his paper, and on the confidence to which it gives voice.
I do know, though, that, even with combined strengths, it will take a long time before Africa is where we would like it to be, and, on the way there, we must try to help Africa to avoid making all the mistakes that we made in the course of our history.
They are welcome to derive some benefit from our experience. &#160;&#160; – Ceuta and Melilla demonstrate that, regardless of the rhetoric, Europe’s strategy towards Africa is failing.
I welcome the words of Mr Michel, who rightly said that what we need is a coherent strategy for Africa; a strategy that enhances the effectiveness of our development policy and enables us to fulfil the Millennium Goals.
An integral part of this strategy is fighting against the impunity of those responsible for crimes against humanity, by making use of the International Criminal Court and other courts.
We need a Union that provides more practical support for electoral processes, civil society, NGOs, democratic institutions, the empowerment of women and good governance in Africa.
In fact, within the resolution on oil dependency adopted by the European Parliament during its last part-session, the need for a sustainable energy policy was emphasised as part of the EU’s policy of promoting development.
As you are aware, there are signs of a serious oil crisis hitting the European Union and the North in general and, at the same time, we can see that oil resources, which are so plentiful in Africa, have not benefited – to say the least - the development of the local communities.
I would cite the example of Nigeria, which has the largest population and which, although one of the wealthiest African countries in terms of its resources, has not seen the development that it requires.
I should like to hear your proposals on this matter. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as my good friend and former colleague Stefano Manservisi is in my office, I will of course begin by praising this report.
We need to combine forces and invest our efforts in one common development policy, which is also something the Commission is in favour of.
Secondly, I would like to say that the ‘Euro-Africa Pact’ proposed by the Commission in its communication seems like an excellent idea.
Thirdly, I want to say that the World Trade Organisation’s Doha Round of talks now in progress needs to achieve results that will improve the Africans’ chances of operating in global markets.
Fourthly, I want to say that peace, stability, healthcare and good governance are priority goals for many still unstable African countries.
Finally, I want to say that it is ultimately the Africans themselves who are responsible for development in Africa.
I therefore support the Commission on this issue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to acknowledge the political courage demonstrated by the Commission, in particular Commissioner Louis Michel, in presenting this strategic plan for Africa, which I hope will not be remembered as a catalogue of good intentions — with which the road to hell is paved — but as a Michel Plan, to some extent in the mould of the Marshall Plan.
Furthermore, I believe that this is the appropriate time to do it.
I would like to remind you that the President-in-Office of the Council, Tony Blair, also raised this issue — I regret that he is not here, because I believe that this is a commitment that we must all share — and I would like to stress something that has already been pointed out by the Commissioner: the President of the African Union has also been involved in the presentation of this plan, which demonstrates a desire for parity and partnership.
Secondly, Mr President, with a view to the Hong Kong Round negotiations, we must find a way to make the defence of our interests compatible with opening up to Africa in the agricultural field. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one of the principles that the Commissioner mentioned as underpinning this strategy for Africa was its combination of equality and partnership – the latter defined to mean that both the continent of Europe, the European Union and also our African partners believe in the multilateral order and work to establish it.
I am often asked why the European Union, through association agreements, puts a lot of money into a country that has, for almost exactly thirty years, been occupied by another in contravention of every international law.
When considering this strategy for Africa, there are two things to which we must give a great deal of attention: one is the fact that the generation of young people we are dealing with is the most numerous that human history has ever seen, and the other is the spreading pandemic of HIV/Aids. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the proposal by the European Commission and Commissioner Louis Michel on a new strategic partnership between the European Union and Africa really does break away from the development policy of the European Union applied in the past.
No international strategy for Africa will succeed unless it helps to consolidate democratic institutions, fight the established autocracy, strengthen civil society and defend human rights and democratic freedoms.
The implementation of the objective being set by the European Commission to strengthen regional, economic and commercial integration is of decisive importance in combating poverty and to the economic development of the African continent.
A few weeks ago, the Heads of State or Government met in New York.
The desperate situation in Africa has recently been illustrated by images on our television screens: images of men prepared to die on the barbed fencing of our continent in order to gain better prospects and a future for themselves and their children, as well as for their country and their continent.
We are all aware that, in order to help Africa overcome poverty, war, hunger and violence, a process and financial resources must be put in place.
We have known what our responsibilities are for a long time.
The European Union has a long tradition of promoting development in the African continent, but the results have generally fallen short of the mark.
I am not one of those people who believe that economic liberalisation automatically leads to social progress and, while we are on that subject, I am concerned about the free trade agreements with the ACP countries.
I believe that our investments need to be focused primarily on education, training, research, health care and public services.
In short, what practical implementation will take place and what resources will be allocated to this strategy? &#160;&#160; .
The real answer lies in strong development policies, very forceful policies that open up prospects in the countries in which the migratory flows originate.
That is the answer, and the strategy I presented to you provides, in my opinion, an ambitious response to the desire to find a sustainable way of resolving these kinds of tragedy, injustice and unfairness.
It therefore goes without saying that I share your alertness to these matters.
I believe that matters must be clear between us with regard to this point: I do not want my plan for Africa to become a kind of Christmas tree to which every MEP, pressure group, NGO or member of civil society comes to hang his or her bauble, at the risk of our losing sight of the main point.
Members have spoken about the effectiveness of the strategy.
You cannot call on the Commissioner to stand firm on issues that are not entirely within his control.
As regards the Commission, you simply have my good will and my commitment.
I also call on you to do something: to help me to succeed in convincing the Member States.
What is, in fact, perhaps unusual about the proposal I am making is that I am trying to outline a framework, a common strategy between the Commission and the Member States to enable the work on promoting development to be divided up more effectively.
We would make great gains in efficiency and, above all, our policy would be more effective.
Consequently, the Member States will have a crucial role to play.
Well, – and I am addressing the person who questioned me slightly oddly on this issue – the people of Africa have asked us precisely to focus on infrastructure as a priority.
With regard to natural resources, you will see in the document that we plan to include among the conditions attached to budgetary aid for partner countries the requirement that they allocate the income generated from their natural resources to their national budgets.
I should still like to address two aspects, beginning with weapons.
Yet, I would remind you that, at European level, there is a code of ethics that the Member States have undertaken to observe.
That is what I wanted to say, and we are going to continue our work along those lines.
I would remind you of another obvious fact: we are the only group of countries in the world that practices the ‘Everything but Arms’ process.
As regards the economic partnership agreements - the EPAs – their goal is development, in particular through aid for regional integration.
For example, promoting South-South trade is one of the priorities of the Africans.
President&#160;Konaré fully explained this to us this morning.
All of that is obviously very ideological and I always have great respect for ideological ‘extremes’, because I can understand them.
I would draw your attention to the fact that, despite all our preferences and despite all the systems of preference in place, there has been no end to the decline in the contribution of our ‘preferential’ partners to international trade.
We must provide them with the resources really to adapt and to become part of the global economy.
I will conclude by making a final remark, because I believe that it is important: it is not the small ACP countries that will benefit the most from these preferences, but the large exporting countries like Brazil.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; Once again, we witness the EU throwing stones from its glass house.
And before you preach any more sermons, start addressing your own bad governance here. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the Commission statement on the situation in Ethiopia. &#160;&#160; .
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the coordinated action of the European Union in the management of this crisis.
The UK Presidency, the EU High Representative, Javier Solana, and myself have maintained continuous high-level contacts.
The message from the European Union, which was relayed by the troika at Addis Ababa, was, and is, to call on all of the political parties to keep the electoral process and the political dialogue on track.
I also welcome the progress made since 2&#160;October in the dialogue between the government and the opposition.
On that occasion, I wrote to the Prime&#160;Minister to express my concern regarding the climate of tension among the various political forces and the need to keep all of the channels of communication open.
The proper and normal functioning of Parliament is a prerequisite for a multi-party political scene in Ethiopia being established and for democracy in the country taking root.
The same would be true if the new majority were not to be introduced for the running of the capital, Addis Ababa.
I am convinced that the European Union must continue to be involved in a constructive, yet firm and demanding, dialogue with all of the parties in order to continue to have a positive bearing and influence on the process under way in Ethiopia.
I should like to make one final remark: I am concerned about the renewed tension between Ethiopia and Eritrea.
The events of the last few days unfortunately confirm the picture.
The negotiations between the opposition and the government party broke down a few days ago after the government had refused to discuss what, in my view, was a quite natural desire for democratic reforms.
The consequence was a law removing these members’ immunity.
Those members of the opposition who did attend the sitting were refused the right to participate in the proceedings.
However, according to my information, a stalemate still exists despite the fact that the Ethiopian Parliament has already been convened.
I am particularly concerned and I am aware of the special relationship the British Presidency holds with our allies on the other side of the Atlantic.
The unity of the international community and of the donor communities in this respect is essential.
Regarding the election, we must keep faith with the facts observed by the European Union observation mission and the Carter Center, which are that the process leading up to the 15&#160;May was well run, but that the process after 15&#160;May had some irregularities.
The fact that opposition leaders who have stated their commitment to working within a constitutional framework cannot easily communicate through the media to their own supporters is particularly dangerous at a time when everybody needs to stay calm.
If the political process breaks down, then it is not just the opposition parties in Ethiopia who will be the losers.
Ethiopia as a nation will be the loser, because it will go overnight from being a leading light in Africa, a beacon for hope and progress whose President chaired the Commission for Africa, to becoming a failed state.
Hundreds have been arrested, the big opposition parties’ offices have been stripped and locked, the media have been monopolised and it is impossible for the opposition to express itself in public and, by now, at all in parliament.
The government’s attitude and actions are dramatically exacerbating the situation.
Once the opposition had accepted the outcome of the election, they were denied the opportunity of working in Parliament.
Political solutions are also needed, but all that these more discreet efforts of ours have involved so far is further humiliation and destruction of the opposition.
I should like to congratulate the Commission for the part it has played on this occasion and offer my thanks not only to the European Union representative in Ethiopia, Mr&#160;Tim&#160;Clarke – to whom I send my regards – for the exceptional work he has done, but also to Mrs&#160;Gomes for the great wisdom she has shown in this situation.
I applaud the Commission for its role in encouraging dialogue and cooperation and putting pressure on all those involved: on the government and the forces of the majority party but also on the opposition parties, since these too have different ways of proceeding and acting.
It is nevertheless important to continue working towards cooperation and dialogue, so as to try to make the democratic process a reality. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a member of the delegation of short-term observers, I should like to thank particularly the long-term observers for the work they have done.
The caution evident in these resolutions is something that we should progressively abandon. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the situation in Ethiopia is becoming less stable with every day that passes, and responsibility for that rests primarily with the government.
If they are not prepared to create the conditions for democracy, they are showing their true colours as yet another example of what we have seen so often in Africa, namely that elections are regarded as acceptable only if they confirm the existing government.
Ninety per cent of Ethiopians have stated what they expect of democratic elections and the government must accept their judgment upon it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, it is surprising that I should take the floor to speak about the worsening crisis in Ethiopia, but it is a country about which I care a great deal, because it is where one of my compatriots, Karlheinz Böhm, has people working for the good of others, and he keeps on mobilising aid – aid that is a drop in the ocean.
I am also very much in favour of sending an ad hoc committee of this House to Ethiopia and support Mrs Gomes’ project.
The more that the European Union – and every level of it – is visibly present the better, for we are thereby making it a matter of record that we will not allow the crisis in that country to get any worse. &#160;&#160; .
Mr&#160;President, I shall be very brief because, in fact, I agree to a very large extent with what has been said in this House.
I should also like to congratulate and to thank Mrs&#160;Gomes for having kept her head during certain moments, which I can understand must have been trying for her.
I thank her for having seen this observation mission through in an entirely positive and proper manner.
My belief, in fact, is that if, within a rather short timeframe, the Prime&#160;Minister does not fulfil a minimum number of our expectations, then it will be extremely difficult to pursue the political dialogue as things currently stand.
All of these messages have been sent to the Prime&#160;Minister.
I have also spoken at great length with the members of the opposition to urge them to take up their seats in Parliament in order to make the parliamentary institution function.
Under Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreements, the dialogue is always open, and I believe that this dialogue is the most appropriate means of keeping the door open and of encouraging the parties to make constructive steps.
That being said, I am monitoring very closely how the political situation is developing, and I will not disguise from you the fact that even I, being very conscious of the dangers of a chaotic situation, am slowly beginning to grow impatient.
With these elections, in fact, we are in a whole different scenario, and if the Prime&#160;Minister wishes to continue to benefit from an show of support from the international community, then he must make sure that he does not abuse it.
Therefore, I broadly agree, Mr&#160;President, with what has been said in this House. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
With regard to the context, I must point out that this report is intended to alert the Council to the European Union’s delays in implementing the Lisbon Strategy in the field of education and training.
As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the Spring European Council of 22 and 23 March 2005 set the objective of making the European area of education and training a reality.
In a very recent working document dedicated to the progress made in the achievement of the Lisbon objectives in the fields of education and training, published on 11 April 2005, the Commission services have analysed the performances of thirty education and training systems.
On the basis of the analysis of the very precise data available in this document, I would like to comment on the six priority fields in which I believe the Member States must act urgently, if we want education to keep its place at the heart of the Lisbon process.
These six priorities, which I have already listed within the Committee on Culture and Education, are the following: to reduce the high number of young people leaving school early; to tackle the need for a sufficient number of scientists; to implement lifelong education and training strategies that are consistent and that promote social inclusion; to attract more than one million people to the teaching profession over the next decade; to tackle the fact that most pupils in the European Union do not achieve the objective of learning at least two foreign languages; and, finally, to strengthen the open method of coordination and the exchange of good practice in the field of education and training.
First of all, with the aim of developing skills in keeping with the needs of a knowledge-based society, it would appear vital that the Member States quickly take initiatives to, on the one hand, speed up the mobility of students, trainees, workers and their families and researchers and, on the other, to develop social inclusion policies for underprivileged young people afflicted by poverty.
Thirdly, the report stresses the need for our Parliament to indicate its support for the initiative of a pilot project aimed at creating an Erasmus-type programme for apprentices in order to facilitate access by apprentices to ‘new generation’ Community education and training programmes.
Fourthly, within the framework of the budgetary debate, I feel it would be useful also to point to the need for the European Union to guarantee sufficient methods of funding for the new integrated action programme in the field of lifelong education and training.
We must also ensure that the European Social Fund continues to be available after 2006 in all the Member States of the European Union.
Fifthly, the report calls on the Council to provide for an appropriate budgetary allocation in the next financial perspective for all measures relating to lifelong education and training, on which attainment of the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy will largely depend.
Finally, sixthly, this report alerts the Member States to the need to implement, without delay, more consistent national training policies aimed at improving the conditions for access by job-seekers and workers.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are at a crucial time for the European Union.
Recent political events have alerted us to the need to place citizens’ education and the fight against unemployment at the heart of all of our public policies.
Furthermore, and I say this clearly both to you and to our colleagues in the Commission and the Council, unless an appropriate budget is allocated to education at European level, there will never be any real European citizenship and it will still be just as difficult for the twenty-five countries to agree on a common European project that they can pursue together.
I am therefore counting on your support so that we can send a strong message to the Member States that they must urgently put education back at the heart of the Lisbon Strategy. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, Mr Bono’s report comes at a crucial moment for the Lisbon Strategy.
In particular, I want to thank Mr Bono for his excellent work.
The ideas developed in this report will be very helpful for the Commission.
More and more countries are defining national strategies but implementation remains the key challenge across Europe.
A cornerstone is the one at the corner.
I have a small political problem, which is that he does not represent my party, but even if it were my party in government, I would criticise my party and my government as I criticise my opponents, because they never take education seriously.
I will give just one example, very briefly, of British teachers trained in England who cannot find employment in France or Italy because the educational authorities deny respect for their qualifications because they come from a different Member State.
The new Member States are less developed than the older ones in many areas, but not in relation to education.
Non-discriminatory access should mean equal chances provided by the Member States to children from the lower classes as well as ethnic minorities.
In some Member States, such as Hungary, universities have entrance examinations.
She told me about a pilot project run by them and the European Union, which already provided useful information on entrepreneurship for around a thousand Turkish teachers.
This kind of pilot project should be encouraged by us. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it was in the context of the Lisbon process that, on behalf of the ALDE Group, I discussed the resolution adopted by the European Parliament.
What we observe is that the proposals made by the Commission and supported by all the large groups in the European Parliament are not at all supported by the Council of Ministers.
The same applies to the proposals in the EU area on the subject of education.
The issue of lifelong learning was mentioned in the debate.
That is obviously an incredibly important basis for all citizens’ being able to participate in this knowledge-driven economy.
Finally, our group will support this report.
We think that the rapporteur has done a very good job, but we do in actual fact require much more stringent measures.
Socrates and Erasmus have injected life into Europe’s schools and universities with splendid success.
Apprentices and vocational trainees, young professionals and people undergoing practical training still need much more to be done to get them on the move.
No real initiative is in sight, unfortunately. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, the report that has been tabled focuses on education as the cornerstone of the Lisbon Strategy.
It highlights a number of the problems that we are currently facing, which in my opinion is the correct approach.
The latter interpretation of education has already gained acceptance once before in our history, thanks to Jan Ámos Komenský, the teacher of nations.
This problem notwithstanding, however, I agree that education must be our priority, in particular with regard to the budgetary support referred to in paragraph&#160;17.
They are often provided with opportunities to gain an education, but find it difficult to engage in the education process, to find an appropriate career or to secure recognition of the education we offer them.
As well as focusing our attention on young people, we must also change our approach to people of other ages.
However, decisions on education must be made by the Member States.
The lack of realism within this report is emphasised by the appeal for a 15% increase in the number of science graduates in the EU between now and 2010.
In this context the report serves to highlight the fact that, irrespective of the level of investment made by the Member States in education and training, if businesses and industry have relocated due to suffocating regulation, the investment will not be returned.
This report ignores the fact that, at the current rate of progress, the Lisbon objectives will not be reached.
You do not have to be a graduate to understand that. &#160;&#160; Rapporteur Bono stated very correctly that education is one of the most important prerequisites for making Europe the most dynamic economy by 2010.
Levels of education in our country are among the highest in the European Union.
Our students already study two foreign languages as compulsory subjects at secondary level, and most university study programmes are of a five-year duration.
Three-year bachelor programmes are offered in only some fields of study.
Since the accession of the Slovak Republic to the European Union, many students from Slovakia have taken advantage of the opportunities created by free movement and have pursued part of their education abroad, either within the framework of the Erasmus programme or through postgraduate studies.
However, our students have had to confront a particular problem related to the free movement of persons.
To be able to work, they need a work visa, with the exceptions of Ireland and the United Kingdom, since most countries have imposed a transitional period on our country that prevents the free movement of workers.
Visas often limit the number of working hours to 20 per week, sometimes even less.
These restrictions frustrate the free movement of students.
Because of the weaker economies of the new Member States, our students should be allowed to study and work at the same time, and we should therefore try to remove the administrative barriers to granting work or student visas. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it is unlikely that any Member of this House will oppose the initiative to promote education in Europe as part of the Lisbon Strategy.
In view of the time I have available, it is obviously impossible for me to discuss every detail of these synergies, which could ultimately result in more modern universities and hence better university education.
It is a well-known fact that research turns money into knowledge, and that innovation turns knowledge into money.
Economic research has shown that cooperation between universities and business, the availability of capital for innovation and development and the promotion of public-private partnerships make a major contribution to a country’s overall innovation potential.
The quality of projects must be the deciding factor when granting access to such funds, rather than compliance with convoluted official requirements.
Straightforward, flexible and transparent projects, together with the relevant legal requirements, are crucial if the modernisation of universities is to get off to a flying start. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Lisbon Strategy states that the Union must become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
In our increasingly materialistic and purely economy-based societies, it is not surprising that many policy makers have wrongly understood this transformation to mean mainly the mass production of first class economists, scientists and other professionals, and have accordingly given most weight to the achievement of this aim.
They are unable to deal with the special needs of the physically disabled or those with learning difficulties such as dyslexia, which accounts for approximately 10% of our student population.
Equally, they are unable to deal with the special needs of children from problematic socio-economic backgrounds and disturbed situations.
This, in our opinion, changes the nature of education and turns it into a vulgar commodity.
True democratisation in education does not mean access for all young people to retraining and to fragmented knowledge; it means a standard, free, state education up to the age of 18 which will give them an integrated knowledge base.
The adoption of the European Youth Pact by the Heads of State or Government on 22 and 23 March 2005 is a development of particular importance for this sector.
That is because, for the first time, common lines of action are being defined for all the Member States in important fields of European policy, such as employment and education.
The objective of this pact is to improve education, training, mobility, professional assimilation and the social integration of the young people of the European Union.
Consequently, it is a basic precondition to safeguarding constant and viable development in Europe, given that young people are the future manpower and the future source of research capabilities, innovation and entrepreneurship.
The Member States should also bear in mind that 17.9% of unemployed are young people under 25 years of age.
Another proposal which would make it easier to achieve the Lisbon objectives is the convergence of the education systems of the 25.
In this way, the quality of European education could be guaranteed and the Member States could plan more cohesive policies, in order to improve their performance in relation to the Lisbon objectives.
In addition, reducing the number of young people who leave school early and widening access to higher education are fundamental objectives which should be achieved by 2010.
To close, improving the foreign language skills of young people is an important requirement for the young people of Europe and contributes to the society of knowledge. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the rapporteur very much for such an interesting and detailed report on the subject of education in Europe.
In my view, it contains many challenges to which Europe should rise.
Today’s young people are growing up in a world characterised by ruthless competition.
In a society governed by money it is common for a lack of money to result in aggression and a range of disorders.
The number of juvenile delinquents is increasing at an alarming rate.
That is why I believe that the Union’s educational programmes should not overlook the important issue of good quality teacher training.
The second issue I should like to raise concerns the quality of higher education.
In many countries the educational system has still not responded to the challenges of globalisation, the world of the Internet and cutting edge technology.
All languages should have equal opportunity, and none should be discriminated against.
This is particularly important in connection with education for peace, as the declaration on educating societies in the spirit of peace states that: ‘just as wars begin in the minds of men, peace also begins in our minds’.
This can only be brought about through an appropriate educational system based on teaching tolerance, openness, equality and knowledge about others.
It is on these fundamental values that education in 21st&#160;century schools must be based. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the issue we are debating is one of fundamental importance to a great many Members of this House.
Investment in education never goes to waste.
Lifelong learning plays a key role in education, which is about much more than just schools.
Adequate sources of funding must be made available in order to ensure that the majority of these demands can be met, and I should therefore like to add my voice to the calls for the EU to guarantee sufficient funding to cover the relevant costs.
All EU Member States must continue to have access to the European Social Fund after 2006.
Comparisons of individual education systems have revealed a great many astonishing findings.
This would allow the performance and progress of individual education systems to be assessed.
A special responsibility and mission has fallen to the universities of Lithuania and all EU Member States as we implement the Lisbon Strategy and strive for a European Union that is a knowledge-based, economic union for dynamic development.
Europeans live in a complicated social and political world; they aspire to plan their own lives; they have to live and work in conditions of cultural, ethnic and linguistic diversity; and besides, they are expected to take an active part in society and decision-making.
Lifelong learning must become an important principle, and we must make a combined effort to strive for this vision, by implementing national programmes, with the active participation of Member States, and where necessary, with support and contributions from communities.
We must give priority to this goal and find sufficient funds in the new financial perspective. &#160;&#160; .
Whether we refer to education as a cornerstone, or a central or key theme, it is obvious that without improved, higher-quality and more accessible education and training it will be impossible to develop suitable economic and social responses to the Lisbon Strategy or to the current problems of Europe or the Member States of the Union.
I am convinced that education should be a central priority both here and – of course particularly in the policies of the Member States.
I look forward to developing these types of policy and cooperation for the benefit of education in Europe. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Mrs Novak, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on the proposal for a recommendation of the Council and of the European Parliament on further European cooperation in quality assurance in higher education (COM(2004)0642 – C6-0142/2004 – 2004/0239(COD)) (A6-0261/2005). &#160;&#160; .
Exactly one year ago, on 12&#160;October 2004, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council and Parliament recommendation on further European cooperation and quality assurance in higher education.
This proposal is based on the results of the 1998 Council recommendation, so we are just continuing to work towards the goals agreed between the Member States.
Discussions between the British Presidency, Parliament and the Commission have led to a set of compromise amendments which are the subject of your debate and vote during this part-session.
This is in our common interest, given the fact that Bologna signatory states and EU Member States are the same countries.
As regards recommendation C and point 1 of the Annex on the European Register, the amendments stress the role of the national authorities in the setting-up of a European register of quality assurance agencies.
The amendments reflect the responsibility of public authorities for the national quality assurance systems.
This recommendation calls on Member States to enable higher education institutions to choose an agency from the register which meets their needs and profile.
I am happy that the principle of free choice remains in the text because it is important.
We consider that deletion of the licensing and funding purpose in the text does not exclude that national authorities may use foreign assessments as a basis for funding and licensing decisions.
Higher education must become more transparent and even more reliable in the eyes of students and the citizens of Europe and also in the eyes of those living in other continents.
In this way we wish to encourage all institutions of higher education to develop strict internal mechanisms for quality assurance and to apply the results of all assessments in order to bring about further improvement.
The standards and guidelines as proposed by the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education have already been adopted – specifically at the meeting of ministers for higher education, which was held on 19 and 20 May 2005 in Bergen within the framework of the Bologna process.
However, these common general standards and guidelines cannot be an impediment to development, and we need to encourage diversity and innovation among higher education institutions.
Ministers have also welcomed the proposal to establish a European register of quality assurance agencies, and have called upon the competent authorities to pursue the further development of the practical aspects of implementation.
Our report also stresses that, in order to avoid disparities, European Union activities in the area of quality assurance in higher education should be developed in line with the Bologna process, in which 45 European countries are involved.
For the purposes of assessment or additional assessment aimed at enhancing their international standing in relation to their needs and profile, higher education institutions will be able to choose independently from the agencies in the Register, in accordance with national legislation or agreements with the competent authorities.
The more the European Union improves the quality of education on all levels, the greater will its opportunities be for at least coming close to the goals of the Lisbon Strategy.
Higher education in Europe must be improved in order to make it more transparent and to enhance its reputation, both for our citizens and for students and researchers from other continents.
It would be in the interests of individual Member States to find out how their universities perform in international comparisons, since it is the Member States which confer the right to award academic degrees, and which, in the majority of cases, also fund study towards such degrees.
The Council has recommended that the Member States should set up quality assurance agencies in the field of education and accreditation.
Those most affected by the problems in question, namely students and university employees, should also be involved in the overall assessment system.
Quality assurance at European level necessitates the drawing up of a trustworthy list or register of independent and reliable quality assurance agencies.
The Member States’ own quality criteria are every bit as important as those of individual universities or those that apply on an international level to European higher education competing with other countries.
The assessment should rely on the standards and procedures adopted at Bergen, although these should not be regarded as static and unchangeable.
If we reject this proposal by the Commission, we would lose an especially important European vehicle, one which helps to ensure the quality of higher education throughout the European Union and to avoid squandering funds. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, many countries have made, and are making, considerable progress in the establishment of quality assurance systems and in promoting cooperation in the Union, which represents progress in the development of a European Higher Education Area.
Nevertheless, I would like to insist on the need to take a further step by means of effective cooperation and coordination amongst these bodies, both national and European, since achieving mutual recognition of quality assurance systems and quality assessments is positive for all of the citizens, in that it facilitates the recognition of academic qualifications amongst Member States and the mobility of students and teachers.
Both issues are key to improving our levels of education and the creation of a common European consciousness.
As stated by the Commission in 2002, the European educational model should serve as an example to the rest of the world where quality is concerned.
The decisions taken at Bologna, Prague and Bergen are therefore crucial, and one of their main features is European accreditation.
On the other hand, the immediate introduction of overly strict provisions may lead to serious difficulties for certain institutions that have not yet achieved their full potential.
In such cases, it is important to give the institutions a chance to remedy their shortcomings.
All aspects of research and teaching must also have a moral dimension.
I am convinced that we have now entered the decisive second half of the Bologna process and that the credibility of the entire Bologna process is strongly linked to quality, which under the proposed system should be a matter of mutual trust.
That is also why this issue is so very important for the future of European higher education, and for its attractiveness and status in the world, and here I naturally agree with many other speakers.
One question posed by Mrs Prets specifically concerned Austria and the situation in that country.
This would, on the one hand, satisfy the terms of the EU Treaty, and on the other hand, provide a response to the specific problems or difficulties that we have in connection with mobility.
Their amendments enabled the text to reach plenary with a clear majority in the Committee on Culture and Education.
A further comment before I start: education policies fall under the exclusive responsibility of the Member States.
In any event, it is possible within the current rules to do more and much better to aid the integration of immigrant communities through our education systems.
This is the purpose of the report before us.
What is more, unemployment in Europe has given rise to a feeling of insecurity among Muslim communities.
Schooling systems are required to ensure that immigrants and their children learn not only the language of the host country but also their mother tongues.
The time has now come to extend that right to communities arriving from other parts of the world.
The children of some Members of this House study in European schools created by the Union to facilitate the integration of its employees.
I believe that everyone is proud of this multilingual education, which prepares our children to approach the future without fear.
On a visit to Hamburg I was able to see how this system has been successfully applied to state schools.
It is this view to the future that forms the basis of my report.
The third important proposal in this report is the creation of a European network of schools to which integrated language and content learning projects can apply to join.
The problem is that bilateral agreements between Member States have to battle against swingeing budget cuts and even major shortages of political will.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating Mr Portas on his report, as it makes a relevant contribution to an important debate.
The situation in Europe has changed substantially since the adoption of the last directive on the education of children of migrant workers in 1977.
The teaching needs of migrant children are different and more complex, now covering second and third generations.
Europe has become a truly multilingual area and it is in this context that we must promote languages and language learning.
Mr Portas’ report gives me the opportunity to provide you with some information on what we are already doing and what we intend to do in the future.
Firstly, the work programme on the objectives of education and training systems in Europe sets concrete goals.
In this context, the general objective of improving active citizenship, equal opportunities and social cohesion covers issues such as the access of immigrants and their children to education and training.
Three of the five EU benchmarks are particularly relevant in this context with regard to immigrant populations.
First, language learning is a lifelong activity and should be extended to all citizens.
Everybody should learn their mother tongue plus two other languages from an early age.
The Community programme, in particular the Comenius, Grundtvig and Lingua actions of the Socrates programme, provide support to a wide range of projects, from class and teacher exchanges to the development and dissemination of teaching methodologies.
Promotion of language learning and linguistic diversity is a specific objective of the future new programme.
Transversal action will support networks in the field of language learning and linguistic diversity.
The Culture 2000 Programme encourages intercultural dialogue and exchanges between European and non-European cultures.
This dimension will be further reinforced in the Culture 2007 Programme.
I would like to mention two initiatives in the cultural field which are in line with the report.
I hope to submit to the College before the end of the year a new approach for multilingualism, the first policy paper on multilingualism in the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Portas deserves a great deal of gratitude for his report, which addresses the vitally important subject of the integration of immigrants, a process accomplished particularly and primarily through language.
This applies particularly in the case of people of immigrant background, who have, so to speak, a dual social and cultural identity – that of their country of origin and mother tongue, and the culture and language – or languages, in the case of Belgium – of the new home to which they have come.
Mr Portas’s report has struck a happy medium in that, on the one hand, it stresses the right of every person and every child to general education, which of course has to include the learning of the host country’s language.
On the other hand, though, it also emphasises these children’s right to learn their own mother tongue, and in doing so it is in line with the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which stipulates both the right to education and training and the right to one’s own cultural, religious and linguistic identity.
I, too, regard school education and language acquisition as my political priorities – and they are, indeed, given priority by the Comenius programme in particular.
If both linguistic diversity and migration coincide, then the European Parliament has to have something to say about it, and for that reason I am grateful to Mr Portas for taking the initiative in this way.
Action is needed, though, if this is to happen, and it will need to include such things as targeted teaching materials, staff with inter-cultural skills and, ideally, teaching staff who originate from the host country but have knowledge of the languages of the nations most represented among immigrants.
I would observe that it is very important that women in general and mothers in particular should take part in these integration and education projects, for they are best able to communicate with their children and thereby help their own integration.
The absolute priority, though, both for the children and their parents, if their social and economic integration is to benefit, is the learning of the host country’s language.
The Member States should therefore support any measure to safeguard linguistic diversity and limit the technical difficulties which prevent the achievement of the objective.
The education systems should ensure that all pupils learn foreign languages because the objective of the European Union is and always has been a real multilingual European society.
In addition, the aim of action by the institutions within this framework is to guarantee equal education rights to children who speak a different language in their family environment.
Moreover, learning and speaking other languages, in addition to our mother tongue, encourages us to be more open towards others, to their cultural values and to their opinions.
It should therefore be our objective to shape a society in which the percentage of multilingual citizens, as a factor for unifying society as a whole, increases steadily. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the own initiative report by Mr Portas on integrating immigrants in Europe through schools and multilingual education touches on an issue of capital importance, which concerns all the Member States equally.
This report achieved universal acceptance during the discussions in our committee and Mr Portas received our congratulations.
The right of immigrants' children of school age living in our countries must be extended from learning the host language to learning their mother tongue and to access to the culture of their country of origin.
Learning a mother tongue should not, however, be at the expense of the language of the host country, which must remain the main teaching language.
The multilingualism safeguarded by the Union as a means of dialogue between cultures thus takes on a new integration dimension.
It strengthens cross-culturalism as a new approach in education, it further safeguards multiculturalism as a particular identity of the European area and it highlights preferential development potential for our societies.
These movements have changed the cultural map definitively in numerous countries.
In Greece, for example, the permanent foreign population accounts for 10% of the total population.
They have children of school age and have come to our country to stay.
Nonetheless, we cannot overlook the fact that, when countries expand with different nationalities, xenophobia and racist reactions against people increase worryingly.
Until very recently, our education systems functioned on the basis of an assimilating approach, under which the presence in school of immigrant children with a different linguistic and cultural expression from the official language and culture was approached as a problem which had to be sidelined.
That is why Greece adopted a law back in 1996 introducing cross-cultural education as a basic element of its education system. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is sad that education, which we have agreed is the cornerstone, and the keystone, is always on very late at night, and that my Government is not here.
If you look at the history of my country, it was described as an English historian as a history of immigrants – rather shocking.
Anne Neville married Edward of Lancaster, the only English king to be crowned King of France in France.
The PPE-DE Group supports this report.
Free movement and freedom of establishment in the European Union are one of the basic freedoms of its citizens.
The redistribution and proper deployment of manpower in quality jobs is a strategic tactic in achieving the objectives for 2010.
However, there is an urgent cultural need to maintain European diversity.
Congratulations, therefore, to the Committee on Culture and Education and to Mr Portas on this own initiative report.
Secondly, the promotion among immigrants of the learning of and maintenance of the ability to use their mother tongue, initially the European and then all the other languages, by their country of origin, in agreement of course with the host country.
Thirdly, the coordinated offer and controlled use by the Member States of the numerous programmes which you referred to and of funding mechanisms, under the supervision of the Commission. &#160;&#160; All the speeches seem to me to have been exceptionally stimulating.
Multilingualism is thus quite a complicated issue from a practical point of view as well. &#160;&#160; .
I would like to say only that we have a sufficient number of good examples demonstrating how this issue can be developed positively.
We also have a group of countries where only around 30% of the population can communicate in a foreign language.
There are, however, also countries among the EU-25 where pupils learn more than two foreign languages, that is, 1 + more than 2, and other countries where they learn one foreign language or less.
It is a challenge for the Member States to achieve much more in this area, because there are also implications for employment, mobility, personal and mental development and, naturally, for tolerance, as well as the ability to understand different cultures and live in a multicultural environment.
One object of this report is that the circus should be recognised, as a matter of course, as part of European culture.
The Commission should introduce mechanisms for the cooperation of the Member States in order to guarantee and promote an adequate education for the children of travelling communities – and by that I mean not just circus children, but all travelling communities – regardless of the Member State in which they happen to be.
It would be very much to be desired that the Council should prepare a new resolution guaranteeing high-quality school education and vocational training for children, young people and adults in travelling communities and recognising and supporting the vocational training offered by circus schools.
The third problem has to do with what are termed temporary structures.
For example, in the various countries of the European Union, different standards apply as regards such things as safety and the materials from which tents are made.
The Commission needs to carry out an analysis of the current visa and work permit issuing systems, and use that as the basis for drawing up a European regulation in this area, which would take into account the difficulties currently involved in getting visas or work permits issued.
Nevertheless, we do take the view that animals are a part of the traditional circus and that it must be possible to adopt directives that enable circuses to keep them.
It follows that what we have set down in this report is perfectly reasonable.
However, already at this stage I would like to make some comments on some of the main elements.
These children should be provided as much as possible with flexible learning settings.
The Commission proposes to launch a study in 2006 in order to update the 1996 report on the steps taken by Member States to follow up the resolution of Council from 1989 – 16&#160;years ago – on school provisions for children of occupational travellers.
The current Socrates and Leonardo programmes already provide support to projects dealing with travelling children and families.
I know that Mrs Pack, who is also rapporteur for the very important new lifelong learning programme, is fully aware of the possibilities offered by these programmes.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Figel’ for the excellent way in which he responded to the questions that are included in Mrs Pack’s report.
Charlie Chaplin once said ‘I remain just one thing, and one thing only, and that's a clown.
Although the circus has evolved with time, it is deeply rooted in our European culture.
Something else has, though, and that is the recognition – also the subject of Mrs Pack’s report – of this cultural heritage, of which it in fact gets very little.
Those are all reasons why this European circus culture concerns us all.
In this framework, the rapporteur is right in pointing out the significance of good schooling for children in travelling communities.
The rapporteur claims that ‘the circus is there for young and old, for children of all ages’ and I would like to follow that up with something with which Pipo the Clown, who was a famous Dutch clown, always used to end his television shows: ‘Goodbye birds, goodbye flowers, goodbye children’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is entirely appropriate that we should be debating the circus in this House, considering that the European Parliament is the biggest travelling circus in the world, although I fear that many of my constituents in the English East Midlands may wonder if we do not have more important issues to address.
I have been approached by members of the public who worry about the use of animals in circuses and the possibility of cruel or harmful treatment.
However, I believe that the idea of banning animals from circuses goes too far.
However, English fox hunting – like the circus – is a vital part of English cultural heritage and especially so in the East Midlands, which I represent.
I would oppose any move to ban animals from circuses and I oppose the unjust and counterproductive ban on fox hunting recently introduced in my own country. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the circus is magic for children.
The circus is a home for many families and a school for their children.
Mrs Pack’s excellent report respects the magic and she well knows that magic should not be regulated.
Distance learning and e-learning can be part of the solution, but circus children should also meet other children coming from the so-called real life.
As a former member of the Hungarian Parliament I tabled an amendment to incorporate into our penal code a punishment for the torture of animals.
So I respect the wording about animals, but nevertheless, I do not support a total ban on animal attractions in our circus and I think Mrs Pack has a wise approach to this issue.
I totally agree with Mrs Pack that work permits should be provided for circus workers, but I also think, as Mr Figel’ rightly pointed out, that work permits should also be provided for all working people in this European Union, even those coming from new member countries and even countries like in Germany. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I shall stand in for Mr Bono.
When all countries eventually grasp that and their practices actually reflect it, the circus may well have a better chance of survival, for we have now reached the point at which that is something we need to campaign for.
It is not acceptable that a circus should, as it moves from one place to another or from one country to another, have to, again and again, get to grips with different administrative regulations and cope with the expense associated with them, which puts even more strain on a budget that is already overstretched.
I think we also have to have a new debate on the granting of visas.
We also have to think through the issues around the education and training of children and come to common solutions.
It is interesting how many topics converge on the concept of the circus and European culture, or work together around the same topic.
Naturally, the temptation to confuse professions or arenas is frequent, but a really good, high-quality circus deserves recognition, and that is mainly what this report is about.
It is also about a specific responsibility for addressing topics that include not only culture, but also education, mobility and economics, since we are dealing with the entertainment industry.
Poverty must be eradicated in the new Europe, going beyond strategies enabling it to become the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world.
It is true that work integrates an individual into a group, but that is not enough to make somebody a citizen, and experience has shown this.
The demand of the Fourth World committee, the oldest intergroup in the European Parliament, comes at just the right time to strengthen the social inclusion strategy, to create real conditions in which people living in poverty can participate and, finally, to assess the true impact of our European policies on the lives of the poorest families in the Member States, which is absolutely crucial.
The fact that a person is living in poverty does not mean that others must decide what is best for them on their behalf.
For example, why take children away from their families for socio-economic reasons relating to extreme poverty?
They feel the same joys, the same aspirations, the same fears and the same doubts, but in much more difficult circumstances.
The report was then voted for unanimously, and I would like to thank my colleagues for their cooperation.
There is one point to make, though, since my colleagues from the Communist Group propose, by means of Amendment 7, removing access to primary health care by poor women.
It is true that access to public health is an essential element in the quest for a decent common life for everybody.
And why refuse them the right to gynaeco-obstetrical health?
The poverty and social exclusion affecting women are enormously important issues.
The feminisation of poverty is an ongoing trend in European societies, and indeed your report highlights this fact.
The majority of those suffering unemployment or long-term unemployment are women, and women are far more likely than men to work part-time.
There is no getting away from the fact that women are still subjected to violence, both in public and in private.
Furthermore, around 500&#160;000&#160;women in Europe each year are trafficked for sexual exploitation.
Both of these problems are frequently a consequence of the poverty in which these women are forced to live.
Your report reaffirms that the employment of women is still the key to their economic independence, and one of the main means of overcoming the poverty trap and social exclusion.
EU measures in the field of employment are a key tool for achieving equality between women and men, and it is important to adopt an integrated approach in order to increase employment levels and to make it easier for women to join the workforce.
This approach must be tailored to women’s needs, and protect the interests of certain groups of women that are most at risk of social exclusion, such as single mothers, migrant women, women from ethnic minorities, women suffering ill health and older women.
One of the main reasons for this was the economic growth experienced by Europe during this period, even though this growth was relatively slow.
As a general rule, women are more likely to be unemployed, and the jobs they do have are frequently worse paid, less permanent and less advantageous in terms of social security.
At the same time, women continue to be largely responsible for the care of children and other dependents.
The goals set using the open method of coordination for the fight against social exclusion highlight how important it is for the Member States to consider gender equality when developing, implementing and monitoring the national action plans in the field of social inclusion.
The national action plans are key components of the European method, and are reviewed every two years.
In theory, all Member States are obliged to consider gender equality in all fields, or in other words to apply gender mainstreaming to all national implementing measures.
In conclusion, I should like to stress three priorities for the future.
Firstly, equality between women and men must become a priority goal for social security systems, with the aim of boosting the social rights of minority workers.
Secondly, we must promote policies aimed at increasing the availability of high-quality care for children and other dependents of any age, so that men and women do in fact have a choice when it comes to work-life balance.
Finally, the gender equality dimension must be strengthened in policies and measures aimed at combating poverty and social exclusion, in order to prevent the feminisation of poverty.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw your attention to an issue that is proof of how important a role each one of us has to play, and of how legislation alone sometimes achieves very little.
EU legislation aimed at preventing a gender pay gap has been in place for 30&#160;years, but the difference in pay between men and women currently stands at 16-33%, depending on the Member State.
As I see it, it is quite clear that what is now needed is an integrated and consistent approach. &#160;&#160; . – Commissioner, Mr President, the latest data published by the Commission shows that in seventeen of the twenty-five Member States the risk of poverty is higher for women than for men.
The number is only seventeen because some countries did not submit their data.
The statistics have long shown that two groups face an exceptional risk: first – single parents, 85% of whom are women, which shows that the risk of poverty is clearly gender-specific; secondly – women in the labour market, who are in a disadvantageous position mainly due to motherhood and differences in remuneration associated with it, which are also reflected in the size of their pensions.
Two-thirds of people of retirement age are women over 65 and yet, according to the European Economic and Social Committee, their average income is only 53% of the income of men of retirement age.
According to the 2005 UN report, the number of children dying every month due to poverty is equivalent to three times the number of victims of the tsunami that hit South East Asia in December&#160;2004.
The 2.5&#160;billion people living on less than USD&#160;2 per day account for 40% of the world’s population, but only 5% of the world’s income.
Microfinancing instruments, such as microcredit, have proved effective in combating poverty, and it is women who have derived most benefit from microcredit and have managed to improve their families’ economic situation.
These women are unemployed, or on low incomes, and do not have access to conventional financial institutions.
This is why the Socialist Group in Parliament has tabled an amendment to this report, with the intention of setting up, by legislative means, a guaranteed minimum income – along the lines of what already exists in my country, Portugal – as a way of effectively combating poverty, and in particular poverty among women.
In the majority of the Member States, social security systems do not take sufficient account of the specific conditions of women.
For this reason, this Parliament must make a clear appeal to the Member States to establish and guarantee a basic income as a fundamental instrument in the fight against poverty — which, I would insist, affects women mostly — within the context of an overall policy of promoting social and economic integration.
Furthermore — and we have presented this in an amendment — I would like to insist once again on the need to replace the expression ‘domestic violence’ with ‘gender violence’, since it is a form of violence which should not be characterised by the place in which it takes place, but rather by the way our society distributes roles amongst men and women, which often leads many men to believe that they are superior and that women are their possessions, which regrettably leads to violence.
In this regard, the amendments that we have presented relate to a structural dialogue which is often established in the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we in Sweden’s Left Party believe that women should have equal and fair access to all health care and medical treatment.
We believe in equal access to all such care and treatment.
Poverty obviously affects people’s whole life situation and has bearing upon education, health, housing and social exclusion, but I particularly wish to emphasise the significance of women’s ability to provide for themselves.
Moreover, this discrimination follows women throughout their lives, right up to retirement age with pensions systems that also discriminate against women.
Avaricious capitalism is one of the main causes of poverty, as it results in the rich becoming richer whilst the poor are reduced to indigence.
Despite its enormous potential, my country is the poorest Member State of the European Union, according to Eurostat.
It also has the highest level of unemployment, and this is due both to the corruption of the governing post Communist-liberal coalition and to the consequences of adjusting the economy to meet the conditions for accession.
What is needed is an economic order based on solidarity whose purpose is to promote the interests of human beings, that is of ordinary men and women.
It comes at a very appropriate time, as we are entering discussions on the reform of the European social model and on engendering greater support for the Lisbon Strategy.
The figures and statistics show us that in the Member States of the European Union poverty has more impact on women than on any other section of society.
It is the protection of the fundamental human right to a decent life and to freedom. &#160;&#160; I&#160;would like to thank Mrs Záborská for her report on the current situation in the European Union regarding the relationship between women and poverty.
Perhaps, contrary to expectations – I will not blame this time, gentlemen – I could link poverty with our desire to fulfil the role that you can only silently envy us, the role of a mother.
Our situation is not due to an inability to keep pace with you at work, since many great and important men have risen in the world only thanks to the hard work of the self-effacing women around them.
Society stresses the gift of life that women provide; in some countries, the law does not even give them the choice to do otherwise.
On the one hand, globalisation and the advent of computer technologies have increased economic opportunities and independence for some women.
On the other hand, many women are being pushed towards the periphery of society and denied the benefits of this process due to low educational levels, social prejudice or greater age.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Member States must prepare measures to ensure that women living in poverty are provided with equal access to public health systems – mainly primary healthcare, including the protection of mothers with children, as well as gynaecological care – education and work experience.
The time has come when we cannot remain passive in a world where women and children die of hunger, remain illiterate and are unable to build a decent life for their closest family members.
We must protect life at each and every moment, and make the world a better place for all, without prejudice.
I therefore urge the Commission, along with all of us, to adopt a responsible attitude to the misery afflicting millions of poor people, be it the poor of the developing world or of our cities, and thus to create opportunities for a decent life, in the spirit of solidarity and European values. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, over 68 million people in the European Union – that is, 15% of its population – are at risk of poverty.
The situation is even worse in countries outside the EU of 25.
National plans of action must include specific measures to alleviate poverty and the Commission must monitor the way in which they are implemented.
The European Union’s development policy must do more to address poverty reduction, while, at the same time, international development policy must, as a matter of urgency, be analysed to ascertain to what extent groups at risk are either being helped or further marginalised.
The World Bank, the G-8, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Trade Organisation must show their hands and set out the specific effects that their policies have had on women and poverty in the past and what the effect of them is now.
It is not enough to note that the poverty and social exclusion in which more than 72&#160;million people live in the EU is a violation of human rights and mainly affects women.
What is needed is a radical shake-up of the economic and social policies exacerbating unemployment, poverty and social exclusion and increasing inequality in the distribution of wealth.
Additionally, an economic and social development strategy must be developed whereby we put a stop to the privatisation of public services and social security, and whereby people receive an income providing social welfare and access to public health systems, including, of course, healthcare and all of the care that women need.
This is the only way in which people can have high-quality jobs with rights and decent wages, and in which women can enjoy all of the human rights to which they are entitled. &#160;&#160; Mr President, most of us agree that the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality does yeoman work – well, at least in my view, as much as other committee.
I find the hypocrisy of the European Parliament on this subject, like so many, many others, sadly predictable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report states that it is essential to create the new Europe on the basis of the creative cooperation of cultures.
The question is, do the women here have the balls to carry out the job? &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, I should like to express my dissatisfaction at the fact that a women’s debate is not only the last item on the agenda, but is also – once again – being dropped.
As a progressive woman, I am therefore very disappointed with the end product, which is mainly descriptive and not action-based.
I fully support the section about setting up an active group within the EU in which the participation of groups of the poorest women will be actively promoted and supported.
After all, they are the experts who have a good understanding of the ideas about how the most pressing needs in poverty and women could be alleviated. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we live in strange times.
On the one hand there is high unemployment, and on the other the economic pressure to have two wage packets coming into each household.
Fewer behavioural problems arise in families of this kind.
A country that helps families living off a single wage, by providing tax relief or benefits for example, will need to spend less on nurseries, young offenders’ centres, prisons, old people’s homes and similar institutions.
There is no denying that women are more at risk of poverty, and that this means that there can be no talk of equal opportunities in a society that quite clearly provides one sex with fewer opportunities.
In spite of all our achievements in the field of equal opportunities policies, and the progress we have made, we therefore still have a long way to go.
Another point that has emerged quite clearly is that poverty is a particular threat to women in certain social situations, although this threat is of course ever-present for women during their entire life.
Progress of this kind requires very considerable effort at all levels, in particular at Member State level.
Comments were also made during the debate regarding the importance of a minimum income, and I should merely like to note that we intend to present a communication on this issue by the end of the year.
I believe that this could mark the beginning of a fundamental and in-depth debate on the concept of a minimum income, and on the way in which individual Member States deal with this matter.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you again for the report that has been tabled.
I believe that I understand the basic principles involved, since they have already been suggested during certain debates in this Chamber, namely that a great deal of work carried out is informal, and disregarded in terms of the official economy and gross domestic product, even though this work is no less real.
This is how I understand the part of the report that talks about the economics of life, and I merely wanted to make sure that this was in fact what was meant, since it would obviously be interesting to hold a structured debate on this issue.
I should therefore like to thank you once again, ladies and gentlemen, for the report that has been tabled.
Its conclusions are unquestionably inspiring, and will play a role in the European Union’s progress towards the eradication of poverty and the achievement of equal opportunities. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The debate will take place tomorrow, Thursday 13&#160;October, at 11&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; Poverty is a grave phenomenon, which affects women significantly more.
Exchange of best practices of Member States would be of great use in social protection systems, in eliminating and preventing violence against women.
We should try harder to include social partners at national, regional and local level into policy development and implementation, especially in the area of education, employment and pensions. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I think the proposals on the poverty of women are important, and would like to thank the rapporteur and her Committee.
The report demonstrates that the non-centralised discussions of European politics provide an opportunity to analyse our common problems relating to the further enlargement of the EU.
Poverty of women can be explained by social and societal dynamics that affect other sections of society, too.
The female face of poverty is very marked in these vulnerable sections of society.
The cultural traditions of immigrants and ‘indigenous’ Roma people create particular community-related obstacles in the way of creating long-term financial security and autonomy for women.
The groups of women most at risk of falling into poverty are lone parents and (single) older women.
The right to human dignity is a fundamental human right.
Poverty denies people the possibility of choosing how they live their lives.
Our mission is to restore freedom of self-determination to women, who comprise the majority of the world’s population.
Therefore this Parliament fully agrees that Europe -along with an adequate assistance strategy- should join UN efforts and contribute to ease the difficulties of those in need.
I ask the Commission to make sure that complex development projects aimed at improving the quality of life of disadvantaged communities -especially that of the Roma minority- will be embedded in the new cohesion policy of 2007-13 as requested by the EP-Roma Forum on 31st January, suggesting to join forces and share tasks with the 'Roma Decade Programme' launched on 2nd February by the World Bank, the Open Society Foundation and 8 European national governments. &#160;&#160; I declare the sitting closed.
