Commission legislative programme and work programme for 2008 (debate) The next item is the debate on the Commission Legislative and Work Programme for 2008.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, the next 12 months will be of vital importance to Europe for our future effectiveness, for our place in the world, for the confidence of our citizens in our ability to meet their expectations.
The agreement on the Treaty of Lisbon was very welcome, but so too was the manner in which it was reached.
At the same time, our economic agenda has brought results in terms of growth and jobs, helping to offset the risks of added turbulence this year.
We are tackling the big issues: from energy to migration, from employment to development aid, namely in Africa, and in just a few weeks we have an opportunity to underline our global leadership on the fight against climate change in Bali.
The twin-track strategy proposed by the Commission in 2006 has paid off, focusing on concrete results for citizens, and at the same time investing in a solution for the institutional settlement.
In addition, of course we must respect and promote the process of ratification of the Treaty and show citizens what the European Union can offer in the run-up to the European parliamentary elections of 2009.
Alongside this, we will adopt a vision on how to promote opportunities, access and solidarity in the Europe of the 21st century, to be backed up next year with a full communication on a modernised social agenda.
I very much look forward to the reactions of the European Parliament and the Council to the internal market review and the social vision.
It sets out our main initiatives and builds on our commitment to provide added value to Europe's citizens.
As for 2007, the work programme for 2008 concentrates on a limited number of new policy initiatives, including 26 strategic initiatives grouped together in 12 packages, which the Commission commits to deliver during the year, and 61 priority initiatives, grouped together in 49 packages, to be delivered over a 12-month to 18-month period.
For several of the areas mentioned in your report, concrete initiatives are either already adopted or planned to be adopted still in 2007.
On the bulk of our agenda there is a large degree of agreement between the Commission and Parliament on the need to act and on the way forward.
We believe that a common understanding of priorities offers the springboard for 'going local', adapting communication to best fit different needs in different parts of the Union.
We also believe that in this communication area partnership is crucial if we really want to connect Europe to its citizens.
The year 2008 is indeed a crucial year for Europe.
Together the European Commission and the European Parliament can build on our excellent work together in 2007, can make the difference and can make, I am sure, 2008 a great year for Europe. (Applause) Commission President, I would also like to extend a very warm welcome to the many members of the Commission who are present for this debate today.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I start by saying to you, Commission President, that having heard your minatory words last year about the attendance of Members of this House, there are more Members than Commissioners in the Chamber today, and I trust that you have noted that fact with gratification.
On behalf of the PPE-DE Group, may I also voice some words of encouragement: we encourage you, during the coming year - the crucial year for the ratification of the new Treaty - to utilise your Commission's most important competence, namely the right to bring forward legislative proposals for Europe, in a way which ensures that you address the issues of serious concern to citizens effectively and utilise the opportunities at your disposal to narrow the gap between citizens and the European Union.
We support your general approach as set forth in your programme, as well as the priorities you have chosen, from growth and jobs - whose success is crucial to underpin social cohesion in Europe - to many other detailed aspects, up to and including migration and research.
You intend to bring forward a total of 79 legislative initiatives and around the same number of non-legislative actions.
You have the opportunity - and I am confident that this Treaty will come into force - to incorporate this Treaty into your programme already at this stage.
A new debate on subsidiarity is starting in Europe, and the main partner for that debate is you, Mr President, and your Commission.
You now have an opportunity, in the spirit of the new Treaty, to create a new culture of subsidiarity.
That is the opportunity - the great opportunity - for your Commission to achieve more consensus among the population at large, and it is an opportunity which we in the PPE-DE Group would expressly encourage you to seize with both hands. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commission President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, may I also welcome you very warmly on behalf of my Group.
The first point is communication.
I am very pleased with the approach to the issue of communication - which also lies in the hands of Madam Vice-President - and the proposals she has put forward, which envisage a joint approach with Parliament.
We need to do more here.
I hope, Madam Vice-President, that you will be able to say a few words at the end of this debate about what you are planning in specific terms, for it is our common goal, and that is a message which we must convey in 2008 in particular.
Unfortunately, Mr President, the document you have presented to us does not contain many answers to these questions.
There are many areas involved here, and I would like to cite just two of them.
Unemployment, social exclusion and anti-social elements are still present in our society and are being exploited by the extreme right in their campaign against Europe.
That is our primary goal and it should be the primary goal of this programme as well.
We think that 2008 should be a great year for social Europe.
My plea to you, Commission President, is this: please, take the lead in achieving this social Europe! (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, this is a political programme which suits a year in which the pace of integration is going to quicken dramatically with the completion of the Reform Treaty process and the expansion of the Schengen and the euro zones.
To explain and justify the Treaty to national parliaments and to public opinion, we ought to put greater stress on the social and cultural dimension of the single market, such as migration policy, as well as on the fight to combat climate change.
The first is energy policy: 2007 has been a big year.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, President of the Commission, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, along with my fellow Members I listened closely to what Mr Barroso said.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, with your permission, I would like to start my speech in Irish. (GA) I approve of the Commission's projected legislative and work programme.
The Commission is aiming above all to promote job creation and development in Europe; to make the EU come to grips with the problem of climate change; to bring about a common policy on migration; to give pride of place to EU citizens; and to ensure that the EU acts as a force for good all over the world.
In particular, the continuing crisis around the world - particularly in the developing world with regard to the AIDS, HIV and other areas - requires us to be more imaginative and innovative in how best we can deal with these areas.
Many of us have grave concerns with regard to proposals coming forward from the Commission concerning corporation tax, the common consolidated base for corporation tax and, in particular, the relentless desire of certain Commissioners to drive forward the proposal which we - I and others in this House - believe the Commission does not have the legislative or legal basis to move forward on.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (DA) Mr President, there is an election in Denmark today.
This could connect the national parliaments with the EU and give citizens the opportunity to be involved before they receive a decree from Brussels, which has also promised to comply with the recommendations of the national parliaments, yet very few come.
The Commission is putting pressure on European citizens with what I see as an extremely debatable response to the demographic challenges of another mass influx of workers from non-European countries, for which there is not the slightest democratic support or agreement from our own European citizens.
Let me be very clear about this: a new wave of immigration, even a legal one, with everything that accompanies a continuing migration and the so-called reunification of families, will make the existing and already very serious integration problems even worse, to say nothing of the brain drain that we are apparently shamelessly allowing to the detriment of the countries of origin.
This is at a time - and I want to emphasise this - when there are already millions and millions of former immigrants of non-European origin in Europe, some already third or even fourth generation, who are still unemployed and have barely educated themselves to the point where they can be integrated, let alone assimilated: a proletariat on social security.
It is remarkable that the Commission has also taken it upon itself to get involved in the education policy of the Member States.
The Commission claims to put its own European citizens first, but in reality it frequently behaves like an emperor or keizer-koster; often ready with the lecturing finger and wagging head of a frustrated teacher.
For this reason it also does not surprise me that this so-called Reform Treaty is, apart from a few cosmetic alterations, identical to the former Constitution and is therefore only a disguised version of this totally illegible, dark and veiled document that renders the normal functioning of citizen-controlled democracy out of the question. (DE) Mr President, o sonho europeo, the European dream, der Europäische Traum!
The President of the European Court of Auditors offered you a very clear starting point yesterday evening.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, I should like to thank all the groups for their very interesting and challenging comments.
In all our initiatives we are now looking at the need for a specific legislative initiative - the impact assessment and the quality of our proposals - and we try to do it that way.
Let me just highlight that, out of the 26 strategic initiatives I have announced, only 8 are of a legislative nature; out of 61 priority initiatives, only 28 are of a legislative nature; out of 87, only 36 are of a legislative nature in general.
On top of this, we will withdraw 30 pieces of legislation.
Sometimes, in some of our Member States, people say that, because of subsidiarity, the Commission or the European Parliament should not come forward with this kind of programme because this goes against subsidiarity.
In fact, if what they do not want is the European Union to act when European action is needed, then I do not agree that this is indeed in favour of subsidiarity.
To give you a recent example: in March the European Council adopted, as you know, some very important ideas for energy and the environment, namely protection against climate change.
However, I have sometimes heard some Member States state that the Commission should not insist on unbundling, because this is against the principle of subsidiarity.
It is, in fact, resistance to an important European movement that is in favour of creating a real internal market for energy and of having a very strong policy against climate change.
For instance, the Länder in Germany, the regions in most of our Member States, are critically important, and my college and I have been all over Europe in the national parliaments, sometimes in the different regions, explaining.
We have mentioned the social dimension.
This takes place in the context of the overall Lisbon strategy for growth and jobs.
Mr Duff, as regards the need to ratify the Treaty, as you understand, I fully share that priority, and I think, precisely, that the social and cultural dimension of Europe should be highlighted.
So I think that President Sarkozy's initiative should be seen as part of the promotion of such debate and reflection.
That is why we think that this group, in the event of approval by the European Council, should not engage in a new institutional debate.
I do not think it would be wise to do this, so I will ask the 'Wise Men' (and women, hopefully!) to be wise enough not to open new institutional debates, but rather to concentrate on a vision for Europe in 20 or 30 years' time.
We have the European Parliament, we have the Commission, we have the European Council and, in the end, the institutions are responsible - not wise men or, as we would prefer maybe to say, 'the bright kids' - and what they could bring as a stimulus to our debate.
We also believe that the timing of the report of such a group should be given careful consideration; the end of 2009 seems appropriate. (FR) Mr Jonckheer, thank you for your comments, especially as regards the Community method and the Greens' support for it.
You said that 2007 has been an important year for the 'great cause', namely the challenge of climate change, and we in the Commission and in the European Union are proud to have contributed to this effort.
In any event, we are aware that we need to motivate our other partners in this direction.
Turning to the issue of migration you say that the European Union should be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
In fact, I think that the European Union has long merited a Nobel Peace Prize, for when it comes to the experience of peace in the world there are few regions better qualified than the European Community, now the European Union.
Now let us be clear: some Member States are against it.
You mentioned Kofi Annan.
If there is one area that is poorly regulated on a global scale it is migration.
I support your proposal that we in the European Union -precisely because we are a special case when it comes to integration and freedom of movement - should double our efforts to promote certain principles because Europe and the wider world are currently facing real threats in the form of xenophobia, populist movements and negative forces from the past that are opposed to those principles that we uphold, namely humanism and hospitality.
We intend to take the relevant decisions in this area in December.
The important thing is to work out how to keep our doors open without being naïve, how to maintain and even extend the opening-up of the global markets while at the same time defending our own interests, and this includes taking account of our concerns for the employment sector.
But I agree with you that it is clear that unanimity is in the Reform Treaty as the rule for any legislation on these issues of taxation.
So I believe that your concerns are well taken on board.
What I want to say is that we could see here a degree of consensus about Europe.
Action by individual Member States can only go so far but it becomes more and more obvious that the European dimension is indispensable.
Of course we have to see what is the appropriate level of using the European dimension - the subsidiarity issue that was raised by some of you - but I think that we can agree that even the biggest Member States alone cannot face all those challenges and that we need some level of European commitment.
I think that, 50 years on, the genius of the founding fathers in creating our unique mix of institutions is as strong as ever.
The Commission must keep its active role in building a genuine single market for financial services.
Transatlantic Market initiatives started a very important process which is especially critical to the capital markets.
Even though taxation might seem a bit difficult, and we all know that it is still beyond unanimity, we must be very courageous in putting forward action in this area.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, President of the Commission, I believe that the people of Europe have very high expectations when it comes to the social dimension of European integration and that the strengthening of this social pillar is the weak link, if not to say the missing link, in the Commission's strategy.
Similarly, in the area of taxation, we cannot but note that for want of an initiative on a genuine corporate tax base - which is something that Parliament has been advocating and which the Commissioner concerned was working on - we are still not moving towards a more equitable single market in this particular respect.
Finally, we are impatiently waiting for two initiatives that you announced.
After so many White Papers, Green Papers, announcements, disputes before the Court of Justice and a number of clear and repeated demands from the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee, and even though a consensus was reached between the Member States in the Council on including a new article in the Lisbon Treaty to provide a clear basis for a legislative initiative - in codecision with Parliament - on public services, which are services of general interest, there is still no concrete proposal forthcoming.
Mr President, you should present an initiative to Parliament on this issue.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I welcome many aspects of the Commission programme.
In particular, I am delighted to see the Commission's commitment to bring forward a specific horizontal directive under Article 13 to combat discrimination in access to goods and services, although perhaps I would have preferred to see specific directives in all sectors.
I would also like to see an amendment to the 2000 Biological Agents Directive to protect health workers from contracting HIV and hepatitis C from needle stick injuries.
I would also say, under health and safety legislation, that I am pleased that you are committed to having impact assessments before any new legislation is brought forward.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I am delighted at the prominence given to energy policy in the Commission's plans.
Political measures aimed at energy solidarity in a crisis are required.
If you wanted to put the citizens first, you would respect their opinions.
If we were to debate the legislative programme and annual political strategy right at the start of the year, drawing them together, then the budget could be shaped to our goals, and not the goals to the budget.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that the Commission not only serves growth and job creation through many programmes but also uses taxpayers' money responsibly and demands similar responsibility from the Member States.
The Commission can also count on the strong support and cooperation of Parliament in this area.
Thank you for your attention. (PL) Mr President, I am glad that matters relating to growth and employment head the list of the European Commission's priorities for 2008.
We must move away from a paternalistic social policy that perpetuates inactivity towards a social policy that rewards activity on the labour market.
The common currency has an important role to play in the creation of economic competition.
We trust that the European Commission will present us with specific proposals regarding support for employment and growth, so as to ensure a high and constantly rising standard of living in a united Europe. (DE) Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the PPE-DE Group is concerned, the objectives for the coming year in the field of the internal market and consumer protection are very clear.
Firstly, we want to see the completion of the internal market through the removal of remaining barriers and obstacles.
That is why, Mr Kyprianou, we welcome your proposal for a health services directive, based on Article 95, which would adopt a very broad-brush approach to the health sector.
Secondly, we want to see comparable standards of consumer protection being established in all Member States of the European Union and, Mrs Kuneva, we greatly welcome your review of all the relevant EU legislation in this area.
Thirdly, we want to help achieve a situation in which we finally have clearer, simpler and therefore fewer rules in the European Union.
Sustainable Europe on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, thank you to the Commission.
The Commission's policy is Lisbon.
The Parliament's policy is Lisbon, but Lisbon is not happening.
We want to know why not, we want to see progress and we want to see that monitoring and enforcement.
We want progress both in terms of what we can do through legislative restriction on emissions and so on, but also what we can do to encourage individuals.
We want to see that mental health proposal which has been promised and has not yet appeared.
Let us have a bit of support from the Commission on progress on that as they see the symbol that we are going to erect in the courtyard of this Parliament tomorrow.
There is a certain amount of scepticism in Washington and elsewhere about how serious the European Union is about climate change.
It would be a real shame at a time when we are seeing changes in Washington, on both sides, Republican and Democrat, where we are seeing changes in Australia and a willingness to begin dialogue in China and India, if we were to stumble on our reform package on climate change.
I hope this Parliament will be involved in that debate, not just watching on the sidelines, and we look forward to seeing how we can be involved.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I welcome very much the emphasis given in the 2008 work programme to the importance of a sustainable European energy policy.
President Barroso spoke out about the greening of the transport sector and, of course, that is vital.
However, to my mind, the really shocking statistic is that in Europe we use 40% of our energy in buildings - in heating, cooling and lighting - even though we have the technology to design and engineer our buildings to have virtually no energy requirements at all.
Secondly and most importantly, we need to get rid of the 1 000 m2 threshold and bring all buildings with a heating or cooling requirement within the scope of the Directive.
We have to look at the energy wasted in existing buildings and not just at new buildings, because 75% of the buildings which exist today will still be standing in 2050.
MEPs have been discussing the Commission's action plan on energy efficiency in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, and it seems to me that there is the political will in Parliament for a radical revision of the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive.
The European Commission also emphasises health and proposes numerous legislative and non-legislative packages.
But I am bound to say that in my Member State it may cause some confusion since a non-legislative action described as an act is possibly something of an oxymoron in UK terms.
But we do have this habit at European level of being strong on rhetoric and weak on actions in support of small business. (DE) Mr President, the focus on a sustainable Europe arises, among other things, from our priority to protect the climate.
It has also been made very clear that these arguments are invariably advanced whenever a new rule or law is unwelcome.
However, in terms of effective climate protection, it is clear that if we had gone ahead 10 years ago and adopted rules to cut CO2 emissions from vehicles, the European Union would now be in a better position and we would not be under the pressure we are now feeling to bring about the effective climate protection that is required.
As we know from many debates, this is also one of the main points of criticism of our work and of legislation in this field. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, the cohesion and regional policies function on the basis of the regulations with which we established a seven-year framework in 2006.
A total of EUR 350 billion was earmarked for growth and employment, with priority for the Lisbon objectives, and there was a specific goal in mind.
The report must lay the foundations for long-term adjustments to the cohesion policy and for our plans regarding the regions and cities.
In this context, I would like to address Commissioners Hübner and Potočnik.
The PPE-DE Group launched the debate on the medium-term approach with a parliamentary hearing last week, quite rightly to look at the question in more depth and to bring the citizens and regions into focus in the coming years.
As far as the Commission is concerned, much more support is required. (DE) Mr President, very briefly, I would like to list what I regard as the most important points arising from this work programme.
The 2003 CAP reform should be reviewed and simplified, we all agree on that, and to that extent I hope, as rapporteur, that the important contributions that we in Parliament make to this own-initiative report will be taken into account in the ensuing legislative proposal.
This Health Check must help us find the right path towards a common agricultural policy for the post-2013 period.
Other key issues for 2008 such as the Milk Package, the 2008-2009 Budget Review, the Action Plan on EU Animal Health Strategy and the Review of Support for Less Favoured Areas will certainly make sure that there is no scope for any boredom in Parliament! (DE) Mr President, the issue of transport and mobility is naturally also viewed as a priority in the programme for 2008.
Of course, we have very clear challenges here.
That would mean that in Europe, passenger rights would be covered in all modes of transport: air travel, rail and road.
A swift decision must and could be reached by taking account of those countries where cofinancing is already envisaged and where the projects have got off to a good start on a technical level. (ES) Mr President, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, in relation to the Commission's common fisheries policy proposals we again face a number of issues the Commission has not followed up as rapidly as it should have.
An integrated approach to migration on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although we are discussing the programme for 2008, I would like to start by pointing out that we have made major progress in the field of home affairs policy in recent months, and I would like to pay tribute to Commissioner Frattini for that.
The key priority for all of us, on a practical basis, is to make major progress with SIS II.
In the PPE-DE Group, our main concern is that after the great success of the enlargement of the Schengen area, fatigue will now set in and many Member States will slip into a state of inertia.
We need SIS II as a major project for next year.
In the legislative sphere, I would like to touch upon the border security issue again in particular.
If a system for the transmission of air passenger records is established, we cannot have 27 individual rules, which we could bring in straight away; we really need a European proposal.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go along with a lot of what President Barroso has said, especially when he says that the Commission is being tough on illegal immigration but very generous and supportive on integration.
We can certainly agree to the directive on penalising employers who illegally employ non-Community migrant workers, but we find no trace in the programme of those legislative measures on legal migration previously announced by Vice-President Frattini.
The reference to a shared overall approach is fine, and one cannot fail to agree on the need to avoid having 27 different immigration policies, but we look forward to receiving some more tangible information about the European surveillance system announced in the programme.
We have had the proposals from Commissioner Frattini - and all credit to him - but we need great pressure to be put on Member States to respond to those proposals because the challenge of getting a comprehensive and well managed legal migration system for the EU should be up there with the challenge of climate change.
I wonder whether that is going to come unstuck in the same way that our experience with Gastarbeiter did many years ago.
It is now time to focus on the integration of all the citizens of the 27 countries and to set a common course and common challenges for Europe.
One of the points in the Commission's programme is to put the citizens first.
As Mr Barroso pointed out, we lack a common immigration policy.
After all, immigration is not simply a response to particular circumstances affecting the labour market or pensions.
This was in a detention centre which Ministers promised would be closed immediately, but which is still open, despite a report by an international NGO condemning it for torturing illegal immigrants.
Above all, of course, a multilateral policy is needed to integrate migrants into our societies.
Please eliminate these dangerous attitudes from your strategy documents.
There are undoubtedly criminal immigrants, just as there are English, German and Greek criminals, but the immigrants' only real crime is that they were born in poor or war-torn regions.
Putting the citizens first on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of budgetary control, the Commission Legislative and Work Programme for 2008 is a disappointment because key issues and problems relating to budgetary control simply do not feature in the programme.
We are at least as far from achieving this now as in all the years before, as we have known since yesterday evening.
Of the 200 items for codification announced for 2007, just 23 have actually been submitted to Parliament to date, and only six of the 43 announced new items have been tabled so far.
You really need to do better in 2008.
Perhaps the greatest gem of all, though, is the proposal for a directive to combat discrimination in all the Member States.
We need this directive in this Year of Equal Opportunities for All because it must show that discrimination is not just a social, moral and political error, but also a waste of human resources.
As far as I am concerned, the highlight of the 2008 work programme is the proposal for a directive on equality outside the workplace, that is, a general prohibition of discrimination.
However, the Commission must guarantee better compliance with the existing legislation because there is a discrepancy between the excellent anti-discrimination laws we already have and the Commission's inability to actually enforce them.
Intercultural dialogue has been highlighted as a priority.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the following issues.
I believe that now we really need a common European policy on minority rights and social inclusion - the recent events in Italy demonstrated this clearly.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a kind of irony in the Commission claiming that it wants to put the citizen at the centre of the European project in its 2008 legislative programme.
In this regard, the Lisbon Treaty is an insult to the people of our nations, because it is just a copy and paste job of the European Constitution that was overwhelmingly rejected and because it confirms the logic of the current Treaties that prohibit us from controlling the euro, from safeguarding our markets, from protecting our borders from illegal immigration and from defending ourselves in international trade negotiations.
In particular - and these remarks are intended especially for my French colleagues in all the parliamentary groups - this Lisbon Treaty does not change the dogmatic concept of competition without balances, without national interests, without frontiers and without any concern for democracy.
Firstly, we very much welcome the fact that the European Commission has included a proposal for a European Company Statute in its legislative programme for next year.
This is something which this House has wanted for a very long time, and so it is very welcome indeed.
What we find regrettable is that the Commission has, in effect, been forced into this course of action after we made use of the legal instrument of Article 192 and opted to present a legislative own-initiative report, despite the fact that the Commission has been aware of this problem for a very long time.
Indeed, it has been mentioned repeatedly in a whole series of company law programmes ever since the days of Commissioner Bolkestein.
With a view to the next legislative term, at least, we would also like to see the Commission giving some thought to achieving progress in relation to copyright and perhaps commissioning a Green Paper on this issue. (ES) Mr President, we are obviously extremely pleased that citizens are at the forefront of the European project, but I must point out that one of the EU's major problems is the general public's vast lack of knowledge of what the Union is.
Europe as a world partner on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, it is true that 2008 will be an important year, as the President of the Commission said, but it will be a year of transition prior to the end of this Commission's mandate.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, most EU citizens agree that the Union must play a larger role on the world stage.
The Council should play a larger role in this regard, but it is often paralysed or inefficient as a result of internal disagreements.
I think that the priority this coming year must be to conclude the negotiations with Ukraine: in this respect we hope - and Parliament will discuss this tomorrow afternoon - that a situation can be created in that country that will allow, over the coming years, for a new type of agreement, a form of association, under which Ukraine can continue the reform process with the new government towards further integration with the European Union.
I hope that the Commission will also present proposals on that issue next year.
Finally, there has been very little progress with Russia so what can we do to move things forward?
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to my regret I have to say that I am disappointed with the section of your legislative and work programme on Europe as a world player.
There is obviously also difficulty in clearly identifying Europe's fundamental problem when it comes to foreign policy.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the year 2008 will differ from the current year in that it will not bring a further enlargement of the Union.
The coming year will, however, provide an opportunity to develop economic and political relations between the Union and a number of important countries in Asia, Africa, Latin America and also for instance in the South Caucasus, as previous speakers have already mentioned.
We must keep two Union priorities in mind.
Secondly, exerting pressure on all our partners to ensure that the development of our bilateral relations in the areas of economics and politics is linked to respect for human rights.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, 'Europe as a world partner' is a very nice heading for the Commission programme, but what we are really talking about is the European Union, not Europe, and it is presumptuous to use this heading at all, for Europe is far greater than just the European Union.
Congo is a good example.
The EU's military intervention there has ensured that Joseph Kabila, an autocrat who is acceptable to the EU, is now in power, backed by elections, and his opponent has been forced into exile.
A brutal war has erupted in Eastern Congo, with some 350 000 people forced to flee their homes.
Use them where it is necessary to protect the health and safety of consumers in the European Union but do not use them as a protectionist measure.
With regard to Commissioner Mandelson, I wish him well in the WTO Doha Agreement and I hope that we can move agriculture forward with the US and the European Union to ensure we get a settlement, building on things like Euromed, which are very important to the European Union.
A debate has begun on the future of our Mediterranean policy - I do not know whether President Sarkozy will choose to broach this topic in his speech today - and the Commission should without doubt undertake a more detailed assessment of these policies.
It should also make proposals for the future, involving this House rather more than it has done in the past, given that tomorrow we are to discuss Parliament's report on the neighbourhood policy.
Furthermore, we would urge greater consistency between internal EU policies - such as agriculture, fisheries, trade and immigration - and our development cooperation policies with the poorest countries, especially in Africa.
We would honestly expect relations between the European Union and this major continent to feature more prominently on Europe's agenda, given that Latin America is so crucial to decisions on the environment as well as to other policies such as trade and energy.
I hope that in this way Parliament and the Commission can work well together and that the Commission will therefore keep us apprised of the situation in a regular and timely fashion, as indeed it should.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I should first like to express my thanks to all of you for your comments, whether detailed or general, whether critical or supportive of the Commission's proposal for the work programme for next year.
It ranges from comments on fisheries policy or fishing agreements with Tanzania to the peace process in the Middle East - the whole range of activities that we are engaged in.
I think we can say that the way this procedure has improved has also improved the quality of our proposal for a new legislative and work programme.
I hope that we can continue to make it even more political, and your comments have shown that we are here to discuss the political content and the overall balance.
This is a long-term goal, a long-term objective of the European Union, but we have to continue to put pressure on Member States to deliver.
Another area concerns social issues and the social agenda which, judging by their comments, is of concern especially to the PSE Group in Parliament.
Here, we also had some specific questions on services of general interest.
Next week, and as part of our review of the internal market, the Commission will adopt a communication outlining how we will deal with services of general interest.
I hope that Parliament will study our communication very seriously, together with its accompanying documents explaining how and when state aid rules apply to these services of general interest, and also how public procurement rules apply.
Just to repeat what is in our proposal: in the energy package are four different initiatives.
President Barroso explained very clearly how we address this issue.
On the principal position of the Commission on these issues, I would just refer you to what President Barroso said in the debate.
Therefore, you will find that these issues remain at the top of our agenda for next year.
We have a strategy paper on enlargement; we have a series of reports on the progress made in the European Neighbourhood Policy - since many of you mentioned that - and we also have a communication on concrete follow-up measures to the EU-Africa strategy.
Therefore, we will have ample opportunities to discuss the external issues during next year.
When the debate in the European Parliament and the concrete delivery become visible and the results become visible to the citizens, that is when we will also see our democratic legitimacy increased, and that is what we have to focus on.
We will also add a citizens' summary to our proposals for next year.
Before the end of this year we will present a new internet strategy, since some of you have asked for this.
At the beginning of next year we will also come with a new audiovisual strategy.
It is important that we focus together on a number of communication priorities, and you will see proposals for interinstitutional communication priorities in our work programme.
The dialogue between you, in the European Parliament, and the Commission does not stop today: we will continue working together in the positive spirit that has characterised this whole exercise and procedure and our shared ambition expressed in the work programme.
I also hope that your motion for a resolution will endorse it and we will provide an excellent basis for continued cooperation. (Applause) I thank colleagues for their contributions to the debate, the College of Commissioners for their presence and especially Mrs Wallström for her charm and her courage.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - Mr Nassauer's speech verged on equating the volume of legislation with the amount of bureaucracy.
European legislation that creates a single set of common rules for the common market - instead of 27 contradictory and divergent rules - makes life easier for businesses and cuts bureaucracy.
Legislation which protects public health or the environment may cost money in the short run but saves far more in the long run.
in writing. - (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I welcome the European Commission's work programme for 2008, which defines the future of the Union and the next steps in its development.
I feel it is important to emphasise that the document must contain not only principles but also specific recommendations, in the interests of essential action in European politics, especially in the area of social policy.
We cannot renounce the fundamental requirements of humanity and benevolence in our European migration policy.
It would be necessary to prepare a common European refugee policy in order to achieve all this.
in writing. - I welcome the Commission's presentation of its work programme for 2008.
I believe its approach to the challenges currently faced by the EU, such as the volatility in financial markets, combating climate change and ensuring energy security underlines that the EU can achieve together what no one Member State could achieve in isolation.
Only by providing leadership and deliver results in these areas can the EU be assured of its citizens continued confidence.
Such divisive initiatives only serve to create divisions between Member States and undermine citizens' confidence in the European project.
