The questions of workers' health and working conditions, the organisation of health, hygiene and safety services in the workplace and the list of occupational diseases came to the fore in the Community in 1989 with the publication of Framework Directive 89/391.
The adoption of this report will hopefully lead to greater attention being paid to the effective implementation of these directives and to working conditions, with a view to reducing the figure of over 4 million accidents at work per year and over 4 500 deaths and injuries leading to permanent incapacity across the EU.
The Commission must, as a matter of urgency, submit a more thorough report on the current situation regarding workers' safety and health in the workplace.
Furthermore, the International Labour Organisation conventions and other legislation in these areas must be implemented.
The Freitas report being put to the vote today concerns the outermost regions and, in particular, Réunion.
It takes account of the particular characteristics of the fisheries sector in the outermost regions, by ensuring compensation for additional costs incurred by the economic operators involved in fishing. 2.
The report proposes that the compensation scheme should become permanent, in view of the permanent difficulties faced by the fisheries sector in the outermost regions. 3.
It proposes an increase from EUR 15 to 17 million in financial resources, which will fund the compensation scheme every year during the period 2007-2013.
In other words, although the Commission's proposal was good to begin with, Parliament's proposals have managed to make substantial improvements, by meeting in full the need to compensate the additional costs involved in fishing in Madeira and the Azores, which will now have an annual overall budget of EUR 5 million for the purpose.
However, the natural barriers to trade that remain in these regions put companies located there at a distinct disadvantage compared to those deriving full benefit from access to the Community market.
It is these geographical and structural conditions peculiar to the outermost regions that justify the compensation we pay for the additional costs incurred in marketing fisheries products from the outermost regions for the market in continental Europe.
Accordingly, this should be a permanent scheme, with the possibility of a certain degree of flexibility, in view of the specific conditions in these regions and in order to make best use of the scheme.
The European Parliament has issued the following four requests, in particular.
Council Decision 2004/585/EC defines a general framework for the running of the RACs in order to ensure that they are dealt with in a consistent and balanced manner.
Our support for this proposal is based, however, on a vision of the RACs as an instrument for encouraging the decentralisation of the CFP, for ensuring that the fishermen and their representative bodies are involved in the decision-making process regarding the CFP - which we feel is not completely the case at the moment - and for guaranteeing that the interests of all Member States on the issue of fisheries are fairly represented. (SK) I voted for the report produced by Esther Herranz García because it sends an important message to people with disabilities, especially women who experience various difficulties in everyday life and cannot make full use of their rights.
We object in principle to the general trend whereby the institutions of the EU seek to achieve influence and competence within ever more areas. (NL) Mr President, in 2006, 31 000 illegal refugees found their way to the Canary Islands and tried to emigrate from there to the European mainland - six times more than did so the year before.
External border control falls within the Member States' remit, but the flows of refugees that are common today illustrate that these external borders have become too permeable.
Frontex's rapid intervention teams are desperately needed, certainly in light of the huge shortcomings of various Member States when it comes to protecting external borders.
Hence our vote against the report.
in writing. - (FR) The regulation submitted to us establishes a mechanism that is designed to provide a Member State that is faced with a massive influx of illegal immigrants with assistance, in the form of Rapid Border Intervention Teams, for a limited period of time.
This reserve, which consists of 250 to 500 border guards within the European Borders Agency (Frontex), will be made available to those Member States that need it in order to protect their external borders.
It is true that, although the control of the external borders is incumbent on the Member States and comes under the intergovernmental remit, the massive influx of illegal immigrants that occurred, for example, between 15 August and 15 December 2006, when immigrants left the coasts of West Africa for the Canary Islands, showed just how wide open the Union's external borders were to a rapidly increasing number of immigrants.
In this context, it is clear that the Union's external borders are a territory under the exclusive sovereignty of the Member States, but also territories whose integrity, monitoring and protection is in everyone's interests, given that problems that arise on those borders tend to have ramifications for the other Member States.
in writing. - (FR) Due to the fact that several Member States have been confronted with critical situations in the shape of massive influxes of illegal immigrants arriving by sea, the European Union has deemed it necessary to create Rapid Border Intervention Teams.
in writing. (SV) We have chosen to vote against the report because we believe that the tonnage redistribution levels proposed by the Commission are adequate.
The amendment will give the Member States the possibility for a limited increase in the capacity of their fleet for the purpose of improving safety, working conditions, hygiene and product quality on board, as well as energy efficiency.
The Galileo system is viewed with interest by countries such as China and India, which could be important partners in the project.
in writing. - (FR) We voted in favour of the resolution on the Galileo satellite navigation project.
We have had the opportunity on several occasions in this Chamber to express our support for an ambitious industrial project, in which, for once, the European dimension had a full part to play, even though we have also highlighted the project's shortcomings and flaws, such as its purely civil dimension and the transfer of technology to non-European countries such as China, that Communist dictatorship and exponent of unfair commercial competition.
Furthermore, it occurs to me that it was because of the political will of States that were very pragmatic in their efforts to cooperate with each other that all of the technical, human and financial resources were provided for the construction of a European aerospace industry and that Airbus came about.
in writing. (SV) We believe that human rights are universal and inviolable and that they need to be among the foundation stones of all societies.
in writing. - (FR) Despite its claim to be exhaustive, the report on human rights in 2006 does not mention any of the main causes of the violation of these rights: Communism, which still oppresses more than one and a half billion people, in China, North Korea, Vietnam, Laos, Cuba, Zimbabwe, and I could go on.
In every country in which they are in power, Communists deny people's fundamental rights, persecute their opponents, and send them in their millions to concentration camps.
On our continent, Communism has enslaved 300 million Europeans.
The fact that Mr Coveney does not dare mention the word in his report proves this.
That is an insult to the memory of the workers of Gdansk, of the insurgents of Berlin in 1953, of Budapest in 1956, of Prague in 1968 and of all the freedom fighters.
Since 1917, Communism has killed more than 100 million people.
Why I cannot vote in favour of the resolution on the Human Rights Report: 1.
However, in order to avoid hypocrisy the EU needs to investigate and tackle human rights violations committed with the involvement or support of EU Member states in third countries or against third-country nationals; 3.
I refer to point 10: 'Reiterates that, in their future Annual Reports on Human Rights, the Council and the Commission should analyse the ways in which human rights are dealt with in other EU policies, such as the Common Foreign and Security Policy, the policies on development and trade and immigration, and other relevant policies relating to the EU's external relations...' The EU's role in the world and in particular in its immediate neighbourhood involves its ability to use soft power to increase universal respect for human rights.
However, there are a number of paragraphs that we fundamentally disagree with, for instance paragraphs 4, 16, 28, 31, 47 and 132.
For this reason, British Conservatives abstained overall in the final vote on the report.
As we have said before, we welcome the initiative of tabling a motion for a resolution to the United Nations General Assembly calling for the adoption of a universal moratorium on the death penalty, which, according to reports, has the support of 88 countries.
I would also express the wish that the Member States and the EU as a whole follow up their words with action. (FI) Mr President, I am absolutely opposed to discrimination against homosexuals, but I hope that this House will one day draw up a resolution which no longer needs to be confused with the unsatisfactory concept of homophobia.
I wish, however, to express my sympathy for all those homosexuals who have had to suffer real discrimination and injustice. (NL) Mr President, it goes without saying - and I do not know anybody in this House who will beg to differ - that discrimination of homosexuals on account of their orientation is unacceptable in our Member States.
This is why I have voted against this resolution. (DE) Mr President, I wish to state here in relation to the way I voted that I have not voted against this resolution because I am in favour of discriminating against minority groups.
I voted against because I believe that there are more important subjects which we should be addressing this week, also in the form of a resolution, namely, the murder of Christians in Turkey.
The PPE-DE Group declares its support for the decisions taken by the European Parliament in relation to homophobia, in particular, the decision of 16 January 2006.
The PPE-DE Group absolutely trusts in the fact that Polish society will take the appropriate steps against these homophobic trends which have started to appear.
in writing. - (FR) I abstained in the vote on the motion for a resolution on homophobia in Europe.
in writing. (DA) In today's vote on homophobia in Europe, I chose to vote neither in favour of the report as a whole, nor against it, in spite of the fact that I very much agree with what the report says.
We voted in favour of this resolution on account of its general defence of human rights in the EU Member States, although we do have some criticisms with regard to the wording of one of the points.
We therefore support the call on the Commission for an anti-discrimination package based on Article 13 of the Treaty on European Union, aimed at putting an end to discrimination on various grounds including that of sexual orientation.
in writing. (SV) We voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses the importance of preventing discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
Our support for this resolution is simply a vote against loathsome discrimination against people because of their sexual orientation.
However, we oppose all those conclusions in the resolution concerning more power for the EU within various areas.
In Poland, as in other Member States, there is a feeling of dislike towards homosexuals.
The failure to mention the infringements of the rights of homosexuals in other European countries makes this document incomplete.
The statements made by politicians such as Maciej Giertych, Jarosław Kaczyński or Ewa Sowińska fortunately do not translate into specific legislative measures.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has abstained from voting on the resolution against homophobia in Europe since it does not agree with the procedure at the present time.
The PPE-DE Group declares its support for the decisions taken by the European Parliament in relation to homophobia (in particular, the decision of 16 January 2006).
In addition, the PPE-DE Group wholly supports the appointment of the European Agency for Fundamental Rights to investigate the situation relating to homophobia in Europe and does not wish to take further action before the results of the study are known.
Polish society enjoys the wholehearted confidence of the PPE-DE Group in that it will take the appropriate steps against these homophobic trends which have started to appear.
in writing. - (FR) Everyone is equal when it comes to their dignity, which must be respected and promoted.
This approach must forever guide all of our actions.
This resolution is not a repeat of the interinstitutional debate in which, I might add, only the initiated were able to take part.
Poland itself had already responded, on 5 March, on its Prime Minister's official website, to the fresh accusations being made by Parliament.
The implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact is one of the biggest hindrances to economic and social development in the EU and in the least developed Member States that suffer from economic difficulties, such as Portugal.
Hence our vote against the report before us.
