Draft Commission Regulation on REACH, as regards Annex XVII (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Mr Ouzký and Mr Sacconi, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the draft Commission Regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), as regards Annex XVII - B6-0230/2009).
I refer to Point 2.6 of this draft measure, which provides the missing Annex 17 that should have reproduced the provisions of Annex 1 of Directive 76 - the directive on dangerous substances, which will be replaced by REACH, and therefore repealed - this Point 2.6 extends the ban on the placing on the market of asbestos fibres and products containing asbestos.
Lastly, the second thing we are asking the Commission - and we would appreciate a reply on this, too - concerns a point that is critical for us, namely the fact that a Community list of articles containing asbestos for which an exemption applies has not yet been adopted, and so we are of course asking for this as soon as possible, by 2012, to enable better control and a better understanding.
Within the European Union there are very strict regulations on the placing on the market, use, export and disposal of asbestos fibres.
As far as other uses are concerned, the Member States may permit the use of a form of chrysotile asbestos in electrolysis installations that were already in service in 1999 until they reach the end of their service life and suitable asbestos-free substitutes are provided.
In June 2011 the Member States will have to report on their efforts to develop chrysotile-free diaphragms, on the measures taken to protect workers, and on the sources and the quantities of chrysotile used.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, in 1999 the European Union adopted a directive banning asbestos from 1 January 2005, but permitting a derogation for diaphragms used for existing electrolysis cells until they reached the end of their service life.
I think its most important points are paragraphs 8 and 9, which relate to the idea that the Commission should table a legislative proposal sometime this year concerning how asbestos, asbestos fibres, and equipment and structures containing them should be completely destroyed.
Asbestos should have been banned operationally by the Member States applying the 1999 directive.
This inertia can be seen in the events in Italy, in Brioni, where asbestos has not been removed, in Porto Marghera and in Cengio, where deaths are still occurring.
Yet again, precise dates are being set for a strategy to ban all types of asbestos by 2015, but these objectives were already set in 1999.
Thank you, Mr Sacconi.
I would like to thank them for the work they have done, and for participating in the various alliances that have done credit to our Parliament.
Thank you again for your comments and for all the hard work you have put in on such a sensitive issue concerning the health of workers and, I would also say, the health of all EU citizens.
