Progress of SIS II and VIS (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the progress of SIS II and VIS.
Those two projects, SIS II and VIS, formed part of the same contract, signed in 2003, between the Commission and a consortium of information technology companies.
It is true that, like most major industrial projects, both SIS II and VIS are in danger of going over schedule and over budget.
It is true that the situation is unsatisfactory as regards both SIS II and VIS.
The Commission is working closely with the Presidency, the Member States and the contractors to implement the guidelines laid down in the conclusions of the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 4 and 5 June.
That is why, on 29 September, the Commission proposed some amendments to the SIS II migration instruments, amendments on which your Parliament is currently being consulted.
As regards VIS, in April 2009, the contractor began a series of tests on the central system in order to assess the progress made.
The tests should be concluded on 11 November.
Thus, we are currently performing a detailed analysis with the Member States in order to set out a new timetable for the launch of VIS.
My meeting on Friday gives me reason to believe that 11 November could be the date when we will know whether the tests under way are successful.
The total amount of the Commission's budget commitments on SIS II stands at just over EUR 80 million, of which just over half, or EUR 44.5 million, have so far been paid.
However, if we succeed with VIS and SIS II, we will have equipped Europe with the most effective system in the world.
We therefore have to tackle the obstacles in a calm, clear and practical fashion, and in this respect, I will take the liberty of requesting Parliament's help as often as I need it in order, once again, to monitor these two issues very closely and to ensure their successful conclusion.
This is why we are putting these questions to you now as to the reason for this delay and as to whether it would be possible to guarantee a date by which the system will be up and running.
However, I would like to make it abundantly clear that our final target is to work together with the European Commission to ensure that the Schengen area is fully operational and that it works in the best interests of our citizens, without giving free reign to those with the wrong intentions.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for coming here today to update us on these issues in some detail.
We want to be reasonable, and we want to respond to the way in which you have given us the information today.
The technical problems we are seeing, and the development of these large-scale databases, do not inspire wider confidence.
Many of our Member States - including my own Member State - have had significant difficulties in their own development of major databases, in development of ID databases and so on.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I have never had so much speaking time in one evening in all my 10 years in the European Parliament!
The last thing I wanted to ask the Commissioner is this: the current estimate is that the SIS II will be in operation in the last quarter of 2011.
The UK Government did not take the opportunity to go into SIS I for reasons best known to itself.
Like Sarah Ludford, I am also extremely thankful for the extra time to speak this evening.
Currently, we are concerned that SIS is being transformed from a technical tool into a general system of control and surveillance.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, as ECR signatory to the joint motion, I am very pleased we are now engaged in this debate.
As Commissioner Barrot has said, some states are delaying, but without confidence you could hardly blame them.
What is important is that money which is being put to the wrong use here should be saved, which will mean we have fewer problems with the whole thing and can stop worrying about the delay with SIS II.
The new system is still not working.
Two global technical tests, the so-called milestone tests, are planned, the first on 22 December, and the second in the summer of 2010.
The aim of the first test is to check the smooth, reliable and effective operation of SIS II under operational conditions, for a period of 72 hours, and to check that the vital core features and data consistency can function without any problems or interruptions.
Finally, Madam President, one last question: Is it true that Bulgaria and Romania have given up waiting for SIS II, and their integration into SIS I is already being planned? (DE) Thank you Madam President.
In principle, we welcome the introduction of SIS II and its functionality.
The new Member States are here, but SIS II is still not here.
We should therefore prevent any additional financial burden for the Member States which might come out of the analysis or the tests and any further delay in the system.
What we need for this is 100% transparency, as well as clear language for those implementing the project on the Commission's behalf, and that must also mean that, where necessary, there are financial consequences for these project managers. (HU) Madam President, Commissioner, in 2006, when the new Member States were waiting to join the Schengen area, we stipulated, and it was stipulated to us, that one of the conditions was that SIS II had to be in operation.
Meanwhile, we should remember that new contracts had to be signed, new financial packages had to be found for developing the SIS II system, while the operation of the SIS I+ system still has to be financed.
To simply conclude my question, what guarantee is there that we will not have the same story with the VIS system? (PL) Madam President, in view of the delays and problems in completing work on SIS II, and of forecasts which say that it will not be fully functional by the end of 2011, and even, as some are saying, by 2015, it has been decided to conduct tests on SIS II before the end of this year which will assess its functionality.
With regard to VIS, it is the tests which affect the central system and which must be performed by 11 November, and for SIS II, it is the milestone, that is to say, this criterion that must be fulfilled by the end of the year.
What we can say is that tests will be carried out on VIS by 11 November, and these tests will tell us whether we ought to change course.
Until now, VIS can be thought of as having a sound architecture and, in fact, a few bugs, but ones that can be put right.
It is too soon to tell, but the timetable would be reviewed accordingly in that instance.
I would point out that, in 2005, the Council decided that VIS had to be rolled out in a consistent and coordinated fashion by the Member States.
That is why the VIS regulation stipulates that the system will begin operating in the first region on the date set by the Commission once all of the Member States have notified it that they have made all the technical and legal adjustments necessary to use VIS in that region.
This leads me to say that it really is important for all of the Member States to be able to get up and running and manage VIS because it would be extremely damaging if the central system proved to work normally but we were forced to extend the deadline even further because of these delays on the part of a few Member States.
I can say, however, that we have imposed contractual penalties on the Hewlett-Packard-Steria consortium in order to punish it, on the one hand, for its inability to bring the system up to the contractually required level at the end of the contractual phase of the operational tests on the ST and, on the other - for the time being, in any case - for the delays caused in the internal VIS tests.
Madam President, as things stand, and given what I said in respect both of VIS, about the tests that are going to take place by 11 November, and of SIS II, about the aim of confirming, via the end-of-year milestone, whether the architecture really is viable, I am unable to provide a more precise answer, since we are now at the stage of carrying out these tests and of preparing for the milestone.
I hope that, as in the case of Galileo, I will succeed more or less in saving both of these projects, which are very interesting in technological terms and which would enable Europe to benefit from a high-performance system, but I cannot be sure of that yet, this evening.
Madam President, I am well aware that I have not answered every single question, but I remain fully at Parliament's disposal to provide all the information that the MEPs and, in particular, those who put questions to me this evening, want, as and when I receive it.
The vote will take place at 11.00 on Thursday, 22 October 2009.
