We should, of course, recollect that at least 200 000 people have died in Darfur during the four-year conflict, and more than two million people have been forced from their homes.
Last but not least, we must not forget those 40 people still missing and thought to have been taken hostage.
There has, as yet, been no change in the situation, and further attacks like that of 29 September remain possible.
I would also remind you that the Government in Khartoum, through its actions thus far, bears a huge share of responsibility for today's tragic situation - and not only because it has supported the Janjaweed militias bringing death and terror to black African communities.
author. - (DE) Madam President, the attack to which this resolution relates was targeted against a diplomatic solution to the situation in Sudan.
author. - (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, following its independence in 1956, Sudan, which is the largest country in Africa in terms of surface area, was supposed to be a home for everyone, for the Arab north and the Black south, for Muslims, Christians and animists.
The most recent attack on this mission, which took place in Haskanita, aroused strong objections.
Above all, however, we need the political will of everyone, and it is my opinion that peace in Darfur and the whole of Sudan can be achieved only in cooperation with China.
Then, on 8 October, fighting erupted in the town of Muhajiriya, controlled by a Darfuri rebel faction.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, as Irish soldiers leave for Chad to protect refugees from neighbouring Sudan, I am again painfully reminded that this tragedy of genocide in Sudan continues day in and day out, without any end in sight.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Mr President, of course the death of ten soldiers in the African Union peacekeeping force in Darfur is yet another tragic event.
At least eight other personnel from the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS) were also seriously injured and another 40 remain missing.
The European Union mission to the Chad, Central African Republic and Darfur border must also be mindful of the danger of incurring casualties.
That is why we need to maintain pressure on the various parties involved ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) The conflict that has been ongoing in Darfur since 2003 is acknowledged as the greatest humanitarian catastrophe of our time.
In this situation it is important to act as quickly as possible to put into motion the joint UN and African Union mission, which, now that it has the agreement of the Sudanese government, must also have a strong mandate allowing it to provide full protection to the civilian population.
The European Union, the UN and the African Union must make joint efforts to renew the peace process in Darfur and to help to find a just and lasting agreement that is signed by all interested parties.
We welcome the intention of the Government to declare a cessation of hostilities when negotiations commence in Libya on 27 October, yet the Government needs to go further.
We also call upon them to participate wholeheartedly in the talks in Sirte.
On top of that, as you know, UN Security Council Resolution 1778, adopted on 25 September, mandates an international multidimensional force to contribute to the stabilisation of eastern Chad and the north-eastern Central African Republic and thus also guarantee the security of the local civilian population, refugees and displaced people and stabilise the situation in Sudan.
On this basis, the General Affairs Council and Foreign Affairs Council on 15 October decided to send an interim and multidimensional European force of 3 000 troops, EUFOR Chad, as we call it, to support and complement in the short term the deployment of the UN contingent.
Taking into account the regional dimension of the Darfur crisis, the deployment of this new EUFOR Chad mission and of a UN police mission in parallel with UNAMID in Sudan is, I think, a crucial step towards facilitating a durable solution of the conflict in Darfur and, ultimately, also towards the voluntary return of the Sudanese refugees who have settled in Chad.
