Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we used to learn at school: 'Mens sana in corpore sano' - a healthy mind in a healthy body, and we are, in theory, all acquainted with this wisdom from ancient Rome.
Physical activity promotes health, and competition in sport develops a range of social skills, such as friendship, team spirit, solidarity, commitment, perseverance and, last but not least, fair play.
We can therefore unreservedly welcome the way the Commissioner has at last responded to the aspiration expressed in my last report on sport, produced as long ago as 1996, and proclaimed a year of sport.
It is about using a large number of projects to highlight sport's role in informal learning and its educational value, and also the close partnership between school sport and the services provided by the many kinds of sporting organisations that exist in Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I often have had the pleasure of speaking in this House, but I have to say that today is a special occasion and I share with you the feeling that what we are doing here is of great significance.
Indeed, you are about to adopt the decision to make 2004 the European Year of Education through Sport.
It is also the first time that such a clear message has been sent to our citizens, showing them that the Community institutions will henceforth be concerning themselves with the social and educational potential of sport and its fundamental role in informal education.
I am sure that a European Year of Education through Sport can make a decisive contribution to the promotion of the ideals we share, the ideal of sport as having an educational role and as a means of imparting values.
It is also the formalisation of the astute work carried out together by Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
All this means that everything is now in order and we can therefore move on and start the practical work, for the discussions have progressed quickly and well.
All these demands have been taken into account and included in the final decision.
I have noticed, during my travels throughout Europe and my conversations and meetings how popular this new initiative is already and how high the expectations are of our citizens, in our schools, in sports organisations and public authorities.
I am therefore quite convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this European Year of Education through Sport will be a great Year.
Mr President, I spoke just now of the historic vote on education through sport.
The year 2004, as everyone knows, will be a historic year in many other respects too: enlargement, then the Convention and many other major events.
Mr President, I know that Parliament has started to discuss these questions and that you are already aware of the role played by sport in European integration and in awakening a European spirit in our fellow citizens.
We must take advantage of the fact that 2004 is the European Year of Education through Sport in order to demonstrate to the Europeans that we in the European Union are also concerned about sport and that we attach much importance, for example - since I do not want to give an interminable list - on the benefits which it brings for health, for the integration of people in our Europe and for the fight against xenophobia.
We must also take advantage of the possible impact of 2004 to demonstrate that it is entirely compatible to work for sport in the 15 Member States - or 25, when enlargement takes place - and also at Community level, at the same time, and that they must not fear that we are going to take over their competences.
I therefore ask that we all make an additional effort so that, in the next review of the Treaty on European Union, an article relating to sport may be included, once and for all, so that the Europeans may see that here, in the European Parliament, in the European Commission and in all the European institutions, we care about sport as an essential tool for improving their quality of life.
The European Year of Education through Sport can make use of this public interest in order to highlight the social value of sport.
In the same way, we should be treating women in sport with a new respect, and doing something about their status in this area too.
This is where there is a need for public awareness and also for financial support.
I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on this important report.
As has rightly been said, this is probably and primarily due to the fact that the Treaty still contains no articles giving the European Union explicit powers in this area.
It is also true to say that less and less time and attention is devoted to sports education at school, a trend that urgently needs to be reversed.
It is therefore essential to improve links between clubs and schools.
Apart from being an important social phenomenon and a way to improve psychological and physical health, sport is also an excellent educational instrument which helps young people acquire important social skills.
Mr President, the value of sport as a tool to promote national identity and further integration has long been recognised.
In terms of the construction of Europe, the role of sport was formally recognised by the Communities in the Adonino report presented to the Milan European Council in June 1985.
Therefore, whatever the fine rhetoric that might flow from this House, the true aim of this particular European Year is to promote further European integration.
The sum of EUR 11.5 million may be a small amount in the grander scheme of things, but it is still a lot of money.
In other words, I believe that the European Year of Education through Sport may be the right stimulus to get schools to do something for the European youth of tomorrow, to change the fate of a generation, so that, in the future, we have different young people who not only become champions but, more importantly, become people who see sport as a path to truth, in other words who become champions of humanity, for a champion of humanity can become a sporting champion too.
Mr President, Commissioner, the main effect of sport on those who participate in it is the promotion of physical and mental health, as well as education in tolerance, respect for rules and acceptance of a result by everybody.
These rules are profoundly democratic and promote dialogue and companionship.
Educating through sport means ensuring democratic values for future generations and this must appear in the Treaties.
It is excellent that the Commission should have begun to organise a Year of Sport.
Exercise can help keep a nation's major economic problems in check.
Afternoon sports programmes help children satisfy their natural desire and need for exercise.
Mr President, I will be very brief, because I know that time is flying by and that you have a very full agenda.
They will not ask us for money, for they have much more money than we have!
This is an experiment which will be repeated throughout 2003 and 2004: getting young volunteers - 100, 200, 300 volunteers - from all the countries of Europe to work together in the service of sport during major events of great symbolic importance.
The first experiment, in Dublin, will thus bring together 200 volunteers from all over Europe.
Mr President, the issue of public services is the subject of a major debate in Europe and elsewhere, and the general trend observed during the past 20 years has been a development of the role of the public authority, which no longer produces directly but regulates and establishes the rules for the game.
This is the case in Europe, in particular, where the goal - which was also a necessity - of creating a single market has certainly facilitated this development.
Experience has shown that the creation of a single market based on the system of healthy competition is fully compatible with socioeconomic concerns, of which services of general interest are one of the most practical elements.
Furthermore, a higher level of competition throughout the economy has led to an increase in the effectiveness of services of general interest.
Each step forward in the area of the internal market has gone hand in hand with the introduction of measures to ensure that the weaker regions and citizens are not left lagging behind.
Article 16 of the Treaty, introduced at Amsterdam, explicitly recognises the role of services of economic general interest.
The Commission has always recognised the primordial role of services of general interest.
In its 1996 communication on services of general interest in Europe, it proposed a reference to the promotion of these services.
The sectoral legislation adopted at Community level relating to major network industries, particularly the energy sector, contains extremely ambitious goals as regards high quality public services.
They contribute to the citizens' quality of life and are an essential condition if the citizens are to be able to exercise many of their rights fully.
The Green Paper will allow the Commission firstly to examine whether a framework directive would be appropriate and secondly to launch a large-scale debate on the overall issue.
In addition, alongside the preparation of the Green Paper, we are working on other dossiers, particularly in the area of the application of rules on state aid and in the field of the evaluation of services.
It is the case that, thirteen months ago, Parliament delivered its opinion on services of general interest by a well-supported vote, with 435 votes being cast in the final vote.
The latter two of these, submitted before the Copenhagen Summit, just as the submission of the others six months ago preceded that in Seville, say nothing more than that rulings are awaited from the European Court of Justice.
I do not at all understand, Commissioner, why the Commission does not have its proposals debated here in Parliament, openly and with no holds barred.
Although, Commissioner, you are affected by this only tangentially, this being primarily a matter for the Competition Commissioner, it is for this reason that I really do want to insist with some emphasis that the Commission should not just hand out 'non-papers' that it sends to governments - the last was on 12 November this year - but should involve Parliament in this debate.
So let me say quite bluntly that, as you have already mentioned, we called for a framework directive.
That means that this public debate on the basis of Article 95 leads to a decision by Parliament and the Council by way of the codecision procedure.
The European Court of Justice's ruling in the Ferring case is a workable basis on which to evaluate state aid and public services.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would naturally like to thank the Commissioner for her announcement and for the prospect of a Green Paper.
As you yourself said, services of general interest are the cornerstone of our European social model.
Even the Council is ahead of the Commission, as the Council pressed for this framework directive in Nice and then much more explicitly in Barcelona.
Despite this, the Commission insists on broad consultation first via a Green Paper in the spring of 2003.
The Green Paper will furthermore arrive too late to contribute to the discussion in the Convention about the role of services of general interest.
Secondly, the Convention must provide the opportunity to establish the basic principles of public services with complete respect for the powers of the Member States.
Thirdly, our constitution must clearly specify that services of general interest are our people's social rights and must not be left to market rules and competition.
Competition is excellent - we agree with the internal market - in that it is a way of raising standards generally and can also be a way of raising standards in the services concerned, but not for its own sake.
Perhaps it would be interesting to look at a country outside the EU - Switzerland - in terms of energy policy.
Such matters have to be resolved so that we can provide the same level of service to all our citizens and therefore guarantee the social cohesion which is so important to Europe.
It is ridiculous that the Convention and its working groups are currently discussing these issues.
Mr President, I welcome the fact that we are debating services of general interest once again, on the occasion of the Commission's statement.
They must guarantee access to high quality services for all citizens throughout the whole of the territory and at the same price.
However, the rules of profitability and the principle of competition run counter to these objectives and these functions.
The modernisation of services of general interest must be part of a measure not seeking to open up the market to competition but intended to respond to the needs expressed.
In this connection, the European Union has a particular responsibility.
Despite calls from the European Parliament on a number of occasions, this evaluation of the consequences for safety, the environment, quality and social concerns has never been carried out.
We must address this issue in the debate on the Treaty.
That is why we cannot be content with a minimal definition of a European universal service.
Commissioner, I am quite surprised to hear you say that it has been proven for 20 years that the single market governed by competition law is perfectly - as you said - compatible with social objectives.
I believe that, in actual fact, we, and the Commission, in particular, would find it much easier to make these self-congratulatory statements if we had an evaluation, as my fellow Members have said.
I believe that, if we were to turn a deaf ear to the doubts being expressed today regarding the continuity and sustainability of these services, particularly since they have been called into question as a result of disasters and particularly since this deterioration is currently evident in a number of public services, we would be severely jeopardising the future of Europe and the result of the decision that its citizens will have to take on the future Constitution.
You have decided to open a broad consultation process on the Green Paper.
to make themselves heard during this consultation on the Green Paper.
Mr President, Commissioner, as regards services of general interest, the Commission is attempting to reconcile two requirements which are, in a number of respects, opposed: the need to guarantee the provision of certain services which the market is considered not to be able to provide efficiently and at affordable prices, and the need to prevent certain services becoming a source of distortion of the market or distortion of competition.
I feel that this is a serious mistake and that, now, the mobile telephone service is to all intents and purposes a service of general interest.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies, gentlemen, and our erstwhile lady colleague, I believe that any framework directive or Green Paper should take into account our previous experience with services of general interest.
Here, for once, I would like to give the Commission credit for submitting a very specific proposal for a regulation on local public transport as long ago as 2000.
We have had more lip service to the principle of services of general interest.
We were told that the Commission was going to produce a framework for services of general interest before the end of this year, now we get a promise of a Green Paper.
We urgently need a change in competition law which enables services of general interest, public services, to survive and to prosper, and we need a clause in our new constitution which guarantees public services right across Europe.
They will enable citizens to be well-informed, to be well-educated, not only in terms of technological education, but also politically literate.
Mr President, Commissioner, I expect your morning could have been more pleasant.
It points out, in particular, that the first general document on the subject produced by the Commission dates back to 1996.
Six years on, the Commission has announced a Green Paper.
A number of contributions have already been submitted on the subject of services of general interest and the reconciliation thereof with competition law.
Page 6 of the document even states that, without this, any changes will actually be to the detriment of the European model of society and the values recognised by the European democracies.
We who are members of the Convention or Members of the European Parliament must turn to our national governments and, within the Convention, we must fight to ensure that the future European Constitution genuinely contains legal provisions providing a framework for competition law.
Two years on, after a report from the Laeken Council and a call from the Barcelona Council for work to begin on a framework directive, we are still at more or less the same point, and the Commission's only proposal is to put off resolution of the issue once again and draw up a Green Paper which will lead to a huge consultation process.
The Treaty must state clearly that, firstly, the Union recognises the freedom of administration of the States and their authorities, which includes their right to define and organise their public services, and, secondly, that the funding offsetting the additional costs of successfully providing services of general interest is not to be deemed state aid.
As regards all these points, Mr President, the Member States meeting at the Council must take things in hand without delay.
Commissioner, there is such a thing as the Lisbon process, which speaks unambiguously in terms of the European Union having social cohesion as its objective.
Like many of my fellow Members, I, for my part, feel that a precise legal framework is essential to protect and facilitate the development of public services in Europe as an essential part of citizenship.
Now, public services cannot be subject principally to internal market rules because their objectives are long-term objectives, not immediate profitability, whether they relate to social and territorial cohesion, equal treatment or, as is sometimes the case, even equal pricing.
I believe, in conclusion, that we need to give the Member States the possibility of having exclusive operating rights in certain geographical areas and of having reserved sectors which are not open to competition, for the expectations of the Union's citizens are very high when it comes to public services.
Mr President, the representatives of the Lutte ouvrière object to the term 'service of general interest', for using it to replace the term 'public service' means abandoning public services and leaving services which are useful to the people to be governed solely by market forces.
We therefore object to both the form and the content of your communication, and we demand that public services be preserved and, where necessary, reestablished in all sectors which are useful to the majority of the people.
Mr President, Commissioner, all of us - or the overwhelming majority of us in this House - view the single internal market and competition in a very favourable light.
There are, though, many people who are affected by this issue of general interest, and we are indeed seeing a burgeoning commercialisation of what are called services of general interest.
There is one thing that we can say with certainty, and that is that Parliament believes that the dialogue between the Commission and the European Court of Justice must come to an end.
We do not need decisions in individual cases, but we do need the Commission to at long last specify the criteria to which it will refer when it takes decisions in future.
Yet, while we are given these documents, others are getting what are described as 'non-papers' - substantial documents that are really worth discussing, and in which we could find that there is legal certainty on specific points.
What we need right now is an answer and not this or that Green Paper, which serve only to delay the discussion process for ever and a day.
We must, therefore, acknowledge the importance of high-quality public services in guaranteeing all citizens the right of access, which also requires a firm stance to be taken in WTO negotiations against the liberalisation of public services.
As the last speaker, Commissioner, I can either repeat the comments of those who have already spoken or oppose them.
I will try to make one or two additional points.
In my view, if the European Constitution does not include a substantial chapter or article on public services, its authors will be in danger of playing into the hands of those who want it to be rejected.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
Report (A5-0445/2002) by Joan Colom i Naval, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument according to point 24 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 (COM(2002) 399 - C5-0599/2002 - 2002/0157(ACI)) (Parliament adopted the text) Draft amendments to the draft general budget 2003 as modified by the Council Before the vote: Mr President, I have some technical changes to announce before the vote.
He has managed to unite all the Member States and find solutions with us to very difficult issues.
First, Amendment 25 on budget line B2-5120 - Farm accountancy data network (FADN) - the figures should be modified as follows: an addition of EUR 1 391 000 in commitments and of EUR 1 383 000 in payments, giving the final figures of EUR 11 337 000 in commitments and EUR 11 329 000 in payments.
Secondly, Amendment 238 on budget line B2-517 on plant and animal genetic resources.
Thirdly, Amendment 246 on budget line B3-3062 on Prince.
I suggest that we vote on these corrections en bloc before we start voting on the amendments.
Mr President, it is the right of any Member of this House to raise a point of order properly under the Rules, not just some Members of this House.
I simply wanted to thank the presidency but also the sessional services for all the work they do to ensure that this process goes through so smoothly.
We have voted a budget with commitments of just under EUR 100 billion.
Mr President, Parliament has now undertaken the second reading of the 2003 budget, and I note that the agreement reached between Parliament and the Council at the consultancy meeting on 25 November of this year has now been ratified in the 2003 budget.
Now that the Danish Presidency has come to an end, I should like to say that I have always had a lot of respect for the European Parliament, and I can assure you that this respect has not diminished as a result of the positive cooperation I have been fortunate enough to be able to experience during the last six months.
Mr President, given the tragic nature of the disaster off the coast of Galicia and the other Member States which have since been affected by the oil tragedy, there is great solidarity and support in this House for our colleagues in Galicia.
Therefore, I would urge the House to support the switching of EUR 30 million.
The Prestige accident occurred on 19 November.
All this could have been dealt with differently and in a different time frame.
The Commission proposal at least gives us the chance to use this year's budget - the 2002 budget - and that would be a better solution for taxpayers, to make sure that we are using money from this year, rather than getting supplementary own resources for next year.
Whilst condemning the procedure and making it abundantly clear that this calendar of the Commission should not in any circumstances represent a precedent, I can recommend, on behalf of the coordinator of the Committee on Budgets, approval of the urgency. (Applause) Mr Wynn, I believe the applause indicates that the House deeply appreciates your exceptional outburst of pragmatism on this occasion. (Parliament approved the proposal for a regulation) Recommendation for second reading (A5-0419/2002) by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council decision establishing the European Year of Education through Sport 2004 (9605/2/2002 - C5-0498/2002 - 2001/0244(COD)) (Rapporteur: Doris Pack) (The President declared the common position approved) Report (A5-0381/2002) by Graham R.
Watson, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision on the signing of the Agreement between the European Community and the Government of the Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation (SEC(2002) 412 - C5-0263/2002 - 2002/0092(CNS)) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Joint motion for a resolution Mr President, my voting buttons have malfunctioned.
I wish you all a very happy Christmas.
I hope you have the relaxation and rest that we all deserve.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE . (PT) We have voted in favour of this report because as a result, the funding of EUR 27 million for the conversion of the Spanish and Portuguese fishing fleets which operated in Moroccan waters will be ensured.
We must ensure that the commitment given last year by the budgetary authority, to include EUR 27 million in the 2003 budget, is met.
Nevertheless, I must express my unhappiness at the serious precedent being set by anticipating transferring structural funds that have not been used in 2002, totalling almost EUR 15 million, affecting their future reprogramming and redistribution, since we know that this is a highly sensitive area for all Member States.
The 2003 draft budget is, in itself, sound.
In the light of this doubt and in the absence of any clarification from Commissioner Nielson, we cannot vote for this budget line.
Sport contributes, in particular, to increasing the social skills of young people, such as team spirit, solidarity and fair play.
I therefore welcome the decision to hold the European Year of Education through Sport 2004, which will make a positive contribution to reversing what has almost been the norm to date, and by this I mean Community action on sport which is restricted to pilot schemes and preparatory measures.
I also agree with the rapporteur with regard to the need to adopt the Council common position as it stands, since it takes on board most of the amendments tabled by the European Parliament. . (PT) The Commission has proposed that 2004 should be designated 'the European Year of Education through Sport'.
Mrs Pack's approach aims, as does that of the Commission, to allow better use to be made of the educational values of sport in improving curricula, and particularly parallel education, by establishing a broader partnership between education organisations and sports organisations.
As you all know, I have always supported these initiatives, ever since 2004 was designated as 'European Year of Education through Sport' - and I stated this in the earliest debates on the matter in this House.
I wish to reaffirm that this will give an important boost to better use being made of the educational values of sport in order to improve curricula and especially, parallel education, by establishing broader partnerships between educational and sports bodies.
Furthermore, I would say that, in this context, it is worth emphasising the connections between sport and education and thereby increase the visibility of the 'European Year of Education through Sport', by holding and funding, for example, athletics meetings at school level in each participating country.
Firstly, it claims that the two decisions are not connected because they are not simultaneous.
This agreement comes in the wake of other, equally scandalous agreements concluded by the European Community with various poor countries across the world and which fall directly in line with the repressive policies decided on by the governments and authorities of the European Union, concerning those who are attempting to escape poverty or oppression in the hope of finding work and a future here.
I therefore doubt whether an agreement on the readmission of refugees would really work.
These paragraphs welcome in particular the doubling of financial assistance to that country under a strategy which, according to the Copenhagen conclusions, is no longer even called 'pre-accession' but 'accession' proper.
In fact, Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union does not apply in this case: it provides for the accession procedure for 'European' States.
We have, therefore, voted against your self-congratulation.
This is the sharing of a common set of values in the field of liberal democracy, respect for human rights, social protection of the weakest, the protection of minorities, a market economy and peaceful coexistence under the rule of law.
The prospect of a Union of 25 is now a reality.
Extending the Union to more than 100 million new citizens, from this first stage formalised in Copenhagen onwards, will encourage exchanges and economic activity and will breathe new life into the development and integration of Europe's economy as a whole.
The consequences could be extremely damaging unless Portuguese interests are properly considered in the negotiations still to take place, even after the political decision on accession.
With less money, we are now supposed to cater for ten new members.
The FRG has for more than ten years transferred between three and four per cent of its GDP to the new 'Länder', totalling some EUR 75 billion per year.
The shotgun imposition of the - basically partition-based - Annan plan in Cyprus is also unacceptable and signals an end to the UN resolutions and any hope of a fair and viable solution.
There are five million Danes and five million Scots.
My vote was motivated by these thoughts, as well as by a great satisfaction at seeing this greater Union safely achieved.
There will be much less money available to the farmers in the new Member States than to their counterparts in the present Member States.
That is not likely to prevent Central Europe from being the poor cousin of the West for a long time to come.
Nevertheless, amongst other aspects I disagree with, I must mention my unhappiness with the second part of paragraph 5 of the motion, which stresses the need to reform the common agricultural policy before 2006, on the basis of the Commission's proposals.
In fact, this proposal goes against the decision taken by the Fifteen Member States only to amend the CAP after 2006 and demonstrates its presumptive approval of fundamental choices that have not yet been subject to the necessary parliamentary debate.
With regard to Portugal in particular, this debate will certainly take account of the specific characteristics of Portuguese farming and the abnormally low income of Portuguese farmers as a consequence of our only joining the European Community in 1986, when the other Member States had been benefiting from it since 1962.
It was unfortunate that this alternative and complement to Turkey's membership ambitions was voted down, with 201 'yes' votes, 238 'no' votes and 16 abstentions. . (FR) The Copenhagen Summit will go down in history as a summit of total incoherence.
Flying in the face of the geographical and historical evidence, Copenhagen has not only failed to make up for the mistakes of Helsinki, but has even compounded its 1999 mistake of misleading Turkey and has embarked on a course of action that will ultimately make Ankara the dominant power in the European Union.
It is also powerless because the EU has shown itself to be incapable of preventing the predictable shipwreck of the oil tanker Prestige, which was 25 years old and flying a flag of convenience off the coast of Galicia.
We then see contempt when the Eurocrats meeting in the Convention take decisions concerning 450 million citizens on basic constitutional texts without involving or consulting these citizens.
I must also point out that the European Council has only given EUR 5 million for the Prestige, a sum which I described yesterday as miserable and this must be said, bearing in mind that the United States have applied specific legislation through the Oil Pollution Act and are going to claim, and will achieve, EUR 4 000 million from Exxon Mobil for the Exxon Valdés accident.
I believe these things should be pointed out so that the European Union may really become a political union which shows solidarity, especially in the case of an accident such as the one that has taken place in Galicia, which is a truly European problem.
I fully agree with this basic text, of which we were the main proponents and which follows on from the useful content of the debates in plenary, now and as long ago as 21 November, and from that of the previous resolution in this field.
I wish to reaffirm our two main approaches: the Commission and the Council must act immediately on what has been learned from this appalling disaster, in terms of rigorous new measures for the future, anticipating the full applicability of others that have already been adopted and a thorough examination of the entire legal and technical framework.
Spain, therefore, should today - and France tomorrow, probably - take the Bahamas to the Court in Hamburg.
He would have voted against the resolution and the majority was achieved by only one vote: 223 to 224.
It is actually extremely important for us when an amendment is adopted or rejected by a single vote.
Mrs Lulling, as a Member of long standing - even longer than myself - you know perfectly well that what you have just said lies entirely outside the precedent of the House.
In those terms, although colleagues can be upset that their vote has not been recorded, it is a fact and a practice of this House that only those votes recorded and duly announced carry the result.
Mrs Lulling, this is then in your hands.
Mr President, may I start by saying how delighted I am to see the new generation of Europe in the visitors' gallery following this debate, which directly affects their future.
Unfortunately, however, the European Commission report is also unsatisfactory.
At the same time, action to encourage more women to apply to participate in applications has been unsuccessful.
Our motion for a resolution calls on the European Commission to examine new ways of disseminating information and simplifying bureaucratic and other commitments which will allow women and women's organisations to find out about and take part in European programmes.
So it would be very useful for the purpose of raising awareness of the situation and drawing up future policies if the European Commission were to conduct a serious study with indicators and comparative data on the situation in each Member State, especially on the application of Community legislation, so that we can compare problems and achievements and exchange best practices.
During the forthcoming year, 2003, the European institutions and Member States will need to act boldly and decisively.
We shall be preparing for the first European elections to include the candidate countries in 2003, and for national elections in various Member States.
As for the European Commission, we are anxiously waiting for it to present a proposal for a gender equality directive based on Article 13 as quickly as possible, so that we can follow up the equal opportunities programme decided in Beijing and achieve our self-imposed targets throughout the fabric of economic and public life.
Very progressive and inspiring ideas have been explored, and these encourage the Commission to continue its efforts towards this objective.
As we did in the last annual report, we have taken care, in the report on 2001, to take your comments and proposals into account.
Your proposals, suggestions and concerns will, of course, also be taken into account in preparing and elaborating the report on 2002, work on which has already started.
It is envisaged that a provisional report on these activities will appear at the end of 2003.
This communication will be a valuable instrument in the programme's mid-term assessment.
I would like to conclude by returning to the issue of violence against women, in relation to which the Commission welcomes the Council's framework resolution of 19 July 2002 on the fight against trafficking in human beings.
Commissioner, we are dealing with the annual report for 2001 on the progress and difficulties observed in the achievement of equal opportunities.
The political measures implemented are being analysed but their consequences are not being assessed.
The objective of this framework strategy is to guarantee that all the Commission's policies take account of gender issues and analyse the repercussions of its activities on men and women.
We must once again demand that indicators be produced on the structures for childcare, dependent persons and family assistance, as well as the differences in salary between men and women.
The Barcelona European Council called on the Member States to eliminate the obstacles preventing women from fully participating in the labour market, in particular by creating crèches.
Respect for and promotion of equality between men and women are part of the Community acquis and are therefore an essential condition for the new countries of the European Union.
It is true that the Commission has made efforts to promote equality between men and women, but so far they have been insufficient.
The absence of women through balanced representation in decision-making bodies is significant, particularly social partners and other bodies.
It is very important that the Commission has included the integration of the principle of equality between men and women in external relations, and it must be present in all agreements with third countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have an almost balanced representation of Members here today for this debate on women's rights.
The Commission has succeeded particularly well in giving clear pointers for the way forward in equal opportunities, by means of the framework strategy on gender mainstreaming and the associated fifth action programme on gender equality.
I would like to point out that we in the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities have already on several occasions proposed what was agreed here this morning: to make 2004 the European Year of Education through Sport.
We also need to maintain the political will to make progress in involving women at all levels of decision making, both legally speaking and in practice.
The outcome of the Convention in that respect has been very disappointing, so we need to act now.
We need to make progress both in terms of political decision-making and as regards the administration.
We expect that here in the European Parliament, where 30% of the Members are women, which means that we are somewhat better than average, things will be even better after the elections, so that we will move significantly closer to the goal of equal representation of men and women in this House.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no sensible person would dare to reject the principle of equality between men and women, or in other words between human beings.
Yesterday as well, the media reflected the figures relating to domestic violence inflicted on women by their husbands, boyfriends or ex-partners.
On the other hand, it is of some comfort that the result of the survey suggests an improvement in the situation in comparison with the survey of 1999, but it is worrying that this situation is continuing 15 years after a constitutional text, in its marvellous Article 14, declared that all Spaniards, in this case, are equal before the law, and that there could be no discrimination on the grounds of race, sex etc.
Our Charter of Fundamental Rights, in Article 20, declares that all persons - it does not say men and women, which is not necessary - are equal before the law.
And Article 21 states that all discrimination is prohibited and, in particular, discrimination on the grounds of sex, race etc.
The fact that certain male colleagues have started to take the floor and enthusiastically support gender equality shows that progress has also been made within the European Parliament.
It is a fact that resistance, with attitudes and structures generated by this long-standing patriarchy, often proves to be stronger than political will or even legislation.
Another issue is the fight against various forms of violence against women.
I know, Commissioner, that you mentioned the decisions taken by the Commission to fight trafficking in human beings, but we are by no means convinced that these decisions and the guidelines which you have issued will soon be transposed into the legislation of the Member States and we know that without judicial and without police cooperation, that is, without pan-European collaboration, it is impossible to break up these gangs.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are in all nine directives on equal treatment, but no measures to improve their implementation.
However, the report once again reminds us that women's pay for the same or equivalent work continues to average only 76% of men's pay.
Women need to be involved in decision-making processes at all levels.
However, the procedures involved need to be rationalised and simplified, because they are too complicated, both at Community and at national level.
Amongst all of us, men and women, we must make it possible for both governments of the current countries of the Union and the governments of the candidate countries to take equality seriously, to transpose the directives when necessary and ensure that they do not fail to comply with Community legislation.
A new stage is beginning in which we will have to be very vigilant.
For them, the progress we can make here is absolutely essential.
Therefore, given that we women make up half of the citizenship of the European Union, it is essential to attend to their needs and expectations, because they are the needs and expectations of the majority of the European citizenship.
We are also talking about the expectations, the rights and the defence of equality for the majority of women in the world.
This Parliament's Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities has been working very intensively on all these issues.
We are interested to see the work the European Commission is doing as well and I believe that this report reflects perfectly both what we have assessed and also everything we are asking for for the more immediate future.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m.
I welcome the dynamism of our rapporteur, although I would like to make two observations.
Most of the 60 million people living beneath the poverty line in the EU are women.
In fact, the first preliminary draft of the constitutional treaty presented by the Convention in October 2002 causes me some concern.
The Convention's work programme, which is now dedicated to social issues, will enable this oversight to be corrected.
Equal opportunities, addressed in Article 23 of the Charter, are a fundamental right and a value that we hold dear.
Since 1975, the date of the first directive on equal pay and treatment, progress has certainly been made, but a great deal remains to be done.
Statistics broken down by gender and the gender dimension that is included in all our policies are essential prerequisites.
Practical actions to ensure that parents, both men and women, can benefit from infrastructures such as nurseries, for example, which enable them to reconcile family life and working life, would constitute a considerable step forwards.
This also requires a common effort to be made with the social partners to ensure that this fundamental principle is applied in every company and in all collective bargaining.
The EC Treaty does not refer to the concept of mountain regions as such.
Article 158, which provides the legal basis here, states, in connection with the policy of economic and social cohesion, that the Community shall aim in particular to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least favoured regions or islands, including rural areas.
For example, 95% of mountain regions come under Objective 1 or Objective 2 of Europe's structural policy.
The Commission has commissioned a study in order to assess the strengths and weaknesses of mountain regions more effectively.
In line with the first of these objectives, a definition of mountain regions is to be created for the 27 current Member States or candidate countries covered by the study.
This definition is being drawn up on the basis of topographical criteria, and in some cases climatic criteria are also taken into consideration.
At the beginning of December 2002, the contractor carrying out the study presented the Commission with 16 possible definitions, and these are at present being examined in detail.
We expect that the process of collecting and analysing data and the presentation of the final report will be completed by September 2003.
As regards regional policy and the common agricultural policy taking account of mountain regions in future, I have already explained that regional policy and agricultural and rural development policy are indeed two policies that directly take account of mountain regions.
In the case of regional policy this is done through regional programmes for Objective 1 and Objective 2 areas, and also under the Community initiative known as Interreg, particularly through the Alpine region programme.
The Commission's proposals on the future of the regional policy are to be presented at the end of 2003 as part of the Third Cohesion Report.
As regards measures in favour of mountain regions under other Community policies, I would like to say a little more about competition policy and about general interest services.
As you know, EU policy on grants of state aid is based on Article 87(1) of the Treaty, which stipulates that grants of aid by the state are fundamentally incompatible with the common market.
However, this article also specifies cases in which grants of state aid may be approved.
Furthermore, the Commission attaches great importance to services of general interest, as demonstrated by its communication of January 2001.
However, as you know, maintaining and developing services of general interest is solely a matter for the individual Member States.
The Commission can only offer encouragement in this field.
In addition, the new Article 16 of this Treaty specifically recognises the important role played by services of general economic interest in promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion.
The importance of these provisions was also emphasised by the Heads of State and Government at the Lisbon Summit in March 2000.
Although this convention only directly affects four Member States, the Commission was involved in launching this initiative.
It was not until summer 2002 that a sufficient number of signatories to the convention had ratified the various protocols so that it could come into operation.
The Commission has already presented its proposal for signing the transport protocol to the Council.
However, I have to report that this proposal has so far not made much further progress within the Council.
However, we hope that things will move forward positively in the coming months, reflecting the effort made by some Member States at the end of the summer to breath new life into the Alpine Convention.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission will continue to pay close attention to issues concerning mountain regions.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your statement, which suggests that mountain regions will perhaps no longer be entirely overlooked in European policy.
Until now, unfortunately, mountain regions have rarely been a subject on which we have made observations or recommendations.
They are usually exceptional areas, which must therefore be managed in a very specific way, within a global policy of sustainable development of the mountains.
This type of farming cannot exist, however, without people, hence the need to preserve these mountain areas from desertification and to do everything possible to maintain a human presence there.
In order to achieve this, we must encourage private initiative, we must help local SMEs, which often suffer as a result of their isolation and communication difficulties and we must maintain services.
You also emphasised, however, the need to define mountain areas and not to forget hilly areas, because these play a crucial buffer role between mountains and lowland areas.
In conclusion, the sustainable development of mountain areas can only be achieved if all partners are fully involved.
I shall therefore dwell on a few points that complement what has just been said.
If we want our territories to enjoy a form of economic development that comprehensively brings together preserving the countryside, preserving the type of farming that is characteristic of a mountain region and developing tourism, perhaps the Commission should listen more carefully to two or three points that are absolutely crucial.
I think it is crucial that Community competition legislation is adapted to take account of the specific characteristics of our regions, in order to reduce these economic and structural disadvantages.
This concerns the territorial coherence and the cohesion of the European Union.
Mr President, I would first like to say that we are at the end of the International Year of Mountains, which was organised by the United Nations.
I think it is very positive that Parliament is able to discuss Europe's role in this matter, particularly at the end of the Year of Mountains.
I think that we should take into account the important role of the Convention in this.
Mountains are areas that contain some of the few remaining wildlife sanctuaries left in Europe.
They need special status as sensitive areas.
The Commission, whilst pushing for the International Convention on the Protection of the Alps, states that the protocols have been ratified, but not everyone has ratified the transport protocol.
In relation to priorities, there is a conflict between the trans-European networks and the needs and concerns of people.
Their concerns have been ignored to prioritise the trans-European networks.
Finally, I cannot understand why the Commissioner is not putting pressure on Member States to ensure that they comply with Natura 2000 in the Alpine regions or why we do not have officially adopted lists of sites of Community interest.
Mountain regions are also seeking recognition for the quality of their products.
Mountainous regions will only remain open if everything possible is done to offer those who have chosen to live there prospects for the future, particularly young people.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mountain regions account for 30% of the surface area of the Community of Fifteen, and 10% of the population lives in mountain regions.
Up to now, the European Union has viewed its policy on mountain regions as part of agricultural policy.
Mountain regions account for over 50% of the total surface area of Member States such as Austria, Italy, Spain and Greece.
I think that in the final report to be presented in September 2003 this will provide us with a foundation on which we can build.
However, it would also certainly be advantageous if you could make a strong case to the Commission for it to take due account of the report on this subject adopted by the European Parliament on 9 September last year and to act accordingly.
The very fact that this debate is being held is an achievement and I would say that, this year, in honour of the International Year of Mountains, the European Parliament too has endeavoured to make its contribution.
That is a shame, for this may well be a historic time for the mountains in terms of their future and prospects.
Twenty-seven, almost thirty years have passed: the mountains have changed dramatically in that time but we are still working with a very outdated directive.
Allow me to add that Swedish mountain regions too have been presented in Parliament in recent times.
The debate is closed.
The next item is debates on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure).
I am afraid that the way in which Article 23 is being interpreted may lead to the disappearance of fundamental freedoms such as academic freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of organisation and religious freedom.
If a group such as Falun Gong, which is banned in China, were also to be banned in Hong Kong, it would be a serious offence against the principle of one country, two systems.
Madam President, the decision by the government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to publish a consultation paper presenting its proposals for an anti-subversion law in accordance with Article 22 of the Basic Law has led to great uproar and concern not only in Hong Kong itself, but also here in the European Parliament.
We have very clearly heard what not only people in the religious world but also the business world, the newspapers and journalists in Hong Kong have told us, and we need to take those fears very seriously.
These are genuine fears and we must take them seriously, because we are talking about civil rights that we regard as fundamental values, and we also intend to defend those fundamental values in China.
I call on China to respect it and to ensure that Hong Kong can exercise its own rights and is not subject to any pressure to limit existing rights and freedoms.
Madam President, one country, two systems.
Article 23 of the Basic Law, however, is a potential time bomb under all of this.
The Hong Kong authorities have embarked upon the implementation of this highly controversial article at a most inopportune moment, and in a manner that lacks transparency.
Article 23 therefore reflects Chinese Communist paranoia, both past and present.
While Hong Kong is going through a difficult economic period, Peking is making matters worse with its crippling political uncertainty.
The Council and Commission must therefore address the powers that be in Hong Kong and Peking on this matter quickly, as the European Union is serious about maintaining the principle of 'one country, two systems' for Hong Kong.
Madam President, since July 1997, the European Parliament has been a staunch defender of the autonomy of Hong Kong under the 'one-country two-systems' policy.
In pursuit of this policy, we have worked constructively with the Hong Kong administration, reflected by the attendance of the former Chief Secretary Anson Chan and her successor, Donald Tsang, at meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
Last weekend, a large demonstration in Hong Kong illustrated the genuine concerns that Article 23 laws could undermine existing human rights and civil and religious liberties.
In particular, the new laws must not violate the provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, nor must they in any way undermine the independence of the Hong Kong courts and their right to exercise the power of final jurisdiction.
I would ask the Hong Kong authorities to take note of this debate, to take note of this resolution, especially our request for the publication of a draft bill which should be subject to further consultation.
My second point is that all countries need security legislation.
I would argue that even what is proposed is milder than the recent Homelands Security Act passed in the United States, without much obvious protest from this House.
We asked the Hong Kong authorities to ensure that the Article 23 proposal would not be used to silence opposition.
The law would increase the authorities' powers to control and thus to censor everything printed in newspapers, as well as other media and other published material.
Let Christmas be celebrated through the withdrawal of Article 23.
That will probably happen in February 2003.
The Commission's approach is based on the assumption that a wide-ranging consultation process will now take place, and that this will subsequently be extended to the detailed legislative provisions as soon as they are presented to the Legislative Council.
The Commission believes that it is very important for the views expressed by various groups during this consultation process to be taken fully into account when drafting the future legislative provisions.
Furthermore, the proposed legislative provisions and their application should not undermine the preservation of a constitutional system or respect for human rights and basic freedoms in Hong Kong, in accordance with its 'one country, two systems' principle.
Lastly, in accordance with Hong Kong's Basic Law, the legislation proposed must be compatible with UN agreements on civil and political rights and on economic, social and cultural rights.
On the basis of their recommendations it intends to transmit a declaration to the Hong Kong regional government at the highest possible level and as soon as possible, and in any case before the end of the consultation process on 24 December; this declaration will emphasise the European Union's commitment to the principles I have just mentioned.
Thank you, Commissioner Schreyer.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Ariel Sharon has clearly said that there is a need to build a link between the settlement of Qiriat Arba and the Tomb of the Patriarchs.
The first illegal fact is the military occupation of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, which has now been in effect since 1967.
Our only concern is for there not to be two sets of checks and balances: human rights and the right to life are equal for all people.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time it will be Christmas and we are calling in our resolution for worshippers to be allowed to visit the Church of the Nativity at Christmas.
Although the PPE-DE Group is nevertheless taking part in this debate today, it does so aware and with the conviction that the action announced by the Israeli authorities to safeguard access to the Kiriat Arba settlement can only have disastrous consequences for the development of the continuing conflict, without genuinely guaranteeing the security of its, the settlement's, inhabitants.
Madam President, the destruction of cultural heritage in Hebron is very symbolic.
Madam President, this is not, unfortunately, the first time that Israel has vandalised religious and cultural monuments and contravened the Venice Charter and all the UNESCO and ICOMOS conventions, without the world's protesting.
The destruction of these cultural treasures has nothing to do with security and self-defence.
The European Union has condemned the attack by Palestinian militants on 15 November in which 12 Israeli soldiers were killed.
The Commission considers that the destruction of historic Palestinian dwellings is in breach of the Hebron Protocol agreed by Israel and the Palestinian Autonomy Authority in 1997.
That protocol commits both parties to preserving and protecting the historic character of the town, so that no part of its heritage is damaged or changed.
Thank you, Commissioner Schreyer.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Madam President, Commissioner, we have discussed Tibet many times here in this Chamber.
Perhaps there is, however, a very small light at the end of the tunnel inasmuch as a cautious dialogue has been instituted between Beijing and representatives of the Dalaï Lama.
The fact that two people like Ngawang Sangdrol and Jigme Sangpo - two very well-known prisoners of conscience to whom attention has been drawn on several occasions in this Chamber - have now been released from their long-term imprisonment is also very positive.
It is all the more worrying, therefore, that the two Buddhist Tibetans, Tenzin Delek and Lobsang Dhondup have now been sentenced to death.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party demands a fair legal process in accordance with the rule of law and treatment in accordance with international conventions.
Tibet is an area with its own culture, its own religion and its own political traditions.
The death sentences against Tenzin Delek, an influential Buddhist lama, and his assistant, Lobsang Dhondup, pronounced on 3 December, are a sad illustration of this.
We must see what is actually happening and bring about change judicially and in practice. . (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Delegation for relations with the People's Republic of China I have recently been able to hold many fascinating discussions with my Chinese counterparts.
So I too very much welcomed the release of both Ngawang Sangdrol and Jigme Sangpo.
We very much welcomed the fact that Li Peng honoured his commitment finally to enter into contact with the Dalai Lama and that initial discussions were actually being held with representatives of the Dalai Lama.
We regarded these as two very positive signs.
So we are all the more dismayed now that at exactly the same time two people, Tenzin Delek and Lobsang Dhondup - a lama and one of his followers - were arrested and kept in solitary confinement for six or even eight months, although to this day it has not been established beyond doubt that they really committed the act of which they were accused.
We understand very well that the fight against terrorism is important, but that means combating genuine terrorism, not dissidents.
His colleague Lobsang Dhondup also faces a death penalty, without reprieve.
Lastly, as Chairman of Parliament's Tibet Intergroup, I would like to express my hope that the forces of reason will prevail in China and that our worldwide campaign for human rights and the rule of law will succeed.
However, that also demonstrates that we have a responsibility to wage that war.
If you only fight terrorism - and that is unfortunately a danger that also exists in Washington - strictly by means of a coalition of the major powers, there is a risk that those powers will misuse that war on terror for their own ends: Moscow will use it against the Chechens and Beijing will use it against Tibet.
That is a successful approach that will not lead to terrorism but will genuinely bring peace and ensure that peace will prevail in the world's most important and most historically precious mountain region, peace that can be a model for the entire world.
Also, Mrs Maes, the problem raised today by these two death sentences reveals changes in the borders made by the Chinese.
Three months ago, there was a sign of hope for some on the return of Kelsang Gyaltsen and Lodi Gyari, the Dalai Lama's envoys who went on an official visit to Peking for the first time in a long while.
Hu Jintao has become the new President, the Secretary General of the Chinese Communist Party.
The result of the so-called dialogue that was undertaken is these two death sentences: those of Tenzin Delek and Lobsang Dhondup.
Having said that, I think that above all we should question ourselves, as members of the European Parliament and as Europeans, on how we are supporting the Tibetan people.
This is an objective for the Tibetans, but also for all free men and women across the world.
Nearly three years ago now, in June 2000, Parliament adopted a resolution inviting the governments of the Member States to recognise the exiled government of Tibet, the Dalai Lama's government.
I believe that is how we can genuinely give power to our Tibetan friends and show our Chinese friends that the rule of law is based on solid foundations of dialogue, and not just on semblances of dialogue, on the crumbs of dialogue that they throw to the Tibetans and to us, the Europeans, to make us believe, as they have been doing for 40 years, that they want dialogue while each time they reject real dialogue and any political solution.
The President of the exiled Tibetan Parliament, Professor Samdhong Rinpoche, has asked for restraint until June.
We are deeply concerned about the death sentence passed on Lobsang Dhondup and Tenzin Delek on 2 December.
You may recall that Mr Delek was on the list of individual cases that we handed to the Chinese authorities under the human rights dialogue between the EU and China.
The Commission wishes to take this opportunity to inform Parliament that the EU troika raised this matter through diplomatic channels with the Chinese authorities on 13 December, at embassy level.
Furthermore, the troika reaffirmed that the EU rejects the death penalty and its use in China in general, referring to the ongoing campaign of 'drastic action'.
By virtue of this prompt intervention on the part of the European Union and because of pressure from the United States and Australia, the executions have so far not been carried out, and the two convicted men have entered appeals.
It has repeatedly called for the initiation of a direct dialogue between Beijing and the Dalai Lama, as this is likely to be the only way to secure a peaceful and lasting solution to the Tibetan question.
Against this background, the Commission is encouraged by the positive news conveyed by the two envoys of the Dalai Lama who visited China in September 2002.
We hope that this will be a first step towards the establishment of a more regular dialogue between Beijing and the Dalai Lama.
Thank you, Commissioner Schreyer.
I therefore request that this should be used throughout the resolution, in the title and in Paragraph 7.
Madam President, I think that we also forgot to ask in item 8 for the resolution to be sent to the Dalai Lama and the exiled Tibetan Government, as is always done with our resolutions.
We believe that equality proceeds from the equal value of every person and from every individual's right to respect for their person and their choices when it comes to personal, family and professional life.
Madam President, as our President already wished us a Happy Christmas at lunchtime today, which may explain why many Members have already inadvertently left, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you as our President for Thursday evening for your excellent chairmanship and to congratulate you.
We wish you, and of course all the staff who have remained with us until this evening, a very Happy Christmas.
I would thank you all and wish you a really merry Christmas and a happy New Year.
