Preparation of the European Council to be held on 10 and 11 December 2009 (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on preparation of the European Council to be held on 10 and 11 December 2009.
Mr President, Mr Barroso, honourable Members, it is wonderful to have this opportunity to have this debate with you ahead of the next meeting of the European Council.
It will, of course, be the second ordinary meeting held during the Swedish Presidency and it will also be the last time that it is led by a rotating presidency.
As you know, the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force on 1 December, but in accordance with the declaration adopted in the European Council in December 2008, the rotating Presidency will continue to preside over the European Council until the Presidency ends at the end of the year.
All the Member States have now ratified the treaty and deposited their instruments of ratification in Rome.
The work involved in getting to this point was long and strenuous, as Parliament is well aware.
As a result of the treaty, we will have better opportunities to get to grips with the important issues that the EU is facing and we can do this in a more democratic, transparent and efficient manner.
Agreement was also reached, following approval from the Commission President, on the appointment of Catherine Ashton as the new High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
The European Council also reached agreement on the appointment of Pierre de Boissieu as Secretary-General of the Council Secretariat.
The work in preparation for the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has continued as detailed by the Presidency in its status report to the European Council in October.
The European External Action Service will be included among these issues.
The report will also contain a road map pointing the way forward for the work in this area.
At the European Council meeting in December, the focus will primarily be on economic and financial issues.
However, it is also important for us to take a long-term view and to meet important challenges in both the medium and the long term.
The EU, the Member States and Europe's central banks have taken numerous measures, for example, guarantee programmes for banks and the European Economic Recovery Plan.
These measures have made a major contribution to increasing financial stability and reducing the effects of the crisis on growth and employment.
It is therefore not yet time to withdraw the support measures that have been taken.
The European Council will review the work that the Council has done with regard to exit strategies.
The Swedish Presidency is seeking agreement on a number of guiding principles with regard to the timing, coordination and sequencing of the phasing out of the support measures.
There is agreement that increased and improved cooperation in relation to financial supervision within the EU is necessary, particularly in view of the experience we have had during the financial crisis.
The proposal for the structure and focus of the work in the Systemic Risk Council was adopted by the EU's finance ministers at the Ecofin meeting on 20 October.
As regards the three 'micro-authorities', the Presidency's aim is to arrive at a general approach for these authorities and hence for the entire supervisory package at the next Ecofin meeting on 2 December so that we can report back to the Council in December.
The package will include a requirement for the plan to be reviewed in three years.
It is therefore imperative that the EU should agree on a new strategy that is able to promote a vision for long-term growth and prosperity.
At the same time, structural weaknesses and the long-term challenges for our economies have become more apparent.
Maintaining and strengthening Europe's competitiveness on the global market, combating climate change and dealing with the challenges as a consequence of an ageing population are demanding tasks for the European Union and its Member States in the medium and long term.
We have raised the question of how we can monitor and follow up the strategy in a better and more effective way, including how we can make use of the benefits of coordination resulting from the interaction with other EU strategies, the Lisbon strategy, for example.
The Integrated Maritime Policy will also be discussed at the European Council meeting.
The Commission has recently submitted its progress report.
I will now turn to another very important item at the European Council meeting, namely the adoption of a new five-year work programme in the area of freedom, security and justice.
The Stockholm Programme is intended to supersede the Hague Programme that is currently in force and which was adopted in 2004.
The vision of the Stockholm Programme is for a safer and more open Europe where the rights of individuals are protected.
The programme is a result of intensive contact and discussions in the Council and with the European Parliament.
My Swedish colleagues, the Minister for Justice, Beatrice Ask, and the Minister for Migration, Tobias Billström, were here yesterday and presented the Stockholm Programme in a very long debate.
Therefore, I will not repeat what they said, but I would like to take the opportunity to emphasise that the Stockholm Programme focuses on specific measures that bring added value to the everyday lives of citizens.
Future work in this area should also be based on a balance between measures aimed at creating a safe and secure Europe and measures aimed at protecting the rights of individuals.
The ambitious work that has been carried out and our future method of working with increased codecision for Parliament should help to provide us with an action plan that is better able to deal with these major challenges.
With regard to climate change, while the European Council meeting is going on, the climate negotiations will, of course, also be taking place in Copenhagen.
These issues are important for Europe and for the future of our entire planet.
Two weeks ago, Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt stood in Parliament in Brussels and presented the outcome of the European Council meeting in October, including the most important elements of the EU's position ahead of the Copenhagen conference.
The Swedish Presidency will put all of its energy into this work.
The top priorities of the Swedish Presidency have been to respond to the demands of climate change and to ensure that the EU retains its leading position ahead of the negotiations in Copenhagen while, at the same time, we are responsible for continuing to address the economic and financial crisis.
These issues will have top priority at the final summit.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, we have, on many occasions, discussed the great opportunities offered by the Lisbon Treaty for the European Union, so let me express once again my satisfaction that when we meet each other next time, we will do so with the Lisbon Treaty already in force.
The appointments made last week, naming Herman Van Rompuy as President of the Council and Catherine Ashton as High Representative and Vice-President of the Commission, are the first steps towards the full implementation of the Lisbon Treaty.
I know that both President Van Rompuy and High Representative Vice-President Baroness Ashton are eager to start putting the Lisbon Treaty to work.
The designation of Herman Van Rompuy was, by consensus, a decision of the Heads of State or Government.
Herman Van Rompuy has earned huge respect as Prime Minister of Belgium.
It is essential that, while every institution has to work within the respect of its own competences and that of other institutions, we all work together for the common European good.
It is an appointment that I supported and approved during the European Council, as it is necessary according to the treaties.
Next month, the European Council gives us the first significant opportunity to show that we are now focused on policy substance, to show that it will make a difference.
First, climate change.
We have led the way in defining how the developing world can make a real contribution to financing the costs of climate change in developing countries.
And it should be explicit that this will be turned into a fully fledged treaty as soon as possible.
That means specific individual numbers on reduction of emissions and a detailed finance package to help developing countries both to develop mitigation programmes and to adapt to climate change.
I am pleased to hear that, following Prime Minister Rasmussen's invitation, already at least 65 or so Heads of State or Government are planning to attend Copenhagen.
The removal of controls at internal borders in the Schengen area allows more than 400 million citizens of 25 countries to travel without border control from the Iberian Peninsula to the Baltic States, from Greece to Finland.
It clarifies what action can be taken and, in particular, it extends the democratic framework for these policies by the full involvement of your Parliament.
It should set the scene for a comprehensive, effective programme of action which brings real change, real benefit for our citizens.
Finally, we must continue to keep the focus on tackling the economic crisis.
We must also start to shape a post-crisis agenda to exploit new sources of growth and find new job opportunities.
To conclude, climate change, freedom, security and justice, and the response to the economic and financial crisis - these are three areas which impact on citizens every day of their lives and three areas where the European Council can show that the Lisbon Treaty has indeed opened a new chapter in the history of the European project.
In order to obtain meaningful results, we must work in partnership - in partnership between the Commission and Parliament, to which I am grateful for consistent support for the policy ambitions put forward by the Commission in these areas; in partnership with the Swedish Presidency of the Council, which I really congratulate for the hard work done; and in partnership with our Danish friends preparing the Copenhagen conference.
Let us work together for the common European good.
I am sure this Parliament, with reinforced powers under the new treaty, will also show its sense of responsibility and its commitment to the Europe of citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are at last.
The Heads of State or Government have chosen Herman Van Rompuy as the first President of the European Council and Catherine Ashton as High Representative.
Thank you to Fredrik Reinfeldt, the last Prime Minister to hold the rotating Presidency of the European Council.
Thank you for having brought about a consensus on the two figures who will bear the heavy burden of carrying out the new functions created by the Treaty of Lisbon.
Today, in this Chamber, I would like to praise the initial statements of President Van Rompuy for whom, I quote, 'the image of the Council will be shaped by its results' and who advocates a step-by-step approach.
It is this method that has taken us from yesterday's conflicts to today's exchanges.
It is this method that has taken us from long waits at the borders of the Schengen area, from fluctuating exchange rates to a stable euro.
I would like to warn you, ladies and gentlemen, against the facile criticisms that we have heard in recent days.
On behalf of the PPE Group, I also congratulate Catherine Ashton, the new High Representative and Vice-President of the 'Barroso I' European Commission.
It is at the end of this process that she will be fully invested with her duties as Vice-President of the 'Barroso II' Commission.
We know that two major topics will dominate the European Council in December.
Everyone knows that the Council will be sitting in the middle of the Copenhagen Summit, which ought not only to result in political objectives, but also in quantifiable commitments.
This first European Council held under the Treaty of Lisbon must enable Europe to play its full role.
I therefore hope that it will be able to use its influence and assert its positions with greater determination than in the past.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, both present and absent, in the last few days following the European Council meeting, we have talked a great deal about people and posts.
Once again, I would like to direct my remarks today at you, Mr Barroso.
We said that, as the second largest group in this House, we wanted the second position in the Commission, in other words, the High Representative who acts as Vice-President of the Commission, to come from our party.
This is because we believe that the Commission, which is not a neutral organisation, but a political body, should reflect the reality of this Parliament.
We also expect the structure of the portfolios that you will establish for the individual commissioners to reflect the content and the challenges which these people are faced with.
In my opinion, this is much more important than the debate about posts and people.
Of course, we are pleased that Cathy Ashton now holds the position of High Representative.
However, much more important than this is the question of which tasks these people will be responsible for carrying out.
However, the question of how we can reduce unemployment, which is currently rising and not falling in Europe, is an important issue.
People are interested in the question of whether we can really still prevent climate change and whether Copenhagen will be a failure or a success.
We are not having sufficient discussions about the fact that, for example, in overcoming climate change and investing in environmentally friendly technology in industry, there is huge potential for job creation, that green technology is a project for the future and that industrial policy and protecting the environment are not mutually exclusive, but can be combined with one another.
The ideas that you have presented here about the structure of the Commission are pointing in the right direction.
This is a job for the High Representative of the European Union.
In this case, we do not need a debate about the allocation of posts, but clear rules for the financial markets in the European Union.
That is much more important. (Applause) This is why I am saying that, yes, Herman Van Rompuy and Cathy Ashton have been elected, but now they need to get on with their jobs and the Commission has to be set up.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I shall not go back to the nominations of last week.
As the President of the Commission said, Belgium is, in fact, a country with an overall consensus, certainly about European matters and about the future of Europe.
So, Mr Barroso, what we hope now is that we have a new Commission as soon as possible.
On priorities, I think that there are three main priorities for the next days and weeks.
First of all, Copenhagen.
For our group, the basic point here is the balance between security and freedom.
It is obvious that we have to protect our citizens against terrorism and organised crime, but maybe, after 9/11, we have put too much focus on security and protection.
I think that the Stockholm Programme - and also the philosophy of your Presidency - has to rebalance that towards respect for fundamental rights and also more openness in society.
The view of our group, the ALDE Group, is that it is more ambitious than the Tampere Programme and the Hague Programme, but with a more important focus on the fundamental rights of the people.
It is good to protect and to organise security, but you have to do it in a balanced way with respect for fundamental rights.
We need a good supervisory body for cross-border financial institutions that would link micro- and macro-supervision and perhaps link it as closely as possible to the European Central Bank - why not? - and, naturally, also to what is happening in the Commission.
In Parliament, we are pushing for more ambitious proposals, but I think the temptation for the moment in the Council is in the opposite direction.
I think there is a majority here in Parliament in favour of going in the direction of a single supervisor.
That is what we need in the future, and I think it is an important message to give to you to give to the Presidency, because there will certainly be a huge discussion on 10 and 11 December when there is the next European Council.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Barroso, you will understand that, as the leader of a group in this House, I am, of course, pleased that we women have succeeded in making the women at the top of the European Union more visible.
However, it is important for us that women are not only taken into account in terms of numbers.
There has been a lot of publicity about the people in the top jobs, Herman Van Rompuy und Baroness Ashton.
The Members of this House are more familiar with Baroness Ashton than they are with Herman Van Rompuy.
The next summit will soon be upon us.
Mr Schulz, I do not think that we are talking too little about Copenhagen.
The environment, social justice and sustainability have always been marginalised in favour of older and, in my opinion, outdated priorities relating to industrial, economic and even research policy.
We do not believe it is a good idea to prepare the Lisbon Strategy and to review it without careful reflection, without self-criticism and without a genuine consultation process, such as the one called for by the trade unions and the Social Platform, because the Lisbon Strategy is very important for all of us and for the perspective of the European Union.
Finally, I would like to look at the Stockholm Programme.
However, my group has the impression that there is an imbalance between freedom and security.
We do not agree with this development and we will be highlighting this using the example of SWIFT.
Mr Barroso, you are attempting to bypass Parliament with this provisional SWIFT agreement, while disregarding the concerns about data protection.
If the European Council is to have a semi-permanent president, it should be someone who takes a low-key but practical approach to building a consensus among the Member States where this is possible and desirable.
These appointments should be an opportunity to put a stop, once and for all, to the nightmare vision of an ever more centralised and bureaucratic European foreign and security policy, in favour of one that is based on willing cooperation amongst our Member States.
The appointment of Baroness Ashton, in particular, as a currently serving Commissioner must have been a source of particular happiness for President Barroso, though this must not afford an opportunity for the Commission to assume greater power in its hands rather than in the hands of the democratic institutions of Europe.
But having spent a decade obsessed with its own institutions, the European Union now needs to get back to business.
It is often said that the citizens of our Member States do not understand Europe, and, if they did, it would be more popular.
Our citizens can see that our economies are in crisis, that unemployment is rising, that businesses are finding it harder to generate growth, that climate change is getting worse and that other parts of the world are becoming increasingly and dramatically more competitive.
I hope that the appointments last week can draw a line under these years of introspection.
I admit that the words from the Swedish Presidency and from President Barroso are encouraging in that respect.
David Cameron should be ashamed of himself.
What I would like to make very clear is I am not ashamed of anything at all that the leader of the Conservative Party is saying or doing and, in particular, it is clear to all of us that we have always indicated that, if the Lisbon Treaty had not been ratified, we would have wanted it to be put to the British people.
I think that those who talk about unreal objectives in relation to Europe, those who talk in an extreme and obsessive manner, will do no good to the very people that I have been talking about in my speech - the citizens, not only of Europe, but the citizens of my country, who want prosperity, who want certainty in their lives and the future.
This institutional navel-gazing occurs with these people just as much as it does with any of the institutions of Europe.
Mr President, I would like to welcome the two candidates on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group.
We assume that the two candidates for the high offices will not only focus on the content of their responsibilities, but will also develop a cooperative approach to Parliament.
Four million jobs were lost throughout Europe as a result of the crisis.
However, growing unemployment and poverty are the first signs of even greater inequality of opportunity which will have a major impact on educational opportunities.
The question that arises is whether the Heads of State or Government will find ways out of the crisis which combine the European concept of integration with social progress and which have a real impact for the citizens of Europe.
I have just three observations to make about this.
However, we urgently need concrete proposals describing how all of this will be implemented.
Thirdly, I would like to emphasise once again that the Council must give a clear signal after Copenhagen that a binding climate change agreement is needed.
I guess the answer can only be Mr Barroso, because he is the only one that anybody in the world has ever heard of and is probably the big winner out of these posts.
And we have a new president of Europe, Herman Van Rompuy.
And yet he is going to be paid a salary that is bigger than Obama's, which tells you all you need to know about this European political class and how they look after themselves.
Even the Prime Minister was talking about Baroness 'Ashdown' as opposed to Ashton.
She married well: she married an adviser, friend and supporter of Tony Blair and got put in the House of Lords.
So here she is: never stood for public office, never had a proper job, and here she gets one of the top jobs in the Union.
We will have the bland leading the bland, but I am not celebrating because they will press on with political union and, whilst our leaders may have saved face for the moment for themselves on the international stage, they have all betrayed their national democracies.
We are about to get an avalanche of new laws because of this Lisbon Treaty and there is no question in my mind that there has to be a full, free, fair referendum in the United Kingdom to decide whether we stay part of this Union or not.
Mr President, Mr Farage has said that those people who were elected last week are not people that the traffic will stop for.
And, Mr Farage, I would like to quote a Hungarian saying to you.
That is the point that I am making, and, in the case of Baroness Ashton, she has never been elected to public office in her entire life.
The second urgent crisis, in other words, the subsidy race for the failing car manufacturer Opel, is an equally explosive issue.
Perhaps once the Treaty of Lisbon finally enters into force on 1 December, the British domestic policy debate can also be left outside this Chamber.
The EU needs modern ground rules and the Treaty of Lisbon will provide us with them.
In the forthcoming period leading up to the European Summit, there are three main issues on which the Swedish Presidency hopes to make progress together with you and with the help of the Commission.
On the economic issues, even though things are looking brighter on the financial markets, we are facing high levels of unemployment in many countries and this will be a distinctive feature of our economies for many years to come.
The problem that we have had up to now with financial supervision is that it has focused too much on individual companies and too little on the financial system as a whole.
Other details of this matter will be discussed at the Ecofin meeting on 2 December, when I hope that we will make further progress.
Finally, with regard to the Stockholm Programme: this is a very important decision that we will also have to live with for a long time to come and over which the European Parliament will have a very great deal of influence in future.
I hope that we can produce a long-term programme to deal with these issues within the Stockholm Programme.
It also has to do with the Stockholm Programme.
The SWIFT Programme is, indeed, a very valuable instrument for Member States in their fight against terrorism.
We are talking about actual cases.
If the interim agreement is adopted before 1 December and the legal basis is changed, it will avoid a security gap and a serious blow to European Union-United States relations in this area.
In the recent meeting we had, involving the European Union and President Obama, the first issue he raised was the cooperation on the fight against terrorism between the United States and Europe.
He gave us the names of concrete countries in Europe that escaped terrorist attacks recently because of the cooperation in this matter between us and them.
More than 5 450 cases under the Terrorist Finance Tracking Programme have been passed to date to European governments, with over 100 new generated leads provided to European countries from January to September this year.
In early 2009, this system was used to identify the financial activity of a Europe-based al-Qaeda individual who played a role in the planning of an alleged attack on aircraft.
They subsequently confessed to these activities.
So, this system has already saved many lives in Europe and elsewhere.
I fully agree that the whole fight against terrorism has to be done in the full respect of fundamental rights and guarantees of our open, free societies.
So, in early 2010, we will come with a new basis respecting the Lisbon Treaty that will, of course, give Parliament all the capacity to act in this matter because we want Parliament to also be at the forefront of this action against terrorism and for security, by fully respecting, of course, our fundamental rights and our legal guarantees.
I think this is an agenda where we also have to do something in Europe.
I want to use this opportunity to show our commitment to this very important agenda which is also in our European society. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when commenting on the appointments made for the opening of the new European Union season, the international press has very often used terms such as 'candidates who are not up to the job' or 'unsatisfactory candidates'.
I therefore wonder what the Council's rationale was when it chose these individuals.
Choosing an outgoing member of the European Commission for the role of European Foreign Minister sends out a clear message: it is saying that the intention is to conduct a Community foreign policy and not a foreign policy that adheres to the philosophies of any one nation in particular.
In other words, she adopts a Community approach to foreign policy matters that is not linked to the particular viewpoint of one nation.
I believe that what we are asking of the President of the European Council, who will remain in office for two and a half years, is not to shout louder than others or to assert his authority more than others but to persuade others to speak with one voice.
We will be able to observe the efficiency and effectiveness of this choice when we see them in action, but I call on everyone to strongly support their work because otherwise, we really will have wasted the best opportunity of our lives. (ES) Mr President, I took the floor yesterday in plenary to highlight the importance of the Stockholm Programme, which is on the agenda for the European Council on 10 December.
I think now is the right time to emphasise the significance of this matter from a constitutional point of view, on the agenda for the European Council to be held on 10 and 11 December.
This means we will have to work much harder.
I would like to thank Cecilia Malmström, the Swedish Presidency and the entire team who have all worked very hard.
In this context, I would like to talk briefly about two points which formed the subject of this debate.
Mr Barroso, you have just said that you want to work in tandem with Herman Van Rompuy.
There is, though, one thing that I would like to say quite clearly: the Council President is not responsible to the European Parliament nor to any other parliament.
This means that you in your role of Commission President are the legitimate democratic institution and the legitimate democratic president of Europe.
My second point is that the representative of the Council said that Cathy Ashton would take up both the office of High Representative and the office of Vice-President of the Commission on 1 December 2009.
Firstly, it is only one office - High Representative, Vice-President of the Commission - and secondly, she cannot take up office without the consent of Parliament.
From 1 December, the first Barroso Commission is in a legal no-man's-land between the end of the Treaty of Nice and the beginning of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Cathy Ashton will only fully take up office after receiving the consent of Parliament at the end of January 2010.
And many regional governments, like the government in Wales, have been leading the way in adopting radical policies to combat climate change.
In addition, I wish all of us a positive and, above all, a forward-looking outcome. (EL) Mr President, the next Council will face a major issue, the issue of enlargement.
We, both Cyprus and my party - and I wish to say this very clearly before the European Parliament - are absolutely in favour of Turkey's accession to the European Union.
However, we shall not tire ourselves repeating that this accession cannot happen if Turkey fails to deliver, like all the other countries which have acceded, on all the commitments it has made to Cyprus and to the European Union.
Talks are under way in Cyprus between the two leaders and, if a solution is achieved, it will be a symbol of victory for the entire European Union.
This victory will encourage the European Union to take up its place in the modern world.
However, we must put the truth back on the table and the truth is that Turkey is occupying half of Cyprus with 40 000 troops supposedly protecting 80 000 Turkish Cypriots.
To close, I should like to point out that, while supporting the accession of Turkey, Cyprus cannot consent to the opening of the energy chapter until Turkey has honoured its commitments towards the European Union and Cyprus and until it has eliminated the obstacles it is placing on the Republic of Cyprus in its efforts to enlarge its economic area. (HU) There have been two important personnel decisions made very recently in keeping with the Treaty of Lisbon.
These will obviously depend on how charismatic and determined the person ending up in this post is.
However, what we say is that it has remained in the hands of the head of an empire centrally controlling the lives of 500 million people.
I am almost confident that the reason why President Barroso has just stepped out was to make a telephone call on this matter. (EL) Mr President, it is important that the Treaty of Lisbon has finally entered into force.
Of course, European citizens have been watching for ten years as the European Union has failed to find ways of ensuring the institutions work effectively following enlargement with the accession of the twelve new Member States.
We have a Council President - and everyone assures us that this is a person who will seek consent and agreement - and we also have a High Representative for foreign policy.
Cooperation between the European Commission and the European Parliament is hugely important here.
Parliament's role has been strengthened but, in order for it to be strengthened in essence and for European citizens to perceive this, the European Commission urgently needs to raise questions, given that it has the initiative in the European Council.
Clearly, there will be questions at the December Council about enlargement, but neither the Minister nor the President of the Commission has given us any details; they have only spoken to us in general about other matters.
Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to return to the debate that has been taking place in our institutions since these appointments were announced.
Our duty is to use all our new parliamentary prerogatives to influence the policies that will result from the new powers guaranteed to us under the Treaty of Lisbon.
I also support the proposal of Mrs Harms, who has suggested a meeting between the new President and the groups as a whole.
Europeans expected transparency, democracy and clarity in the debate and, basically, what they got was obscurity and last-minute negotiations held behind the closed doors of a European Council.
This must not be repeated, and I believe it will be up to our Parliament to propose new procedures and new rules for the future.
Lastly, with regard to the economic and social situation, we must work on establishing a new economic model that gives priority to employment, social progress and the long term, in other words, sustainability in all its forms.
We therefore need supervision and regulation, a policy that is more advantageous to small and medium-sized enterprises, and common thinking on a tax system that favours the long term over the short term. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what position are we in now in the run-up to this summit in Europe?
Everything will be fine when we agree on the major tasks facing Europe.
In Europe 20 years ago, we brought down the Iron Curtain and it seems to me significant that it was the people, the citizens, who achieved that and not the armed forces, the governments or the secret service.
I believe that in future, too, we will only be able to build Europe together with the citizens.
For example, many people still believe that we can play off freedom and security against one another, although we know that freedom is only effective when we protect it.
However, this protection must not be at the expense of our fundamental rights and must not lead to the creation of a surveillance state, given the example of SWIFT and other issues.
However, only a democratic Europe can be successful in the long term.
We are now in the run-up to Stockholm and if we do not do whatever is possible there, regardless of the cost - and many people are prepared to spend hundreds of millions on bailing out the banks, but are tight-fisted about the climate - if we do not act quickly and consistently, then what applies to me as a speaker now will also be true of the human race.
However, as we are well aware, effectiveness and democracy do not always go in the same direction, especially when there is a lack of coordination between the institutions and relations with citizens.
There is no doubt that it is more democratic to find an appropriate way for European citizens to be involved in the election of a president of the Council so that the European Union can really get closer to its citizens.
As far as the forthcoming Council meeting on 10 and 11 December is concerned, I greatly hope that an ambitious programme of institutional matters relating to the Treaty of Lisbon will be adopted at it.
I would like to know in particular what the Council's view is of the future European Financial Supervisory Authorities, which should reduce in the future the risk of financial misdemeanours, which basically contributed to the current crisis.
With regard to the Stockholm Strategy, I would also like the Schengen Area to be expanded, of course, to include Bulgaria and Romania as soon as possible.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that I welcome the new appointment of Mr Van Rompuy and I am particularly proud that we have an extremely able and talented British woman in Cathy Ashton as the first High Representative.
In my region, the Conservatives are represented by Roger Helmer, who describes man-made climate change as a myth.
We need to act, but fighting this alone will not work.
We need action at all levels, which involves reducing the amount of carbon we produce to at least 2%.
Any funding agreed at Copenhagen needs to deal specifically with the effects of climate change on the developing world and should not replace other valuable aid flows.
Next time, please can we have a process where all Member States nominate a woman and a man as candidates, so that we do not have the last-minute rush.
The new Stockholm Programme is a good start, much more citizen-centric than any of its predecessors, but we must continue to protect our citizens' rights in giving them protection but also making sure that their daily lives are easier across Europe. (PL) Mr President, the forthcoming European Council Summit is still going to be dominated by the recent elections of the President of the Council and the head of EU diplomacy.
For a long time, we have been told that the new Lisbon Treaty will improve the work of the EU, but now, at the outset, it turns out to be evoking conflicts over personnel.
Those are issues that are now ahead of us and are a way of improving the strength of the European Union in a new world, where we need to be strong and to lead as regards ideas and values.
This is important, and I say this to the President of the Commission and to all Commissioners: we need to ensure that we have a competitive European economy in order to have a social Europe. (HU) Mr President, Mrs Wallström, the Treaty of Lisbon's ratification process is now over, and Heads of State or Government have elected Commissioner Catherine Ashton as the EU's first Foreign Minister, although this is not her official title.
When national quotas are being assigned to Member States, consideration must be given to the fact that the new Member States are essentially barely represented in these two Directorates-General.
This is in our common interest.
I urge the European Commission and Council as well to look closely at this aspect.
By our reasoning, the extraordinary European Council on 19 November 2009 would not have betrayed the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon by appointing the President of the Council and the High Representative only after the new treaty came into force.
The entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty is one such occasion that will go down in history and which our children and future generations will eventually study and learn about.
However, on occasions such as this, we must also reflect upon the meaning of such an historical moment.
Instead, we are now going to be in a better position to face up to the realities that Europe has to deal with, such as the economic situation, employment, climate change and immigration.
The second reflection concerns Parliament's role.
This parliament was born fifty years ago, and its members were appointed by national parliaments.
This Parliament shall be committed to guarding the citizens' interests in the laws we adopt.
This highly important area can be the key to a successful and sustainable Europe and, in my opinion, has been seriously neglected in recent months.
The second problem arises from the economic crisis.
In fact, the countries outside the euro area have suffered the most from the dramatic decrease in investments and rising unemployment.
As you know, President, my country, Estonia, is making determined efforts to join the euro area by 2011.
The recent acknowledgement of Estonia's efforts by the OECD and Commissioner Almunia are encouraging signs that we are on the right path. (SL) In December, the European Council will address very important issues.
This will be the first Council meeting after the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty and my colleagues in this House have already spoken about what those issues will be.
Personally, I would like to draw your attention to one very important issue that sometimes tends to be overlooked but which concerns the stability of Europe and the European Union as a whole: and that is the issue of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM).
The FYROM has been a candidate country for the past four years and, over the past 18 years, it has been in a virtual frozen conflict with Greece, its southerly neighbour and a long-standing member of the European Union.
This means we could be said to have a frozen conflict in the heart of Europe.
In 2009, the FYROM made significant progress.
It has received a positive report from the Commission, which recommended that the Council give this country the go-ahead to commence negotiations on fully-fledged membership.
On 20 December, it will have its visa requirement lifted and, a short while ago, we had elections in Greece.
I call on the representatives of the Council and the Commission, on the one hand, and on the Member States, on the other, to lend support to Prime Ministers Papandreou and Gruevski, these courageous two men, so that they can finally find a solution and so that the FYROM can join the large family that is Europe. (PL) Mr President, the European Council to be held on 11 and 12 December will sum up a fruitful Swedish Presidency.
It also introduces new institutions, such as President of the European Council and High Representative for Foreign Policy.
We know that these appointments have caused discussion and controversy, including here in this Chamber.
We wish the nominees well, but we would like to say that the real test will be, amongst others, the quality of Eastern policy and the process of setting up the European External Action Service.
The Copenhagen Climate Summit is to approve, among other things, the ambitious objectives which have been put forward by the European Union.
We would also like appointment of the new European Commission to be done with respect for the European Parliament and its rights, as well as implementation of the new role for national parliaments while preserving the principle of subsidiarity, and discussion of how to build Europe after Lisbon.
Some previous speakers have criticised both the President and the High Representative, which I consider quite inappropriate.
I think, though, that now we should go on with the essential work and stop occupying our time with personalities.
The second important point I wish to talk about is dealing with the financial crisis, which I believe the Council has made a priority.
This is also true for my country, Estonia, because for us, the most obvious aim is to secure new economic growth in order to become an enfranchised member of the euro area, which we are very close to doing, as there is a large possibility that we will fulfil the Maastricht criteria.
I wish Mr Herman Van Rompuy, the first President of the Council, every success.
We have quite similar views on how we should act in unity, while having regard to our diversity.
The European Union's power and success hitherto stem from two key ideas of Europe's founding fathers: the first being respect for human dignity and the second cooperation.
Today, we need to ask ourselves once again in all seriousness what it means to respect human dignity and what it means to put the human person at the centre of our concerns.
This question is very closely linked to the Stockholm Programme.
However, the criticism needs to be dealt with, for many are now concluding that the Member States want to see the EU function merely as an intergovernmental coordinating body, rather than a separate political level with the task of finding common solutions to major challenges such as growth, jobs, peace and the environment.
We must provide the resources necessary to be able to back up what we are saying in the new Lisbon strategy with a view to 2020.
As regards Baroness Ashton, it has been said she was never elected to office and that is true, but that in itself does not reflect one way or another on her qualities as a person or as an effective politician.
It is, in fact, time to turn the page, to discuss policies and to discuss the challenges facing the European Union.
It is time to congratulate the Council on its concern and, in particular, the Swedish Presidency.
However, it is also a time when there have been discrepancies between what is said by political leaders and what has been said by the governors of the central banks, at both national and European levels.
The route has to be that of competitiveness, and the message of this concept has to be clear: more competitiveness, more stimulus, more growth, more support for companies, more Europe to support growth and jobs. (HU) Mr President, the Copenhagen conference features as the fourth item on the European Council's agenda.
There are two important controversial points preventing the European Union from reaching a united stance on this.
The Commission and some of the old EU Member States want to ban the sale of quotas after 2012.
I would also like to call on my fellow Members from Bulgaria, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the Baltic States, irrespective of party affiliation, to stick just as resolutely themselves to this viewpoint. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to offer you, Mrs Malmström, my sincere congratulations on moving, so to speak, from Parliament into government and from government into the European Commission.
This quantum leap, this change, this new chapter must be noticeable at the first summit.
The debate about the institutions is over and the debate about staffing as well, I hope.
I am expecting this summit to generate a new dynamic, a new sense of responsibility and a more serious approach to handling different topics.
It is essential for us to know how much money we have to spend on our policies.
So I look to the Commission, which ought not to take sides, but to establish a political alliance with the European Parliament so that the alliance of the peoples ensures that we can dream of what we desire for this European Union, the Union of peoples. (DE) Mr President, I agree with the majority of the previous speakers that the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon represents a new historic phase in European integration.
However, the people, the citizens throughout Europe are not always in the mood to celebrate when they think about it.
Many people fear that the small EU Member States, for example, my home country of Austria, will have less influence, because the large Member States will be able to decide everything as a result of the new voting methods.
People also have the feeling that the choice of the people to fill the top positions in the European Union was based on the weakest and lowest common denominator.
However, people realised that the process did not involve democratic choice.
However, a worrying situation remains, that of the explosion in unemployment, and we must therefore continue to be extremely cautious.
Moreover, the Commission, in a report dated 23 November, states that the financial crisis wiped out more than 4 million jobs between the second quarter of 2008 and mid-2009.
I believe that, from now on, the debate must focus on adapting this Lisbon Strategy to this confused period.
Our fellow citizens expect Europe - and we see it every day on the ground - to provide solutions to the employment crisis.
However, my observation and my disappointment are akin to those of my colleague, Mr Audy, in the face of an almost empty Chamber, in the face of an extremely worrying situation for our fellow European citizens. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I wish to thank the Swedish Presidency for the great efforts it has made during these months, which have led, amongst other things, to the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Quite apart from any debate over the qualities of the individuals chosen, the appointments made in recent days have certainly shown that the appointment procedures are far removed from the principles of transparency and responsibility in respect of its citizens that the European Union upholds.
This House must undertake to ensure its greater future involvement in negotiations, which cannot and must not be conducted in secret by the States within the Council.
Lastly, I hope that we will be able to conclude 2009 by reaching an ambitious agreement at the Copenhagen conference, where the European Union must speak with one voice to express its opinion on climate change. (PL) Mr President, the most important work of the Swedish Presidency was, more than anything, the Lisbon Treaty, which opens up new possibilities for Europe.
Secondly, we need to adopt a plan for economic renewal.
We need to remember, not only about help for the banks, but also about help for ordinary people, especially in the area of limiting unemployment.
A certain kind of balance between these important values is essential here.
Finally, development of the Baltic Sea region requires greater cooperation of the Member States in the region, and Sweden has done a great deal in this area. (RO) I want to begin by congratulating the Swedish Presidency for the way in which it has made the preparations for the transition to the Treaty of Lisbon.
I believe that the Council in December must work on finding solutions aimed at tackling the two-fold challenge Europe is facing: the economic crisis and climate change.
Naturally, we also support the negotiations between Turkey and Cyprus and the talks that are being held on the island to find a solution to its division.
There will also be a debate on enlargement in respect of Turkey and other candidate countries this afternoon with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Carl Bildt, when Members will have the opportunity to ask questions about this and other issues.
I would, once again, like to thank the European Parliament for the support it has shown to the Swedish Presidency with regard to this matter.
It will be a very important factor in being able to tackle the environmental problems in the region, but also in increasing cooperation for prosperity, innovation and security, among other things.
The European External Action Service is one of the biggest and most important changes resulting from the Treaty of Lisbon.
At the summit in October, the European Council approved a general framework for this Service.
Mrs Ashton will now continue to work on this framework together with the European Parliament and will submit a final proposal by April next year at the latest.
The External Action Service will, of course, be phased in gradually and it is important for this to be carried out in a competent and constructive manner.
The European Parliament will have the opportunity to discuss the form that this will take.
Eight years after Laeken, we are now on the threshold of a new treaty.
It is an historic moment, the start of a new era for the European Union.
We can now put the institutional questions behind us to a certain extent and concentrate on the major political challenges that we know the citizens of Europe - because it is, of course, the citizens' Europe that we are all fighting for - are concerned about.
Many of these issues will be discussed at the European Council meeting in December.
With regard to the climate - the key issue for our generation - the European Council meeting will be held at the same time as the climate meeting in Copenhagen, and the summit will give us the opportunity, where necessary, to fine-tune our negotiation position in Copenhagen.
Prime Minister Reinfeldt will be here for the December sitting and will then report the outcome of the summit and also provide a general summary of the Swedish Presidency.
I hope that, in the future, Member States and governments will nominate both a man and a woman.
Let me also comment on the appointments of a new High Representative and a new Council President.
Mrs Cathy Ashton was nominated to the Commission with the full confidence of the UK Government.
She was actually voted for here in the Parliament a year ago with a very large majority - with 538 votes, if I am correct.
She was appointed unanimously by 27 Heads of State or Government, so I think she has all the legitimacy to fulfil her job and to gain the respect of the European Union's foreign partners.
This is firstly because the new Lisbon Treaty will contain provisions that require a new institutional set-up, so it will also have a good basis for decisions on the budget.
Secondly, the new Commission will have to decide on the political priorities and then put its money where its mouth is in order to actually have the budget to accompany the political priorities.
I would say that is an important innovation and an opportunity for the next Commission.
What the Commission can say is that a proposal for the budget review will come early next year and will be the immediate task for the next Commission.
The adoption of the Stockholm Programme coincides with the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, where the European Parliament will have a crucial role in the development of these policies.
On climate change, I can hear that there is a common view here on the active role that the European Union should play in Copenhagen and from now on.
So, again, thank you very much for the debate.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the forthcoming European Council meeting, Member States are expected to agree on the main basic principles being represented at the Copenhagen climate conference.
I think that it is important that the issue of energy efficiency does not get sidetracked by emission quotas and the financial support being granted to developing countries.
What this means to me is that, starting from now, European institutions alongside Member States must make progress towards abolishing the borders inside the EU, as citizens continue to face administrative and legal obstacles which seem to prevent them from exercising their right to live and work in the Member State of their choice.
Improving mobility within the EU, in a common area of freedom, rights and obligations, entails consolidation of the Schengen Area and, as a result, the need to integrate the remaining Member States as soon as possible.
Furthermore, this also involves good management of the EU's external borders, which must be performed in as consistent a manner as possible.
Unfortunately, the directive's progress in the Council has been very sluggish, and it has met with considerable opposition from some Member States.
The European Union's value base is structured around a respect for the principles of human rights and equality.
