Having threatened to reject the original Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation Instrument (DCECI), as it was called, which sought to take away codecision powers by changing the legal base from Article 179 to Article 181a and to include developed countries and expenditure on non-development issues in a development instrument, we have negotiated with the Council and the Commission an instrument which few thought possible 12 months ago, one that will streamline EU activities for the developing world while maintaining accountability and transparency.
I think it is a very good outcome for us: Parliament has gained, insofar as we have maintained codecision under Article 179, which is a very important principle to us.
A Commission declaration attached to the new DCI will contain, also for the first time, the benchmark that the Committee on Development has been using since 2003 to promote increased focus on the key MDG sectors of basic education and basic health, and the Commission has never before accepted the Committee's 20% benchmark for these sectors, which has been accepted on this occasion.
But it shows that, when Parliament stands together, when the different groups do not allow themselves to be divided and are determined not to give away the powers of this House, we can, with the other institutions, come up with a very good instrument and one that ensures that the prerogatives of this House are protected.
rapporteur. - Mr President, before turning to my own report, let me congratulate Mr Mitchell on his.
It expands on the existing programmes, firstly in terms of geographical areas: the existing programmes cover just six countries, this new instrument will cover 17 countries.
It is expanded in terms of objectives and, as one would hope with both the objectives and the geographical area being expanded, it is also expanded in terms of its budget.
First, given that the scope of the programmes has expanded from 6 to 17 countries, we have insisted that there is room for differentiation within the programme - a one-size-fits-all approach would simply not work in a programme like this.
I am glad to say that the Commission has gone along with the idea that the programme should be country-specific, rather than a general programme for 17 countries.
We have also tabled amendments to ensure that this programme is complementary to the other instruments that we will be adopting either today or at a later stage.
I am also pleased to say that, despite this being only a consultation and not a codecision matter, unlike Mr Mitchell's report, the Council has agreed to attach the two interinstitutional agreements on budgetary discipline and democratic scrutiny.
It has also agreed that Parliament should be more involved in this programme than originally envisaged and has accepted that, if the scope of the programme is altered, either geographically or in terms of its objectives, Parliament will be fully consulted.
I must say I feel honoured that I represent the Commission in this part-session, as we are now close to concluding negotiations on the four remaining instruments for the delivery of external spending, for the future period from 2007 to 2013.
These efforts culminated in a successful trialogue in June 2006 when an overall agreement was reached on the architecture of the external financing instruments.
In total four of the seven new instruments are now co-decided.
The compromise as reflected in the negotiated common position of the Council represents a finely balanced solution.
This review should be carried out in 2009.
In response to the letter sent by the chair of the Committee on Development, Mrs Morgantini, I am pleased to confirm that this review date will also apply to the development cooperation instrument.
It is very important to decide whether this instrument should be reviewed during the lifetime of this Parliament or after the European elections of 2009 when new Members come in.
The same applies to our campaigns involving health workers in an effort to double spending in basic health care.
With this new financing instrument, Europe, with its Member States, can now make a difference in Africa.
There are still more than 45 million children who have no access to schooling and millions of patients, especially girls, who have to go without basic health care.
This will put an end to the fight I, together with my group, have put up from the moment I took my seat as an MEP in 1999.
This is why we do not accept that the programming stage for the period up to 2008 should already be completed.
Consultations with civil organisations and parliaments over there and NGOs and our Parliament over here must be done in accordance with the new agreements.
Fortunately, with a letter dated 8 December, the Commission asserted its willingness to respect the thematic programming arrangement for 2007.
It would be good if the Commissioner were to confirm this, and by doing so, put the mind at rest of the 23 NGOs that will be presenting President Barroso with an urgent note on this matter this weekend.
Today in a second reading we are discussing a differently-named document concerning a European Parliament and European Commission Regulation defining a financing instrument for cooperation that supports development.
The document submitted for a second reading is really a compromise European Parliament, European Council and European Commission document, drafted in tripartite negotiations.
The Regulation on Financing Instrument for Development Cooperation replaced 16 existing pieces of legislation, which is a good step towards improving and simplifying EU legislation.
I think it makes a great deal of sense to combine the EU's aid options - which have hitherto been highly chaotic - in a single instrument, but this must not have the consequence of important matters simply being dropped.
I believe that this sends a very important message in response to calls - which I regard as wrong-headed - for the European Union, in future, to be less exacting in its political criteria in terms of the war on poverty and the advancement of development.
My proposals would obviously not solve all the problems in the world, but I believe that they would be a good start. (SK) First of all I would like to state that in my opinion both economic and development cooperation should be included in a single financial instrument underpinned by a double legal basis, namely Articles 179 and 181(a).
However, I respect the conclusions of the trilateral meetings which resulted in the original financial instrument being divided into economic and development cooperation.
In my amendments to the report, I have highlighted the need for strengthening the role of the European Parliament.
Finally, Commissioner, I would like to express my admiration for your work. (NL) Mr President, since development cooperation has its own Commissioner, its own budget, and its own committee in the European Parliament, and since this House has codecision powers in this area, it has been an important sphere of activity since the beginning of European cooperation.
The European Union is right to feel responsible for contributing to peace and prosperity in countries outside of the Union.
The upshot is that a separate development instrument will in any event remain in place, with codecision and with Article 179 as its only legal basis.
I hope that we can count on the Commission's promised cooperation and openness in this matter. (ES) Mr President, this debate is important because we are going to approve the instrument that will serve as a legal basis for using the resources that the European Union allocates to development cooperation and humanitarian action.
To conclude, I believe that our Parliament will have no problem in adopting this report and in adopting it unamended.
I will not waste your time by discussing these amendments, which are certainly out of touch and backward-looking and absurd in every way. (PL) Mr President, the idea of the European Union providing aid to nations and countries in need is worthy of our support.
However, using cooperation policy as a tool for forcing countries in need to adopt solutions applied in the European Union as a condition for providing aid is to put unlawful pressure on these nations and goes against the idea of solidarity.
Mr President, I rise to congratulate a number of my colleagues in the Committee on Development, and the rapporteur, Gay Mitchell, in particular, as well as my fellow coordinator, Mrs Martens, and all coordinators of political groups, for having conducted this matter over a period of two years to produce this result.
We must connect with our people, with our constituents, with our voters.
I hope that this report will be adopted without amendment. (ET) The financial instrument for development cooperation involves a very fragile compromise between the commission, the Council and Parliament.
The discussion regarding the institution of the said financial instrument is part of a wider problem that concerns primarily the harmonisation of the European Union's actions in foro interno, in foro externo and secondarily the cohesion of the European Union's entire foreign activity, whether political, financial or commercial.
I have to say, though, that I strongly oppose the amendments put forward by Mr Mitchell on recital 18, Article 5 and Article 12.
These issues have been debated ad nauseam by this House and by most national parliaments and the outcome is always the same in this Parliament.
In recent years, the world has been tragically hit by disasters such as tsunamis, earthquakes in Pakistan and the recent flooding in Bangladesh.
The United Nations fund CERF was designed to fund and provide a rapid response to any sudden global emergencies and to provide critical funding which has already been put in place by international donors.
In the first five months of this year, CERF has provided EUR 200 million to more than 320 projects in 26 countries.
However, ECHO has refused to contribute to CERF to date, arguing that it has its own rapid funding mechanism for swift and even-handed funding in emergencies.
It becomes an even more complex matter in a Union of 25 Member States, all of which have their own different traditions.
The respective provisions on the Development Cooperation Instrument reflect a balanced compromise, which most likely would not be improved by regulating the issue of sexual and reproductive health in a separate regulation.
Reducing more than 40 different legislative instruments to seven policy-driven instruments has been difficult but I believe that in the end it has been a rewarding challenge.
