Use of depleted uranium in Bosnia and Kosovo (Balkan syndrome) The next item is the Council and Commission declarations on the use of depleted uranium in Bosnia and Kosovo.
UNEP has been working for some time on a report on the toxicological and radiological consequences of the use of depleted uranium in the Balkans.
We welcome this report, together with the report which the World Health Organisation (WHO) is at present in the process of compiling on the same subject.
The EU countries which take part in these missions do so on the basis of national decisions.
The populations of Kosovo, Yugoslavia and other war-torn countries in the Balkans have been sorely tried, with tragic and long-term consequences.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply grateful to you for giving me the opportunity to speak on a matter which I believe, as I am sure you will agree, rightly deserves to be dealt with as a matter of top priority by Parliament.
It is only right that we should be concerned for the health of our military personnel, of the citizens of the Balkans and of those working for Community institutions, non-governmental institutions, international organisations and Member State organisations operating in the area.
I should first like to reiterate my personal commitment and the commitment of all Members of Council to this region, namely the Balkans.
I am sure they will make every effort to help clarify the situation.
It was also agreed to consult more closely with the countries in the region.
Furthermore, as you are aware, NATO members reiterated their view that at that time there was no evidence to suggest that the use of the weapons in question constituted a significant risk for the armed forces of the countries involved, or for the civilian population of the Balkans.
As you know ladies and gentlemen, NATO' s Medical Committee held its first meeting on Monday 15 January, and the newly established group for the exchange of information met for the first time yesterday.
Together with Mr Persson, Prime Minister and President of Council, Union Foreign Ministers will also deal with the matter at the first meeting of the General Affairs Council on 22 January.
I should, however, state that to date, the Council has not received a single scientific report establishing a link between these illnesses and the use of depleted uranium weapons.
I should mention that since I was called to appear before the House, that is, in the last few days and hours, some countries have submitted scientific reports.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the European Union is doing, wants to go on doing and will continue to do, in that spirit of transparency and good cooperation the Presidency-in-Office mentioned earlier.
And I should like to remind you... (Protests and applause) with all due respect and in a spirit of fellowship, that the House later adopted important resolutions on the situation in Kosovo.
As I have said in all sincerity, no link has so far emerged between the facts and the consequences.
Madam President, before I turn to the specific question of depleted uranium, let me first put the issue in context by saying a word about the environmental situation in the Balkans and what the European Commission has been doing to tackle it.
In June 1999, a report conducted for the Commission by the Regional Environment Centre in Budapest gave a preliminary assessment of the environmental effects of the conflict in the Balkan region.
In October 1999, the United Nations Balkans Task Force then provided its assessment of the environmental damage arising as a result of the Kosovo conflict.
In our efforts to tackle the health and environmental situation in the Balkans, the Commission has established a twin-track approach.
Our longer-term assistance is designed to embed a process of sustainable environmental protection in the countries in the region, all of which are potential candidate members of the Union.
This provides a framework in which environmental actions can be pursued at regional level in the Balkans.
By bringing together the various bilateral donors and the countries in the region, we are providing a focus for the coordination of otherwise disparate and overlapping bilateral actions.
To help launch the Regional Environmental Reconstruction Programme the Commission is currently funding actions to the value of EUR 5m.
Our contribution reflects the balance between setting the basis for long-term environmental protection and urgent remedial action.
Let me now come to the specific issue of depleted uranium and the public concern about the possible health risks associated with the use of depleted uranium weapons in Kosovo and Bosnia for the local populations, as well as the international personnel serving, or who have served, in the region.
Our watchword must be "openness".
Uranium itself, as you know, is a radioactive and toxic element that occurs in several minerals.
We expect that the results of their examinations will be known in March this year.
We have used existing structures to convene a meeting of an independent group of experts under the Euratom Treaty to give an opinion on the possible health consequences in general of exposure to depleted uranium.
The Commission will, of course, invite Member States and international authorities to share information on their findings and approaches and to discuss any proposed follow-up actions resulting from the opinion provided by the independent scientific experts.
The Commission confirms its commitment to strengthening our medium and long-term support to improve the environmental and human health situation in the Balkan region.
Madam President, the population is concerned, because there are indications of a link between this depleted uranium in munitions and effects on people's health and on the environment.
The missions undertaken in Bosnia and in Kosovo by the troops of NATO and of EU Member States were missions against a war criminal.
May I express my thanks to Dr Solana and the Commission for their willingness to keep the European Parliament informed, so that we can make our final assessment in due course on the basis of their information and thus guarantee the safety of our citizens and our troops as well as ensuring the credibility of any military operations we may have to undertake in future in defence of human rights.
Today we have a reasonable hope of including these countries in the European Union; yesterday we were in the thick of the nightmare of ethnic cleansing and atrocities encouraged by the nationalistic dictatorships of Izetbegovic, Karadzic and Milosevic.
To this end, various initiatives have already been undertaken at national and international level.
The examinations must be thorough, they must be carried out by independent experts and there must be transparency about methods and possible factors of uncertainty.
If there are any reasons at all for concern, alternatives to depleted uranium must be invested in and, until certainty has been arrived at, its use may have to be suspended.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, High Representative, I am delighted that this debate is taking place at last.
It would not, therefore, be proper to say at this stage, as some scientists have done, rather thoughtlessly in my opinion, that there is no connection.
The Balkan syndrome, ten years after the Gulf War, is one such significant event.
In my opinion and that of my group, accepting these responsibilities means taking bold decisions in at least three respects.
People have died, more are suffering, and still more are now living in anxiety and in fear of the future.
We are clearly faced with a situation of this type in the Balkans.
This brings me to my second point, the democratic challenge which this tragic case poses for us, for there is a long litany of culpable silence, counter-truths and lying by omission in which both NATO and some Member States have indulged as much as possible.
I am thinking of the horrific effects of the Gulf War on the Iraqi people, particularly the children.
I am thinking of the systematic destruction of the economic potential and the ecological heritage not only of Yugoslavia but also of its neighbouring countries - take the Danube, for example - compounded, as we have just seen, by confirmation of the widespread use in this conflict of arms and munitions which, in addition to causing countless innocent casualties in the short term also represent a long-term threat for people coming into contact with the areas which have been bombed.
I hope that increasing numbers of us will align ourselves with this move for change. (Applause) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Solana, there are few occasions on which it can have been so important that the truth of the matter, the whole truth, emerges in a parliamentary debate as this one.
The vast majority of countries that comprise the European Union, whether they are members of NATO or not, participated in various military and police operations in the Balkans, through their armed forces and security forces.
In Portugal, these cases are of leukaemia and other pathologies associated with radiation in soldiers who served either in Bosnia or Kosovo, one of which has already proved fatal.
These cases have raised and continue to raise, in medical, scientific, military and political circles and consequently in the mind of the public of these countries, justified concern at the possible relationship - which, I emphasise, has not been proved - between exposure to depleted uranium contained in used missiles and the outbreak of the diseases I have just mentioned.
Secondly, because scientific information is as yet incomplete and we need to establish beyond a doubt whether there is a cause and effect relationship between the use of weapons containing depleted uranium and the health problems that we have been seeing.
Also, because it is unacceptable that there should still be controversy over the degree of information that NATO claims to have given the governments and military authorities of the countries participating in missions in good time and the conditions under which their armed forces and the security forces took part in military and police operations.
Lastly, because it would be incomprehensible and even paradoxical for our countries to have participated in missions for peace and to promote human rights in the Balkan region and to possibly left there an unsolved public health and environmental problem that affects precisely the populations that they seeking to protect.
Mr Solana, I thank you for your first speech, not least because of the spirit of openness that you demonstrated.
You were Secretary-General of NATO at the time of the military operations under question and you are now responsible for the implementation of the European Union' s common foreign and security policy.
You are therefore in a position, if you like, to make an enormous contribution to the European Parliament's ability to find, together with the governments of the Member States, NATO and other international organisations, the best solutions to this case at scientific, political or even military levels.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1950, when I was 20 years old, a campaign exploded throughout the entire world: in Europe, in our universities, in schools - they attempted without success as yet to penetrate the churches - and it was the campaign against Ridgway, the "Plague General".
I therefore thank you, Madam President, and I await the revelation of the truth which must be ascertained in the face of our tendency to distort and abuse it ... (The President cut the speaker off) Madam President, we need to establish the facts in this case.
If he is going to reply to this debate, Mr Solana might like to address that point.
Such a moratorium could place our forces at a potential disadvantage and thereby potentially endanger more lives than the NATO forces.
But in addition to this we must also care for the people who live in the regions, for their health and the health of their children. (Applause) Mr President, I saw a short film on German television this morning which was produced on behalf of the American army before the Gulf War.
Mr President, the evidence coming from Bosnia in particular points clearly to a massive increase in cases of cancer where bombings took place during the Balkans war and where ammunition rounds of depleted uranium were used.
This Parliament and the European Union should, and must, be most vigorous in pursuing full answers to these most important public health and human rights issues.
This depleted uranium has been used in Cumbria up to 1995, and it is believed that as many as 1400 depleted uranium shells have been fired into the Solway Firth, which is an inlet of the Irish Sea.
I want to know whether there are any possible public health consequences from the use of depleted uranium shells in the location to which I have referred to today.
It is up to the British government to make a statement on these matters.
Mr President, the scandal of the depleted uranium missiles is just the latest chapter in the despicable war you have waged against Serbia.
We do not seek to establish here and now whether the war in Kosovo was justified or not.
Secondly, we need a radical change in our information policy, and in this respect I must thank the Council, and above all the High Representative of the CFSP, for their undertaking to make all information available to Parliament.
The second responsibility we have is not to be tricked into focusing all statements on the use of depleted uranium.
I was in favour of intervening in the war, but I am against taking irresponsible risks.
Mr President, the toxic nature of the DU shells, and the implications thereof for the military and civilian personnel that have been in contact with the effects of these in Iraq, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo, is a matter that we must approach carefully and cautiously.
We must be cautious, as has been said, for, despite the research undertaken, it has not been possible to establish any clear correlation between the use of these arms and the cases of leukaemia that came to light following these military operations, but also, you should be aware, during the long process of developing and testing these weapons.
We can therefore only welcome the establishment of inquiry bodies at every level within our States, the Alliance and the European Union.
Today, the DU shells stored in our various countries are the arms best capable of penetrating tanks, since technical developments in armour plating have made the use of hollow charges and tungsten shell ineffective.
That is why I shall oppose the request for a moratorium which has been included in point 6 of the compromise resolution when it is put to the vote before this House.
Mr President, we have a responsibility towards two parties: on the one hand, the young people who took part - commendably - in the military operations in Bosnia and Kosovo and, of course, their families, and, on the other, the beneficiaries of those peace-keeping missions, the Balkan peoples.
It is true, the direct or indirect relationship between the use of depleted uranium shells and the cases of leukaemia, which are multiplying, has not yet been proved indisputably, although the link appears more than likely, but these cases exist and are so numerous as to justify the greatest concern.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, daily, and indeed almost hourly, we receive new information about potential dangers.
I thank the High Representative for promising us complete information and transparency.
It will certainly benefit European security and defence policy to be discussed outside the constellation that prevails in the Member States, where governments and oppositions are constantly trying to score political points on these issues.
This also has to be said in such a debate.
Mr President, High-Representative, the mandate which you had for action in Yugoslavia was not a mandate to use weapons which the conscience of humanity rejects and condemns and the potential toxicity of which, as measured now, was known to military leaders at the time.
Our concern has reached proportions which you cannot begin to imagine here in the House, at least among public opinion in my country.
The joint motion for a resolution also calls for a moratorium... (The President cut the speaker off) (Applause) Mr President, just three points, because a great deal has already been said.
Naturally we must have the right information to support our action, but I have the same opinions as have been expressed here with regard to putting the precautionary principle into practice.
We have as our next point for discussion the issue of a rapid reaction force.
In this connection we clearly have to adopt a position on our approach to the matter of people' s health, although we might not see a direct connection, for instance, with leukaemia.
As I said in my opening speech, I am in contact with the governments and organisations working on this issue and once again I can assure you that the Council and I personally will make available all the information we have with the maximum of transparency.
Right now, nobody should have any doubt but that all the countries and all the international organisations are doing their utmost to find a solution to this problem, bringing together the most relevant information as quickly as possible.
A great many things have been said, all very interesting.
The letter was answered verbally and not in writing, but you are aware that the decision which the governments took was to continue along the route they had already undertaken in May, which was the time I actually received the letter.
I have two observations which are almost personal observations.
Firstly, I make a very clear distinction between ends and means.
I am perfectly capable of distinguishing between ends and means and I know very well that ends are the important thing and that achieving the ends depends very much on the means employed.
You represent the will of the people of the European Union and you are responsible for your own actions.
What I have, and what I believe I must share with you, are the moments when we have agreed years or months ago.
And we cannot deny that the resolutions adopted by this Parliament gave me food for thought.
Your resolutions were important to me when I chaired the Council of Ministers of the European Union and also to the Heads of State and Government of the European Union.
We also welcome the opportunity to report back to the European Parliament on the progress of our efforts to establish a solid scientific basis on the effects of depleted uranium.
Mr President, on a point of order.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon tomorrow.
Mr President, on a point of order.
Mr Van Orden, I cannot allow you to make statements on behalf of Lord Bethell unless you have written authorisation from him.
Mr President, since we are discussing the joint resolution on the Balkan syndrome, I would just like to point out that my own name and that of my group have been included erroneously on this joint resolution.
Mr Wurtz, I explicitly said a joint motion for a resolution sponsored by six groups, not seven.
However, I have been invited, lobbied and asked how I am going to deploy the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy's soldiers, tanks and planes.
I have been asked whether we are going to use naval bases in Cyprus and to address a conference of Canadian soldiers.
I want to make it absolutely clear that this is nothing to do with the military rapid reaction force: this is a financial facility for the Commission to respond to crises very rapidly.
We would be very interested to know whether, when the Commissioner responds to this debate, he would be able to outline the types of situations that he envisages this may be used for - although, of course, we have some ideas ourselves.
The original Commission proposal was dated April last year, but after that nothing happened.
So the many amendments in my report are an attempt to amend the original proposal and for us to comment on the new compromise text which we happened to obtain, even though it was never given to us officially.
But, happily, the committee in Parliament has looked at this proposal in great detail and is in favour of it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budgets welcomes the proposed rapid reaction facility.
This trend is continued by the current proposal for the rapid reaction facility.
Mr President, the European Commission boasts a whole raft of competences which are important in terms of a civil contribution to keeping those situations under control which threaten to get out of hand.
My group prefers the Commission text to the rapporteur' s amendments on a number of scores.
For instance, I find the list of examples and goals in Article 1 (1), which is what the rapid reaction facility will serve to achieve, very useful.
The report mentions the clear involvement of the European Parliament in the policy.
Who knows whether more far-reaching coordination and guidance will be possible in the time to come.
The rapid reaction facility is, as far as this is concerned, an enormous step forward.
The proposal to institute a rapid reaction facility by means of which financial resources can be freed up quickly, receives the unqualified support of my group.
The rapid reaction facility must be flexible by nature.
Mr President, when things go wrong in a certain region, the world has come to expect ever more from Europe, and rightly so.
That is why I welcome the Commission proposal to set up a rapid reaction mechanism alongside the military unit and to supplement ECHO.
The impressive list of operations from the otherwise excellent Newton Dunn report comes, therefore, as a bit of a surprise.
Nevertheless, I must point out that, although in our Group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, there is, understandably, no single point of view on this issue, the majority of us are in favour of this rapid reaction force.
Mr President, the discussion on the rapid reaction facility is starting to drag.
Laborious negotiations have once again shown that ambitious goals regarding one of the Union' s external policies evaporate in practice because of the firm positions held by the national Member States.
Moreover, I wonder whether the addition of Article 179 will benefit the speed of this mechanism.
Be that as it may, the declaration of intent to become more active in the resolution of conflicts and in crisis management must be interpreted as an important step in the right direction.
If the EU wishes to play a more prominent role in future, it must have the political will to involve itself more actively in the implementation of appropriate measures.
What is really lacking is a credible desire to assume greater global responsibility in the realms of mediation and crisis management.
Now we have expressed our concerns about the EU meddling in military matters on many occasions and our reservations have not been eased by developments at Nice.
The Commission's financial facility should not be mixed up with these defence issues.
We do want the Commission to carry out its external assistance with greater efficiency and we welcome measures to that effect.
Mr President, the European Parliament has always upheld the need to increase the European Union' s non-military intervention capabilities.
Nevertheless, we all know that, in the context of the second pillar, the military mechanism of a rapid reaction force, designed to fulfil Petersberg-type tasks, is being created.
As a Member of this Parliament, I wish to contribute to the breaking down of some of the barriers that separate fields of competence from one another so that greater cooperation within the European Union is achieved.
Mr President, my party fully recognises the need for the developed countries to make available resources for international crises and for our response to be rapid and effective.
In this context, the Commission's proposal looks attractive in that it provides the mechanisms for affording a response to crisis situations.
The mechanisms for ensuring this already exist in the form of the United Nations and its various agencies.
Mr President, in discussing this matter I very much welcome the proposal from the Swedish Foreign Ministry that I have just seen today for a goal-oriented action plan for conflict prevention, because as I have said before, we in the European Union should be sending a philosophy for peace to areas of conflict and not just armies.
Yet who could have foreseen that in the second half of that century those same people would come together in the European Union.
Mr President, I am very sorry to have heard in the debate MEPs from my own region in the UK from different parties say that they will be opposing this report.
In the week that 600 people lay dead after the earthquake in El Salvador, this European Union must be able to move more quickly just as we failed to do in response to the impact of hurricane Mitch in that same country back in 1998.
I ask Commissioner Patten in closing the debate, first to assure us that the facility will be utilised in response to crises world-wide in support of the EU's development goals and not just in Europe's own backyard.
I must say that his principal objection concerned what I think is Amendment No 9 and, as I shall say shortly we are opposed to Amendment No 9.
But, if there is some confusion about the nature of what we are attempting to do, I have to say that it is partly because of what some of those who agree with the honourable gentleman have been saying about these proposals.
So, I wonder what the hell my honourable friend and his colleagues actually believe in these days.
I think it would be desirable to look beyond those correspondence columns of The Daily Telegraph for one's information on an important subject like this.
Now, I am responsible for ensuring that the Commission is able to respond swiftly and effectively in a crisis both on its own and, as is perhaps more likely to be the case, as part of an overall European Union response to crises including those in which the European Union rapid reaction force might find itself deployed.
The lesson of recent years has been very clear.
I have devoted a great deal of my attention since I became a Commissioner to trying to improve that delivery on the ground.
I think we have started to make progress, as I believe our response to recent events in Serbia has demonstrated.
That is what this proposal for a rapid reaction mechanism is all about.
Just as the wider reforms which we are introducing to our external assistance programmes across the world are designed to ensure that the European Union aid programme begins to earn and to deserve a reputation for excellence.
The rapid reaction mechanism will allow us to activate very rapidly and to disburse quickly Community funds in response to crises or emerging crises.
The draft regulation under discussion in the Council reflects the amendments submitted by Parliament.
We want to ensure maximum flexibility both geographically and bureaucratically, dispensing with complex comitology rules, for example, in favour of straight provision of information to the Council and the European Parliament and simplifying as much as possible the decision-making process.
Interventions under the mechanism will be limited in time and amount up to EUR 12 m each time.
It is not a question of the Commission raiding one budget in order to find money elsewhere.
I think we need to engage Parliament and Ministers much more in discussing the relationship between our political and development priorities and our external spending around the world, because if we only have a limited amount of money to spend, as we will have for the foreseeable future, for ever as long as there is a finance minister, we will always have to make very difficult choices between priorities, and not everybody will like what those choices are.
Let me deal with the amendments proposed by Parliament.
Of the 38 put forward, the Commission can take on board 34, either as they are or with small drafting changes.
Amendment No 14 adds a new recital on the financial rationale behind the budget line created for the mechanism and its budget provision.
We cannot accept Amendment No 28, because the "Community" is not the Budgetary Authority.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words on the question tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, especially on the basis of the findings obtained by Mr Santer and other colleagues of ours on their visit to North Korea.
I believe that we in the European Union have a more important role to play there than we have previously done and that our policy cannot stop at support for the KEDO programme.
As an arms supplier, North Korea is an important player on the world stage, and its development of modern weapons of mass destruction and delivery systems makes it a country which could undoubtedly pose a serious threat to other parts of the Asian continent and to other continents.
Allow me just briefly to mention the three most important of these strategies.
First of all, the European Union' s support for work on achieving lasting peace between the two Korean States.
When it comes to establishing diplomatic relations with the Democratic People' s Republic of Korea, the Council agreed on 20 November of last year that the interested parties must consult between themselves and inform the Council of the content of their discussions with Pyongyang.
In all contacts with the Democratic People' s Republic of Korea, the European Union has emphasised its great concern about the serious violations of human rights in the country, about the number of political prisoners, about the absence of national legislation and about the Korean authorities' refusal to cooperate with international mechanisms in defence of human rights.
The Council and the Commission will, as soon as possible, be examining what measures are possible in order to open the European market to North Korean products.
Those efforts reflect the extent to which Europe has a global role to play and they match, in a sense, the role that Japan has been playing the Balkans - helping to support stability there.
A European Union approach towards recent developments in the Korean Peninsula was agreed at the General Affairs Councils of 9 October and 20 November last year.
This approach aims, as I have said, to support the inter-Korean reconciliation process in order to bring about peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula.
Taking this approach as the basis for Commission action, the Commission will maintain and is considering increasing its assistance to North Korea.
Overall, in the last few years, that assistance has totalled - including the contribution to the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organisation - about EUR 275m.
Respect, for example, for human rights; non-proliferation issues; access for the population to external aid; better operating conditions for NGOs - a point I was able to make to the DPRK Foreign Minister in Bangkok last summer - and the opening up of the DPRK's economy and the structural reform that will be a necessary part of that.
This approach has been outlined to the North Korean authorities at the recent Senior Officials Troika meeting in Pyongyang at the end of November.
I understand that my services are keeping Parliament fully informed of this issue.
Parliament has shown an active interest in this subject for some time.
The humanitarian and food assistance delivered to the DPRK - around EUR 200m since 1993 - will continue.
A new food security programme for 2000, totalling EUR 20m, has just been adopted by the Commission.
The implementation of humanitarian projects approved in the year 2000 will extend well into the summer of this year.
As a first step, these measures include a general increase in the DPRK textile quota by 60%, 50% in the case of a few product categories.
As to the establishment of diplomatic relations between the European Community and the DPRK, the Commission is considering the appropriate timing of such a step in close coordination with Member States.
Finally, clearly the Nobel prize-winner, President Kim Dae-Jung, has been typically visionary in the efforts that he has made to promote reconciliation on the peninsula.
Equally clearly, President Kim Dae-Jung has been very realistic about what can be achieved in the short term.
I hope that with his encouragement the European Union will continue to play its part in ensuring that the Korean Peninsula, the region and, indeed, the world, enjoy peace and prosperity.
Madam President, the resolution on North Korea, on which Parliament is about to vote, has a political significance of the first water.
Not only will the European Parliament itself establish its position on the northern half of the Korean peninsula, but it will also have defined the new direction of this position for all the European institutions.
In my capacity as president of the ad hoc delegation, whose visit to North Korea inspired the drafting of this resolution, I should like to share three key considerations with you.
The first is the advent of a new era in bilateral relations between the two Koreas, characterised by the policy of rapprochement, or Sunshine Policy, of President Kim Dae Jung, who made an important initial gesture with his historic visit in June 2000 to Pyongyang.
Europe has a duty to support the efforts of the Korean people as a whole and the Korean political leaders with a view to achieving stability and lasting peace in Korea.
Secondly, Korea is the last nation in the world that is still divided by a wall.
Europe, which the two Korean states have asked to assist them in defining new economic and political relations within Korea, must accept the challenge and point the Koreans towards the path to integration after a long and difficult time as a divided nation.
The North Korean leadership seems willing to be open and to pursue dialogue with South Korea, the United States, Europe and Japan, and although, in the final analysis, they must be judged on their actions, I am convinced that a European policy of dialogue, structured and critical dialogue, will make a significant contribution to changes in the Democratic People' s Republic of Korea that will benefit the entire world.
I would like very much to see the European Community also establish diplomatic relations with the DPRK.
We need a dialogue on human rights, we need a dialogue on weapon sales, we need a dialogue on economic development.
Observers are estimating that the resulting food crisis has led to the premature deaths of 3 million North Koreans, one in eight of the population.
Europe should pursue this not only because it is currently the policy of the Republic of Korea but because it is the right way to go.
Our advantage is that we are not Japan or the United States and we can act as honest brokers in this most dangerous area of the world.
President Clinton's decision not to go to North Korea, even though he wanted to in order to finish his presidency with a historic visit, could now mean a long pause in Korea's process of opening up to the outside world.
I personally believe that a diplomatic presence is of great importance.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
After the vote on Amendment No 6 Mr President, I would now like us to vote on the paragraph all the same.
Yet, the more time that passes, the more the (semi-) natural habitats are destroyed, and the more difficult it becomes to preserve or to re-establish the ecosystems in all their diversity and richness.
It is not a matter of setting up localised "reserves" where species would be protected as if they were in a museum, but of incorporating environmental concerns in all Community and Member State policy.
After all, Article 6 (4) of Directive 92/43/EC states: "If, in spite of a negative assessment of the implications for the site and in the absence of alternative solutions, a plan or project must nevertheless be carried out for imperative reasons of overriding public interest, including those of a social or economic nature, the Member State shall take all compensatory measures necessary to ensure that the overall coherence of Natura 2000 is protected.
I am in total agreement with the Habitats Directive and its objectives in terms of protecting the endangered outstanding natural heritage of the countries of the European Union.
Even so, I voted against the Sjöstedt report for two crucial reasons.
It is precisely because the European Union deliberately maintains this ambiguity that some countries experience problems in issuing their "Nature 2000" lists and in implementing the Habitats Directive calmly, without resistance on the part of the farmers in those countries, even though everyone acknowledges the noble nature of the objectives of the directive.
Cunha report (A5-0367/2000) Mr President, last summer I went on holiday to Guinea-Bissau, and, as is my wont, I exchanged a few words with one of the local elderly pensioners, or rather with a fisherman from Guinea-Bissau would have dearly loved to have become a pensioner.
This report and its amendments deal with financial support to Guinea-Bissau in the fisheries sector.
Firstly, because the objective of the fisheries agreements between the European Union and third countries are, as is explicitly stated in some other reports, intended to spare European Union fisheries resources and, consequently, to increase catches from the waters of other countries.
Next, because we do not know exactly how this aid will be used and what its precise ultimate destination will be.
Unfortunately, however, too much of this aid is often nothing more than a de facto rebate granted to the European companies investing in these countries.
Van den Bos report (A5-0360/2000) Mr President, after staying in Guinea-Bissau for a fortnight last summer, I went on to Bangladesh, where I did not stay very long for it is not a very wealthy State.
These exports, however, are almost exclusively the work of the major companies, mostly Western, which have set up factories in this country.
This is a clear indication of who it hopes to benefit from the elimination of the "infrastructure bottlenecks" , especially "transport and energy infrastructure" , as well as making "the financial system efficient" , or ensuring "a transparent and accountable institutional environment" , a euphemism for taking action to penalise anyone who, in the widespread corruption, upsets the Western investors.
This new agreement is a further sign of our continuing wish to strengthen our relations with Bangladesh.
The report by Mr Van den Bos and the Miranda resolution clearly set out the main characteristics of the Bangladesh economy and the many challenges facing the government, its institutions, its politicians and its people.
Almost half of its population of 127 million people is living below the poverty line.
Bangladesh has a trade surplus with the EU.
Almost a billion euros have been provided by the EU since 1976 for EU-financed projects: EUR 660 million were provided for food and humanitarian aid; EUR 185 million were provided for the alleviation of poverty and for agriculture.
This is of fundamental importance to the future of Bangladesh.
I welcome these efforts and look forward to further progress in this regard.
I want to fully endorse the main objectives of the agreement, namely: support for sustainable economic development, especially as regards the poorest in society, women and children.
The Development Committee' s resolution stresses the importance of the up-coming general election in Bangladesh in November of this year.
The European Union should respond favourably to the invitations received from both the government and the opposition to send election monitors as was the case in the 1996 and 1991 general elections.
I hope that members of the European Parliament will form part of the team.
I nonetheless voted in favour of the report as a whole because I think it good that the European Parliament should once again make it clear that the EU ought to give priority to non-military crisis management measures.
At the most, it would support the position in the region held by the major European industrial groups that are casting covetous glances at the market for the reconstruction of what the NATO bombers destroyed.
Indeed, the expressed wish that "the RRF will have no geographical limitation" foreshadows acts of piracy to benefit the former colonial powers in Africa or elsewhere, like those that France has committed in the past to protect dictators from the opposition of their peoples, or like those that Great Britain is committing at this very moment in Sierra Leone.
In actual fact, in our opinion, the ultimate purpose of the Rapid Reaction Mechanism is to make Community policies and programmes effective more quickly and to maintain that effectiveness more consistently.
They support proposals with these objectives in mind and therefore welcome the Commission initiative for a Rapid Reaction Facility (or Mechanism), in spite of its confusing title and some unnecessarily politically-correct elements.
We were prepared to support the Commission proposal if it did not contain these amendments (9 or 39) but abstain if they were included.
Oomen-Ruijten report (A5-0338/2000) Mr President, as representative of the Pensioners' Party, how could I not speak on this document, which lays down how the pensions and health care of frontier and other workers, who work in different regions from those in which they live and work at other times of their lives, should be regulated.
We have done so because this report highlights the many serious problems faced by frontier workers.
Even when it does put forward a positive measure such as "proposals to extend access by dependent family members of frontier workers, retired frontier workers and dependent members of their families to health care provisions and benefits" , the Council is asked only "with all possible expedition to adopt a position" .
The discrepancies between national legal provisions and the principle of free movement are primarily due to the fact that Regulation 1408/71 is outdated and, because of the many changes that have occurred in the period since its adoption, can no longer offer employees the legal certainty they require.
Despite numerous opinions that have been delivered by the European Parliament in favour of the harmonisation of social and fiscal legislation, and despite the presentation by the Commission of concrete proposals for the updating and simplification of Regulation 1408/71, the Ministers of the Member States have been blocking this necessary reform process in the Council, thereby preventing the single market from becoming a reality for people in Europe. - (DE) The report on the situation of frontier workers with which the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has presented us undoubtedly stems from the laudable intention of ensuring that frontier workers are not subject to discrimination in terms of pay, working conditions and social security and of resolving the problems that still persist in these areas.
That is just as much divorced from reality as various assertions in the resolution; some of the demands it makes are tantamount to kicking at open doors, at least in relation to the circumstances of the 85,000 frontier workers in Luxembourg.
The frontier workers who are employed in Luxembourg rejoice in these differences, because our pensions are far more generous than those in Belgium, France and Germany, where our frontier workers live.
Although some elements of the social security system are tax-funded in Luxembourg, this does not result in inequalities, because frontier workers are also entitled to the relevant benefits, such as those under the care-insurance scheme, a right which even applies in Belgium and France.
Social assistance is not really a problem for frontier workers at all, because they are employees with no need of social assistance.
Motion for a resolution on environment directives (B5-0038/2001) Although the directives on conservation of natural habitats, the elimination of PCBs and PCTs, and the protection of waters from nitrate pollution are only inadequately applied in the Member States, this does not mean by any means that these are poor directives which must be changed, as some people in this House would seek to have us believe.
The implementation of the Habitats Directive is intended to provide long-term protection for a European network of biologically outstanding natural habitats and to exempt them from future redevelopment in order to prevent conflicts in land use or damage to those environments.
These objectives have, admittedly, been very badly presented in the Member States, causing occasionally very bitter conflicts between the owners and users of these areas.
The European Union absolutely must not yield to the industrial interests which would negate the very spirit of the directive.
The Commission, as Guardian of the Treaties, must firstly adopt a firm stance with regard to the Member States in order to ensure that they implement these directives and, secondly, to stand firm against attempts to amend these directives even before they have been able to demonstrate their full relevance, particularly in the areas of dealing with nitrate pollution in water and protecting and raising the profile of outstanding natural sites.
Parish report (A5-0357/2000) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, I would be most grateful if you would reserve just a snippet of your attention, which I am sure is in no short supply, for the explanation of my vote for the Parish report on young farmers.
I would stress the importance of milk produced by young farmers and of supporting the product at this difficult time for the farming world.
We nonetheless believe that the EU' s agricultural subsidy ought to be reduced considerably and are therefore opposed to the demands for an increase in the agricultural subsidy, presented in paragraphs 7, 11 and 14 of Mr Parish' s report.
As a representative of a rural constituency, I am acutely aware of the concerns expressed by farmers over the very future of farming in Ireland.
Young farmers are an essential part of the farming future.
They perform a very important role in the social life of villages and rural communities, promoting a whole range of activities and participating in local associations.
In Ireland the National Development Plan for 2000-2006 provides a wide range of measures which will assist young farmers embarking on their farming career.
They will focus in particular on young farmers.
It should also be noted that the nature of these schemes shows a clear commitment to the protection of the environment, an issue which will figure strongly in the future development of both Irish and European agriculture.
To conclude, it is imperative that we, at European level, address ourselves towards ensuring a future for European agriculture.
The Common Agricultural Policy has been a European success story, and we want to keep it that way.
The future lies with our young farmers and with agricultural practices which are sustainable and protect the environment.
As we all know, agriculture and the rural world are in decline, a decline in which the common agricultural policy has played a large part, promoting, as it does, land concentration, intensification of production, the gradual verticalisation of agricultural produce, all of which contribute to desertification and rural depopulation, as proved by a fall in the number of those employed and in the number of farms of around 22% and 20%, respectively, since 1990.
Young farmers represent the new lifeblood of farms and are crucial to guaranteeing the future of agriculture in the various regions of the EU.
Special measures for Community support for young farmers are therefore crucial, although the fundamental problem lies in the need for a sea change in the CAP.
What has happened since the well and truly hysterical dramatisation of the crisis in most of our Member States will surely do nothing to motivate young people to remain in farming, let alone encourage them to see their future in rural areas, where, as the report so admirably states, they have a very important role to perform in the social life of villages and rural communities, promoting and maintaining the countryside and contributing to the economic, social and environmental needs of the community, We have greater cause for concern about the future of farming in the European Union than ever before as a result of this mainly consumer-led crisis of confidence, given that the number of farmers under the age of 35 has been showing the sharpest decline for some time and now stands at 28% and that the percentage of farmers in the population of almost every Member State is falling.
Our report contains all the most important and correct diagnoses as well as all the demands which have to be fulfilled if sufficient numbers of young people are to continue to see their future in farming.
This is a list of demands to which not only the European Commission but also the Council and all the Member States must pledge themselves if they want to prevent the depopulation, desolation and decline of rural areas in the European Union and the accompanying exacerbation of our social and cultural problems.
It has been noted that the situation of young farmers is a serious problem in the European Union and they do not have any real prospects despite the support provided by the Union and the Member States.
This is why I consider this report to be so important and why I am delighted that we have voted in favour of it.
The economic situation is unfavourable and sometimes extremely serious, particularly for young people.
We note that young farmers experience problems resulting from education and training that is often poorly suited to their needs.
Even Agenda 2000 neglects these fundamentally important aspects.
Internet access must become a reality, and young farmers must be able to become acquainted with integrated production and marketing management systems so as to manage their holdings effectively.
Depopulation may be combated, in particular by maintaining public services in rural areas (schools, post offices, transport services), and social facilities may be maintained by pooling the resources of several communes, for example, or by resorting to the use of mobile services.
Finally, I must say that there is a need for conservation.
The way to resolve conservation questions is not by moving to different fish stocks and bringing them into a quota system, but by ensuring that we have certain no-go areas where we can allow fishing stocks to re-mature.
This example has already been proven in certain areas by voluntary agreements in Irish waters and by maintenance of these non-fishing areas - so-called set-aside areas, to give the analogy with the common agricultural policy - for a certain period of time.
Mr President, I voted for this report on the common fisheries policy, but I call upon the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission to monitor more effectively one of the factors referred to in paragraph 20 of the report, which is disregarded, namely how and whether the size of the pensions and situation of the pensioners in the fisheries sector and, in particular, in the small-scale fishing sector, are monitored.
Similarly, the European Parliament called in resolution Á4-0018/99 (C-153/1-6-99) for the Commission to propose extending the exclusive fishing zone to 24 nautical miles in order to guarantee a suitable decentralisation policy and protection for the interests of coastal areas.
The Commission should adopt this resolution by the European Parliament.
The parliamentary reports on which we are required to deliver our opinion cover various aspects of the common fisheries policy, including the management and conservation of fisheries resources, structural policy, the European Union' s external relations on fishing, market organisation, monitoring and controls.
The Commission has expressed the following priorities: improving the coherence between the various objectives of the CFP, especially between the conservation of resources, economic effectiveness and employment in fishing-dependent regions; greater consideration of the economic side of fishing; improving the integration of environmental and fishing policy; improving administrative instruments, particularly integrating multiannual instruments; seeking a more transparent decision making process and maintaining the external aspects of the CFP.
We can, of course, support all these points in principle.
While it is true that the TACs must be determined chiefly on an objective scientific basis, dialogue with workers in the sector must certainly be established at institutional level and must be stepped up.
Inspection and penalty systems must absolutely be harmonised between the various fishing areas, in order to prevent distortions between Member States.
The system of inspections carried out by Community countries on third country fleets operating in Community waters must be intensified.
Poignant report (A5-0332/2000) Mr President, I voted for this report for I - and the Pensioners' Party - consider that, before taking important decisions, the European Parliament - and not only Parliament but all the government bodies - should consult the groups, peoples and citizens concerned.
The document states that the Commission consulted a large number of bodies before taking a decision on the common fisheries policy: representatives of the fishermen, representatives of the companies which live off fishing and representatives of the fishing boat equipment companies.
We have two years before 31 December 2002 to consider and make a decision on a common policy which, according to the European Commission' s tally, raises 18 questions, ranging from free access to territorial waters, the control and management of the market in fishery and aquaculture products to international fisheries agreements, scientific research into fish stocks and the specific characteristics of the Mediterranean.
Every year, worldwide, over 15% of fish caught are thrown back into the sea, particularly in the EU, on the pretext of maintaining prices or in order to respect restrictions, whereas countries such as Norway make the most of fish that fall outside the permitted limits.
They make up 20 million tonnes of the total global catch of 122 million tonnes.
In order to handle such diverse problems, the European Commission has used an effective method that involves extensive consultation of fisheries and environmental organisations as well as producers. (Speech cut short pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) Joint motion for a resolution on depleted uranium Mr President, on behalf of my group I would like to welcome the compromise resolution which we have just passed.
The UN Convention of October 1980 banned the use of certain indiscriminate weapons; the 1996 resolution of the Sub-Commission on Human Rights also explicitly condemned depleted uranium weapons because of their non-discriminatory character.
The use of these weapons has already, therefore, been condemned in international law.
The enormity of this error conceals the fact that even very low doses of radiation, like that from depleted uranium, can in fact have devastating health impacts.
Finally, I would like to refer to the report on the front page of last week's European Voice, which proclaims that the new EU rapid reaction force is apparently planning to use depleted uranium weapons.
Mr President, I voted against this document because I feel that there has been too much hypocrisy at play in this issue.
Mr President, I supported the joint resolution on depleted uranium and I welcome the fact that Parliament decided to retain the reference and the call for a moratorium on these weapons.
At the same time as declaring he was in favour of transparency and openness in relation to this issue, he admitted that he only began to take action on it when it became a public issue about a week ago, despite his role as Secretary-General of NATO during the Balkans War.
I deplore also his attempt to make this Parliament complicit in the decision by NATO to use these weapons.
I would urge, as others have urged, that the new rapid reaction force should not have available to it these types of weapons.
Because the joint motion for a resolution refuses to acknowledge the correlation between cases of cancer and leukaemia in soldiers who served in the occupying forces in Bosnia and Kosovo and during the Gulf War and depleted uranium, it confines itself to a wish list of transparent discussions and working parties and merely calls for the Member States who are members of ÍÁÔÏ to propose that the use of depleted uranium weapons be stopped and for ÍÁÔÏ to study the possibility of using different types of weapons, in other words to continue killing, but with "clean" weapons.
Of course, the European Parliament acted true to form, as the war criminal, the former Secretary-General of NATO and the current High Representative of the EU, Javier Solana, cynically pointed out in his intervention, because it was the European Parliament itself which insisted on military intervention in the Balkans, both in Bosnia and Kosovo.
American soldiers in KFOR were warned against breathing in depleted uranium.
The consequences for the civil population in those areas exposed to military action by NATO have by no means been thoroughly investigated.
They gave army leaders a free hand and, today, faced with the public' s reaction, they are pretending to be concerned about the consequences of their decision while trying to shirk their own responsibilities.
There may be a link between the cases of leukaemia found in soldiers who have served in the Balkans and the use of such weapons by NATO.
Until we obtain conclusive proof, we should apply the precautionary principle and impose a moratorium on the use of such weapons.
In its entirety, therefore, the resolution is fair and I fully support it.
However, as it stands, paragraph 6 goes too far, as it stands, in calling upon NATO member states to propose a moratorium, as the precautionary principle is included in the draft which urges NATO to consider other types of weapons until the results of the enquiry on depleted uranium are published.
We all know that these weapons, used by NATO during the Gulf War (1991), and the conflicts in Bosnia (1994-5) and Kosovo (1999) had serious consequences, firstly, for the civilian population that was bombed, for their environment, and for the soldiers there, whether NATO, Iraqi, Bosnian, Serbian or Kosovan forces.
For the rest, the motion for a resolution extends - with a few brief references - to very serious matters, such as the analysis of and the need for research into depleted uranium, but makes no mention whatsoever of the constant efforts being made to confuse and conceal the facts, independent research which we all know about and even official texts issued by NATO countries on the danger of depleted uranium and the protective measures which they themselves impose on their forces.
It is for these reasons that I am unable to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
In both cases, anyone with a lack of arguments on the matter at issue will forget the principles of rationalism and flirt with the irrational, which is the precursor to any type of totalitarianism or Stalinism.
Resolution on Korea Mr President, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group voted in favour of the resolution on Communist Korea.
This group expresses the hope that North Korea will in the near future resume a policy of genuine freedom that is an indispensable condition for peace.
Nevertheless, we can but condemn the willingness, indicated in the resolution, to entrust the task of managing relations with Communist Korea to the European Union rather than to Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the European Commission, I am very pleased that, at an early stage in the Swedish Presidency, the opportunity has already been provided to debate this important issue concerning the preparations for the forthcoming meeting with the UN Human Rights Commission.
In March of last year, the Council requested an assessment of the EU' s human rights dialogue with China.
It is still unclear whether a resolution on China is to be adopted in this year' s session.
Among the resolutions on particular themes, the EU will, in the future too, take responsibility for the resolutions concerning the rights of the child and the death penalty.
It is as yet uncertain what initiatives will be required from the EU when it comes to the Human Rights Commission' s resolution concerning the World Conference Against Racism, while the EU's participation in the preparations for this World Conference will undoubtedly be one of the greatest challenges during this six-month period.
It is important that the views of Parliament are taken into account, as the European Union works towards establishing positions on the main issues which will be covered in Geneva.
New positions on the initiatives in Geneva will only be finally determined after lengthy negotiations, which are, of course, an integral part of the process.
Representatives of the presidency, the Commission services and several Member States attended a meeting of the Human Rights Contact Group held in Brussels on 11 January.
The adoption of the resolution tabled by the European Union on the death penalty was a welcome achievement.
The Swedish Presidency has signalled more generally that the efforts made by the European Union in connection with the death penalty will be continued and intensified.
As I have noted, decisions regarding EU resolutions for this year's 57th Commission in Geneva have not been finalised, as is usual for this stage of the process.
The presidency and Member States are examining the situation in several countries, taking into account, where appropriate, the information from the United Nations' special rapporteurs and other evidence available.
Familiar concerns remain with respect to China, concerns which continue to be heard as part of the EU-China dialogue.
It is nonetheless essential that dialogue leads to concrete change, a point reiterated by the European Union in Geneva last year.
With this in mind, the human rights dialogue with China is currently the object of an evaluation exercise which will lead to the adoption of conclusions by the January General Affairs Council.
They will form the basis for carrying forward the dialogue in a constructive and meaningful manner.
As regards Iran, the resolution adopted at the 55th session of the General Assembly in New York welcomed the positive changes in that country.
The interim report submitted to the General Assembly last September by Mr Copithorne, the special representative, reflected the need to invigorate the progress towards improving human rights.
Finally, as a thematic concern, children's issues will deservedly receive much attention this year, not least at the special session of the United Nations General Assembly scheduled for September.
With this in mind, the European Union will continue to play an active role in the resolution on children's rights at Geneva and, as last year, will seek the useful cooperation of the Latin American and the Caribbean group.
The situation in particular in Byelorussia has deteriorated dramatically and there have been the most horrible civil wars and massacres on a massive scale in the Balkans.
We must congratulate ourselves in Europe on some progress but not enough has been achieved.
The human rights situation in those countries has improved dramatically and in the Baltic States with the build-up of the mixed economic system.
I believe though that I should mention two or three of the particular problems of Russia.
He seems not to have a sense of humour.
I have also watched with concern in the past year the tendency of the present leaders of Russia - many of whom are ex-KGB because they were appointed by a former colonel in the KGB - to be a little bit trigger-happy in the arrest of so-called British, American and Russian spies.
So, with those reservations I congratulate the Commission and the President-in-Office and look forward to an improvement in human rights in the coming year.
The promotion and defence of human rights is a high priority for the European Union and remains one of the fundamental principles of the Union.
Indeed, I believe the concept of human rights should inform everything we do in the name of democracy because a negative human rights situation is often caused or exacerbated by the absence of democracy and inefficient and corrupt government structures.
Human rights do not exist in isolation, neither should they be considered in abstract.
They are the fundamental rights of all people regardless of who they are, where or to whom they are born.
Yet as we speak in this Chamber, the human rights of men, women and children are being violated.
This is why the Council and the Member States must work for the universal ratification of the main human rights instruments available to all countries, in particular, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural rights, the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, already mentioned, the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Racial Discrimination and the extremely important Convention against Torture.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the European Union is an important community of values standing for democracy, humanitarianism and human rights.
It is good that the Council supports the resolution on the death penalty and on the rights of the child and of women.
The President-in-Office of the Council mentioned Iran and Chechnya.
In these countries, too, the situation is very alarming.
Both the UN and the EU are important voices in the international debate.
Mr President, human rights are an inseparable part of the basis of human dignity and law in the Union.
However, the EU will have no human rights strategy whilst the responsibility continues to remain primarily with the Member States.
A community based on respect for, and defence of, human rights, such as the EU, should, however, be able to achieve a more consistent, determined policy on human rights than is the case at present.
For the EU' s voice to carry further and more audibly it must have a consistent policy, one that is genuinely its own, and must firm up its work in this area.
Mr President, Mr Vitorino, President-in-Office of the Council, in preparing a resolution on a subject like human rights, there are in fact two possibilities: we can state principles and avoid naming specific areas; or we can do as we have in fact done, namely name a number of specific areas and so run the risk of forgetting some things.
The Swedish Presidency says that it will give high priority to the work done towards abolishing the death penalty.
I think we have to be aware of the situation in the United States.
We are in a situation in which there are people on death row in the United States who, we are quite convinced, have not been given fair trials, nor who will in fact be given fair trials unless outside powers help them, for the system will not of itself produce these.
I also think we have to remember another of our 'friends' , namely Turkey - an applicant country - which we do not mention at all in this resolution.
It is a problem that we still have a country so close to us which will not abolish the death penalty, which will not introduce general democratic rights for ethnic minorities and which has not acquired control over the methods its police use, either on the street or in its jails.
Lord Bethell spoke about Chechnya.
However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you refer to the Union' s consensus position.
We know from experience that the Union' s consensus position is the method that you have come up with in order to avoid adopting any serious position in Geneva.
We already saw this last year, when the Union hid behind the United States and other countries until the last moment in order to avoid adopting any real initiative on Chechnya and on the People' s Republic of China.
Mr President, in previous debates on the human rights situation I have advocated repeatedly that the European Union should take more preventive action and respond more rapidly to crises.
It therefore surprised me somewhat not to hear either the presidency or the Commission breathe a word about the human rights situation in Africa just now in the introduction.
That is why I shall make bold to start out by drawing attention to a highly topical situation, and one which is potentially very explosive on the human rights front, namely the situation in Congo following the assassination of President Kabila.
This brings me to the agenda of the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva.
I would like to ask that special attention be given to two forms of human rights violations that have taken on alarming proportions in Europe over the last few years.
Sweden has a good reputation when it comes to defending human rights in the world.
Mr President, the UN Commission on Human Rights is not just a discussion forum but also an exceptional instrument for the dissemination and defence of human rights.
However, the very fact that a serious breach of human rights in a United Nations member state should be mentioned at Geneva is really a political fact in itself.
The countries on the receiving end of the criticism decry "name calling" and are lobbying hard in advance to prevent any discussion, and this is exactly where the European Parliament, being so committed to the defence of human rights, can fully play its part.
In conjunction with the relevant NGOs, and particularly with Amnesty International and the human rights leagues, Parliament can address the Council and Member States in order to insist that, in Geneva, the Fifteen present well-founded common positions on priority issues.
These violations, against which there is no possible appeal, have been recorded in the Russian Federation (in relation to Chechnya), in Sierra Leone, Indonesia, Colombia, Iran and Iraq, in Palestinian territories occupied by Israel and in Turkey, amongst other places.
Parliament will do itself credit by demanding that the governments of Europe adopt a firm position on this issue.
We have just approved the new Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Mr President, it is more than 50 years since we adopted the Declaration of Human Rights, but we probably need to ask ourselves whether the human rights situation has in actual fact improved.
However, we must be certain that we are in a position to follow through and take action if it proves that human rights are being violated.
The situation of the developing countries is quite different in this respect.
If we are obliged to introduce sanctions, which more often than not will only affect the poor sector of the population, we therefore need, where developing countries are concerned, to establish a special strategy with regard to sanctions so that we do not only hit those we really wanted to help, as well as those who have suffered in the past.
This constitutes a very large task for the EU as a whole and also for the European Parliament.
However, it is of course crucial for us to work with human rights more generally so that we can obtain some comparable figures, for Parliament is inclined to intervene as soon as we hear that a human right is being violated somewhere or other.
I should like, in conclusion, to say that those areas dealt with in the resolution are important, but that they are not, of course, the only areas demanding our attention.
Mr President, I would like to concentrate on three issues in this debate on the preparation of the annual human rights conference in Geneva, and the European Union' s role in this.
I now hear that there is a possibility of talks between Aung San Suu Kyi and the military command, and that next month, a delegation from the European Union under the leadership of Sweden is going to travel to Burma.
The country is facing enormous problems in a number of regions such as Aceh, the Moluccas, Irian Jaya and Timor.
We see evidence of this in the Sudan, and Sierra Leone, and the phenomenon is also on the increase in a number of other countries.
What we are talking about here is a double human rights violation.
There is an urgent need for a robust statement on these practices in Geneva, as I see it, and I also call upon the European Union to table a resolution in this vein.
Mr President, naturally I support the criticism of China with regard to Tibet, of Russia with regard to Chechnya, and I endorse the criticism voiced in relation to the human rights violations in the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, also when it comes to the repugnant public lynchings that are carried out.
Mr President, last year, only a few votes prevented the inclusion of the continuing human-rights abuses in China on the agenda in Geneva.
I hope we can be more successful in the coming months in winning over countries that will be represented on the Commission on Human Rights at its 57th session.
I am not unaware, Commissioner Vitorino, of the dialogue between the European Union and China.
We therefore appeal to the Council and Member States of the EU to take the initiative in Geneva this time; as you said, Mr Danielsson, we are one of the key players.
Allow me to comment on a few of them.
I just want to emphasise that it is the Council' s view that the situation in Chechnya is still serious.
It cannot perhaps be said to be as urgent as it has been in previous years, but it is our judgement that we ought to follow up the resolution presented and adopted last year because of the serious situation in Chechnya.
A number of speakers discussed the situation in China.
In conclusion, a few words about the situation in Burma/Myanmar.
This year too, the European Union is preparing a proposal concerning the situation in Burma/Myanmar, to be presented at the meeting of the Human Rights Commission.
For example, Sweden has for many years been responsible for a resolution in the UN' s General Assembly about the situation in Burma/Myanmar, and the European Union as a whole is actively engaged in the discussions in the International Labour Organisation (ILO) when it comes to the fact that forced labour still exists in Burma.
That is why this debate today is extremely important, as is the parallel debate with the NGOs, so that we can gather as much information as possible and incorporate it in the position of the European Union in preparation for the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights.
I would conclude by emphasising that we place great emphasis on preparing the position of the European Union for the UN General Assembly on Children's Rights, and I welcome the willingness of the Swedish Presidency to take this position very seriously in September.
We are in the lead in raising awareness and giving the police and the judiciary of the fifteen Member States the necessary harmonised legal instruments to fight against those threats to human rights and to stability in the 15 Member States.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
The European Union has adopted a programme including new forms of cooperation with a view to becoming the world' s most dynamic and competitive economy.
During the first six months of 2001, the enlargement process will enter a phase of practical negotiations in many areas.
The principle of differentiation will be one of the cornerstones of this work.
Great progress has been made in the applicant countries.
The Commission must facilitate the process.
There is still a lot of work to be done, but it should now be possible to welcome new Member States after the end of 2002.
I hope that applicant countries will be able to take part in the elections to the European Parliament in 2004.
Nothing is more important to the individual' s development and freedom than to have a job and be self-supporting.
Nothing is more important for democracy and equality than work for all.
In Lisbon in March of last year, the European Council set a new strategic goal for the European Union.
Within ten tears, the EU is to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
Public finances are strong.
The route to full employment is via continued economic reforms, developed social security and strengthened welfare.
The most important competitive factors will be human capital in the case of companies and education in the case of employees.
Nations which do not make the most of the skills and creativity of all their citizens will lose out in terms of competitiveness.
I also want to emphasise how vitally important it is for stability and prosperity in Europe for economic and monetary union to be developed successfully.
The ecological perspective is often regarded as backward-looking, and the vision of the sustainable society as a vision in conflict with goals such as justice and increased material prosperity.
Attention must also be given to the rapidly growing chemicals market.
Our generation' s task is to leave behind us a Europe in which the major environmental problems have been solved.
Ever more decisions must be made by qualified majority voting and by means of a codecision procedure with the European Parliament.
I expect it to be possible for the new Treaty to be signed within just over a month.
This prescribes a further Intergovernmental Conference in 2004 and calls upon the Swedish and the forthcoming Belgian presidencies to open a debate on issues for the future with all interested parties in 2001.
This must take place in cooperation with the Commission and with the involvement of the European Parliament.
In the foreseeable future, the challenges for Europe in terms of security policy will be about managing crises and preventing conflicts.
Close cooperation must also be developed between the UN and the OSCE.
The Swedish Presidency will give high priority to implementing the decisions made by the European Council in Nice concerning the European Union' s capacity for military and civil crisis management.
We intend to develop a European programme for conflict prevention to be presented to the European Council in Gothenburg.
I know that the European Parliament has a strong interest in both crisis management and conflict prevention.
Developments in Russia are important to the future of Europe as a whole.
In a modern democracy, a strong State must be balanced by a strong civil society.
The presidency' s ambition is to pursue a policy vis-à-vis Russia aimed at both cooperation and honesty, with a view to achieving greater predictability and stability in our relations.
If such a rapprochement is to become a reality, clear efforts at cooperation between the countries in the region is, however, required.
In the conflict in the Middle East, the European Union has played an important role in supporting the American peace efforts.
During its presidency, Sweden will work for a continued active European role in the peace process.
The Commission, which - as part of its internal reforms - has taken a number of steps of its own towards increased transparency, has submitted a proposal on the matter.
As I mentioned in the introduction to my speech, the European Union' s basic values have been given a more central place in the Union' s activity.
The successful work on the Charter of Fundamental Rights is an important expression of this.
The European Parliament has a central role in this respect.
The Swedish Presidency is keen to see good, close cooperation with Parliament during the next six months.
The Swedish Presidency will therefore be guiding us some of the way towards the historic date of 1 January 2002.
They are not only the priorities for these six months, to be forgotten thereafter: they are long-term challenges which are the objectives of the entire five-year legislature.
For this reason, and also because Nice, aware of its limitations, provides for a post-Nice, I would urge this House, when the time comes, to recommend to its national counterparts that they ratify the Treaty of Nice.
Indeed, it is clear to me that peace, stability and prosperity cannot stop at the borders of the European Union but must also benefit as far as possible all our friends and neighbours.
The second E is for employment.
In particular, the Commission welcomes the presidency's emphasis on modernising the labour market and on the need to guarantee equal opportunities for men and women in our society.
In this connection, the Commission intends to propose a new strategy for creating a European labour market by 2005, the details of which will be contained in the Summary Report currently being prepared for the Stockholm meeting.
The third E is for Environment.
The Gothenburg Summit must take concrete, practical steps - and I repeat, concrete and practical - on this crucial issue.
The participation of the citizens in both the major decisions and the daily life of Europe and its institutions is, in fact, one of the Commission's priorities.
I would therefore like to assure the presidency of our full support for their endeavours to promote openness and transparency.
Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the initiatives planned for the next six months are ambitious and will, I am sure, make a big impression on our citizens.
This is all the more true if we consider the decisive issue of what has come to be called "post-Nice", or the specific debate on the future of the Union.
What is more - and this is the most important point - the majority of the Heads of State and Government were more concerned with maintaining the power to block the future action of the Union rather than finding a way of advancing the common venture. (Applause) Nice was thus a clear demonstration of what is meant by agreement on the lowest common denominator.
The first lesson is that nothing positive or lasting can be done to guarantee the future of Europe without the immediate involvement of the whole of Europe, including, of course, all the candidate countries.
The contribution of the European democratic political parties is essential in order to root this debate in civil society.
All three are important: brevity, conclusiveness and the taking of decisions.
As I have said, the reflection we are about to embark on will have to be open, for, as has been stressed in the last few days, what it boils down to is thinking about the structure of political life in a Union with 25 or more members.
However, I would be betraying my convictions and failing in my duty if I did not repeat, yet again, the concerns which I expressed here on 3 October last year, for they have lost none of their relevance.
In fact, the dynamic of the Union over the past 40 years and, more especially, since Maastricht, has produced a unique political system which cannot be likened to any national model.
It is effective - as well democratic - because it is built around an institution, the Commission, which is an independent executive body but mindful of the interests of all the Member States, both large and small, and the play of balance between them.
In this connection, the debate on what must or must not be done at European or national level by way of concrete government action is most welcome and is a result of this debate.
Only coherent action, reviewed in the light of the principle of subsidiarity and of a clearer vision of the governance of Europe, operating around the institutional triangle according to the Community method, can guarantee this result.
I can tell you on behalf of our group that you also have our full support in relation to the substance of your statement, in which you give priority to a European Community approach, rather than to intergovernmental cooperation, the cooperation between governments that we firmly reject in the Community framework.
You have a very sympathetic country as your neighbour - just as we find Sweden sympathetic.
We hear somewhat more about a European Community approach in Finland, and I would like to see Finland and Sweden of one mind on these issues.
This EPP Congress decided the principles I want to put to you with no votes against, with all 42 national parties voting in favour.
Please see to it that we have transparency; that is the great hope we place in your presidency. (Applause)Mr President, since I carefully read everything you say in your capacity of distinguished Swedish Prime Minister and President of the Council, I noted your address to the Nordic Club on 5 October, in which you said you place high hopes in the Council of Ministers.
You had many gratifying things to say about the euro.
I agree, but you must have the courage to strengthen the euro in Europe by telling the people of your country that the euro is a necessity and that Sweden is accompanying us along this road. (Applause)I wish you success, and your success will be our common success.
We see evidence of this in the mad cow problem.
Parliament set up a committee of inquiry in 1997 and, this weekend, we have seen once again, in the case of Austria and Italy, how governments finally recognise the problem when they have no other option.
They are still burying their heads in the sand, when what we need are European solutions to European problems.
The next issue which is going to keep the Swedish Presidency busy, and indeed which is going to keep us all busy, from the year 2001, which is just beginning, until the year 2004 - a four-year period in which many elections are to take place, including European elections, is the 'post-Nice' scenario.
Indeed, I welcome the commitment you expressed to arriving at a clear agreement on such a sensitive issue as access to documents, but we have to go further than that.
Naturally, thereafter, the debate should be redistributed through all forms of the media, but civil society should not be placed in opposition to Parliaments, because we live in representative democracies and we have to work out a complex system.
There is no task more important than creating a united Europe, and the negotiations really need to take a major leap forward this spring.
The objectives and indicators must be confirmed in Gothenburg in accordance with what you have told us.
Conflict prevention in all areas of foreign policy is very important to our Group.
These include measures to combat trafficking in women and the efforts to attain lasting peace in Palestine.
Instead, the decision process became more complicated.
Certain EU countries want to exclude citizens of the future EU countries from the Union' s labour market for a long period.
Real left-wing politics must give top priority to employment even in matters of economic policy, instead of to the dogmatic monetarism which currently dominates the EU and economic and monetary union.
Such a policy would also require democratic control of the European Central Bank.
Several members of the Swedish Government have talked in positive terms about this idea.
This involves a kind of privatisation of the screening for asylum purposes, where the fate of many asylum seekers is in practice decided by airport personnel outside the European Union.
Not only does Sweden give up its policies of non-alignment and independence, but it is now also going to work actively towards implementing the militarisation of the EU.
As a NATO country, Turkey also demands influence over EU policy in this area in order to make NATO' s military resources available.
With these words, the United Left would like to wish the Swedish Presidency every success.
Madam President, firstly, I wish the Swedish Presidency every success in the knowledge that their success will certainly be Europe's success as well.
I would certainly welcome the intensification of the enlargement negotiations between the applicant countries and the European Union.
We should recall that the accession negotiations are broken up into nearly 40 different chapters of talks, covering every ambit of social and economic activity that is carried out by the European Union.
Presently, many of the more difficult chapters of discussions still remain unopened, and these include agricultural issues, the free movement of persons, the implementation of EU social and employment legislation and the incorporation of many EU directives and regulations in the field of environmental matters.
This is the core of the problem when it comes to the issue of enlargement of the European Union.
Applicant countries want the EU leaders to give a fixed date for the next enlargement of the Union.
However, the EU governments are seeking the conclusion of the more difficult chapters of talks between the applicant countries and the European Union before such a date can be announced.
However, the fact that EU leaders were able to agree a reform of the decision-making procedures within the EU institutions at Nice before Christmas is certainly a step in the right direction.
Applicant countries can now take solace from the fact that the EU has reformed its internal decision-making procedures so that the mechanics of the enlargement process can take place in a streamlined and structured manner.
I welcome the fact that the Swedish government is going to ensure that employment and environmental matters stay at the top of the agenda during its presidency of the Union.
It is imperative that the European Union guarantees that the benefits of new information technologies are incorporated across all sectors of European industry.
Equally, it is important that there is an intensification of support for employment initiatives in urban and rural blackspots.
Finally, I hope that the European Union and the United States of America can come to an agreement in Bonn in May of this year so as to guarantee that environmental targets to reduce the effects of global warming can be reached.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, I would like to thank you for attending and for your substantial speech.
Having said that, we are used to a great deal of flexing of muscles in the House and we will have to see what will happen when Parliament enters the ring to vote.
At the signing of the Treaty of Cologne, the Council, of which you were a member, threw Parliament a bone in the shape of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in order to keep it quiet.
A little too late, Parliament realised that this was indeed its intention and, this is the important point, that this was what you decided at Nice in the way you decided it, in other words, the weighting of votes in the Council and the membership of the Commission.
Suggesting an Intergovernmental Conference in 2004 to Parliament and the Commission is like offering a poisoned chalice because there will be no Parliament in 2004.
It is also startling that the negotiations ended with a decision to hold all summits in Brussels, with the Swedish Prime Minister' s not knowing about this decision when we believed he was involved in making it.
We call upon Sweden to introduce genuine flexibility in the negotiations on enlargement so that the majority of the countries can be involved in the collaborative work and participate in the next elections to the EU Parliament in 2004.
The Treaty of Nice has been called an enlargement treaty, but it is a non-binding declaration which specifies the seats and weighting of votes in Parliament, while the binding enlargement protocol of the Treaty of Amsterdam is to disappear.
On Sunday, 14 January Austria had its first suspected case of BSE.
I hope the same will apply to all future suspected cases in Austria.
The EU, together with the new administration in the USA, can remove customs barriers for agricultural products and the textile industry.
Unlike the Left Party which supports the Swedish Government, I find it gratifying that the Swedish Presidency states in its Programme that one of its main priorities is to devote itself to making the EU force the pace of development within the WTO towards tangible liberalisations.
This declaration is totally in line with Sweden' s tradition of free trade and openness towards the surrounding world.
The Tobin tax is a threat to the poor of the world.
In my opinion, the priorities stipulated by Sweden, the three Es, are sound priorities.
The most important one is, of course, enlargement.
I myself cannot imagine being able to participate in the completion of any greater or more important task in the whole of my political life.
The second priority concerns jobs.
The third priority concerns long-term sustainable development.
I trust that Sweden will also actively pursue the goal of a more open decision-making process.
Active crisis management is about trying to prevent conflicts.
Many issues revolve around the three Es.
The European asylum and refugee policy must be characterised by dignity and humanity - that was your message at the time.
To impose a visa requirement on 130 countries is not worthy of a democratic Europe.
We would like our regions to be able to engage in direct dialogue, so as to remove the disparity in employment levels that can exist between different regions and one Member State.
Mr President, Sweden has every right to be proud of its policy of making equal rights for men and women a reality.
For example there is a regulation on the table which regulates access to documents from the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I wish Sweden good luck in its first presidency.
The three Es are three good priorities that we share.
However, to move on to your second priority, employment, which relates to my temporary position in Parliament.
This primarily means better coordination between macroeconomic, especially, in our case, macrofinancial policy, and employment policy in the European Union.
Mr President, you will be chairing the new European Council in the spring, which will be the first Council to deal with general macroeconomic objectives along with employment objectives.
We also need coordination of all the various aspects of European policy in order to promote employment.
The Commission applies the current criteria.
The Council would probably be well advised to adjust the balance of these criteria.
Competition should also work in favour of employment.
We have the same need for internal policy coordination in the Union reforms of public procurement contract procedures or in the regulations for services of general interest.
And the only way to move forward is to establish harmonious cooperation between the three institutions: the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
Having said that, when discussing the Europe of values, you referred to the need to export the system of the Charter of Fundamental Rights to third countries.
If we are to expect third countries to adhere to certain values, to which we have not ourselves been capable of adhering, then perhaps the most logical interpretation is that you have now become a fervent supporter of making the Charter of Fundamental Rights binding in nature and perhaps even including it in the Treaties.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Europe of welfare must be subordinate to a Europe of values, since the essence of the European Union is an ongoing appeal for peace, understanding, harmony and solidarity, and we would appreciate your continuing to bear this in mind.
This is an issue on which, as you all know, there are different approaches within the Union, which is why we are going to have a difficult and complicated task on our hands over the next few months.
What has been said by Mr Poettering, Mr Barón Crespo and others on this subject is, of course, excellent and something to which I subscribe.
Look at environmental concern as a driving force and not as a brake and as nostalgia for a time which has passed.
Look at environmental concern as a visionary contribution to a better and more modern Europe.
I take note of what you have said about the environmental issue and I share your views to a great extent.
To put it more simply: how can we make use of the fact that we are cooperating within a European union in order, for example, to provide more stimulation for economic growth?
After all, the work which forms the core of the European Union has to do with the internal market and that method of working in terms of community legislation that is in the spirit of Monnet.
I do not wish to see a situation in which States and governments hold discussions between themselves which could be considered as being closed and secret and which make public control impossible.
Mr Olle Schmidt talked about policy on refugees and about a generous attitude on the part of the European Union towards those who turn to us in search of safety and protection.
I am very sympathetic to what Mr Olle Schmidt said in his speech about a humanitarian refugee policy.
We will first submit our proposals in the framework of a legislative procedure.
That is a very cordial request by the European Parliament, which has been calling since 1994 for an interinstitutional agreement of that kind to be reached.
The Swedish Presidency, as we have heard during the debate, has raised high hopes that we may achieve over the next six months the restoration of a unified Europe, but I believe the time for rhetoric has passed and what we are all looking for now are results.
I wonder if four questions could be transmitted to the Swedish Presidency.
First of all, does it intend to convene a council or a special meeting to which the government representatives of the candidate countries would be invited, not only to facilitate the negotiations, but to give the important signal to the public that enlargement is not merely a political exercise, a mirage, a constantly distant objective, but that we are genuinely making the progress which is required?
We all very much hope that in six months' time in Gothenburg, once again, it will not only be Sweden's day, but Europe's day.
The programme of the Swedish Presidency is full-bodied and ambitious, and it really is time environmental issues in their broadest context were finally taken to the core of any debate in the European Union.
The Member States have not even managed to agree about a common charge on carbon dioxide.
Furthermore, the strategy for sustainable development, which is going to be taken up for discussion in Gothenburg, will be severely compromised if the EU does not take a coordinated grip on these energy issues.
Mr President, Mr President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has made it very clear that the majority of Members of the European Parliament is disappointed by the outcome of Nice.
Mr President of the Council, Sweden has a great tradition of democracy and transparency.
I expect the Swedish Presidency to support us in our endeavour to remedy these weaknesses of Nice and to strengthen the legitimacy of democratic decisions in the European Union again, and I am convinced it will do so.
I want to address a second point.
The Swedish Finance Minister represents the European Union externally for general economic policy questions, while when it comes to the euro, to the euro currency, this job goes to the Belgian Finance Minister.
If you manage to persuade your fellow-countrymen that the euro is a good project, that it is stable from within, that its external stability is also constantly improving; if you can persuade them to support this great project of European integration, you will also help ensure that the citizens gain a better understanding of this aspect of the European Union.
The debate is closed.
Question Time (Council) The next item is Question Time (B5-0001/2001).
Prior to the summit meeting with China, a meeting was held in Brussels with officials from the country holding the presidency, the Commission and a Chinese delegation in order to identify and establish areas of possible future cooperation.
There are plans for further meetings of the same nature, and the next one will be held in Beijing in a few weeks' time.
The European Council gave the Union the task of intensifying cooperation in order to combat such cross-border crime.
The first step was an experts' meeting at the end of November last year attended by experts in the field from both Asia and Europe.
The recommendations from this meeting will be presented at ASEM' s meeting of Foreign Ministers in Beijing in May of this year.
Tens of thousands of women and girls are bought and sold in China every year, many of them to the West.
Trafficking in women is also rife within China.
It is a very good thing that you formed this council after the Dover scandal.
As the author is not present, Question No 2 lapses.
There are several consulates in Jeddah which can assist EU citizens during the pilgrimage.
Mr President, I thank the Swedish representative for his reply but it does not satisfy my enquiry.
However, those consular services are not available to Muslims from other EU Member States who would be there under the same terms and conditions operated by the Saudi authorities as UK Muslims.
I am convinced that, in this case, the United Kingdom's representation is acting with solidarity and treating all EU citizens equally.
Question No 4 by (H-0957/00): Subject: Market monitoring and the EC labelling system Is it possible at present to guarantee an adequate level of efficient market monitoring with regard to compliance with the provisions of EC labelling at European level?
The monitoring of how this EC labelling of products is used is a common concern for the Commission and the Member States.
It is primarily the Member States' responsibility to ensure, by means of approval or in some other way, that these bodies comply with the requirements for competence and that they operate effectively.
The Commission has been assigned a central role for ensuring uniformity and a high standard with regard to the monitoring bodies.
In turn, the Commission sets up programmes to ensure that the market monitoring is organised in a uniform way between the Member States.
As I said earlier in my initial reply to the honourable Member, in the first place it is the Commission which is to ensure uniformity with regard to the assessment of so-called compliances.
Question No 5 by (H-0965/00): Subject: Hunger strike by political prisoners in Turkey The spectre of death is haunting dozens of political prisoners in Turkey who have been on a hunger strike to the death for the past two months in protest at the inhuman conditions in Turkish prisons.
The Council has also given the issue priority in the draft partnership agreement that exists for the accession of Turkey, specifically by referring to strengthening legislation and taking all measures necessary to strengthen the fight against torture and to ensure that the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture is obeyed.
With regard to the lives which have unfortunately been lost during the recent riots in Turkish prisons and the report on torture and abuse during the transport of prisoners, the European Union has raised the issue in bilateral contacts with Turkish authorities.
In their contacts with the EU, the Turkish authorities have denied all allegations of torture and abuse.
The Council naturally intends to use all opportunities that exist within the framework of this agreement to ensure that developments in Turkey head in a direction which is compatible with the common values we hold in the EU.
The Swedish Presidency is actively working towards making as many debates as possible open within the formal frameworks which apply.
Nine such debates will be held in what could be regarded as the important and central Council constellations beginning this Friday when Ecofin is to hold a debate on its work programme.
Following this, the debates continue during the first half of the year up to the last public debate in the Council (culture) which, in June, shall discuss the protection of minors against damaging content in the media.
I think that it should be a matter of course in a democratic society for the citizens to have the right of access to their most important legislative body, and in the European Union that is of course largely the EU's Council of Ministers.
Question No 7 by (H-0970/00): Subject: Democracy and human rights in Belarus On a platform of shared values, the EU regards it as its duty to defend democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
Belarus, a neighbour of the applicant countries of Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, is a country in which none of the above three principles can be said to be upheld in an acceptable manner and there is clearly a risk that the effects may spread to the surrounding countries.
On 16 October 2000 in Minsk, the parliamentary troika of the EU, the Council of Europe and the OSCE delivered a sharply critical report on the lack of democracy in Belarus in connection with the elections held there.
The Council is well aware of the situation that has prevailed for a long time in that country and is following the developments very closely.
Therefore, the Council is particularly keen that, in the long term, Belarus is established as a partner and it is also keen to ensure stability in the region as a whole.
The three countries mentioned have all played an important and active part through their bilateral diplomatic relations with Belarus.
During the coming weeks, the Union will once more present its point of view directly to the authorities in Minsk.
It is a great pleasure and honour to be able to welcome here Lars Danielsson and the Swedish Presidency.
We cannot underestimate the possibility of what is happening in Belarus spreading, for we should never forget that the regime in Minsk in fact has blood on its hands.
In the work programme concerning the cooperation between the EU and Russia which the presidency will present in the General Affairs Council on Monday next week, there is much talk of the need for discussions with Russia concerning the situations in the neighbouring countries of Belarus and Ukraine.
Question No 8 by (H-0974/00): Subject: Women persecuted without asylum or refuge In some countries women suffer cruel persecution and punishment, basic human rights violations which may involve mutilation and may cost them their lives.
The factors which are discussed here will be taken into account when the Member States deal with asylum applications from those who have been subjected to such acts of cruelty.
The Council has also agreed that this system should be supplemented by measures for other forms of protection which provide a suitable status for those in need of such protection.
The Council is now awaiting the Commission's proposal and, when it arrives, the Swedish Presidency intends to treat it as a priority issue.
The Commission has also expressed its intention to table a proposal later this year for rules for the recognition and content of refugee status and supplementary forms of protection.
Resolution 1284 from 1999 provides the opportunity to lift the sanctions, provided the Iraqi Government cooperates fully with the UN inspectors responsible for disarmament in Iraq.
In this connection the Council also notes and welcomes the establishment of a working party within the UN which will draw up general recommendations on improving UN sanctions, on how they are to be better directed and on how to avoid unnecessary human suffering.
As the author is not present, Question No 10 lapses.
Since they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 11 and 12 will be taken together.
Question No 11 by Glenys Kinnock (H-0983/00): Subject: Burma Could the Council give an assessment of the progress, or otherwise, being made through their policy of 'constructive engagement' with the military regime in Rangoon?
The Council has on a number of occasions expressed its concern in statements and initiatives and in the EU's Common Position of 1996.
The Council has also repeatedly demanded that human rights be respected and specific measures taken towards democracy and national reconciliation.
The Council would hardly describe its policy as constructive engagement, but rather as an attempt to achieve change by applying pressure by means of sanctions and through dialogues.
As the honourable Member, Richard Corbett, reminded us, the EU's Common Position was tightened significantly in April of last year in the light of the Council's concern over the worsening situation in Burma/Myanmar.
The Union has made it clear, including at the last ministerial meeting between the EU and Asean in Vientiane in December of last year, that they are expecting the EU troika to be given the same opportunities to meet all the parties involved, whether they are from the Government, the National League for Democracy or ethnic minorities.
The ministerial meeting in Vientiane, which Burma/Myanmar participated in, presented an appropriate opportunity not only to strengthen the bonds which unite the EU and Asean but also to express the Union's concern regarding the situation in Burma/Myanmar directly to the Burmese foreign minister.
The Council has the same basic opinion as that expressed by Mrs Kinnock in her question, namely that it is obvious that we must impose stringent conditions on Burma/Myanmar with regard to human rights.
So, allow me to assure you that the Council fully shares Mrs Kinnock's concern with regard to the situation.
As you know, the next ministerial meeting between the EU and the ASEAN countries is due to take place in Europe.
At the moment we have a ban against travel into any of the EU Member States by any member of the military regime in Burma and their families.
Nevertheless, I am pleased to be able to take the opportunity, as also requested by the honourable Member, briefly to mention a few priorities with regard to the future policy for the Community's fishing fleet.
As the Council sees it, the obvious remedy for this situation in the long term is to establish a lasting balance between the fishing capacity and the available resources in order to enable a lasting and sustainable utilisation of living marine resources and to safeguard the future livelihood of the fishermen.
The presidency therefore intends to arrange a general debate in the Council on the follow-up to the development programmes which have been taking place over several years once the fourth of these development programmes has been completed on 31 December 2001.
This is part of the Cardiff process, and the Council is obliged to present such a document at the meeting of the European Council in Gothenburg.
In this connection we have invited the European Parliament to cooperate by submitting its opinion in January on the proposal for a recovery plan for cod in the Irish Sea, and these measures can come into effect as early as 14 February 2001.
I hope, therefore, that Parliament is willing to cooperate with the Council on this point.
However, I also realise that it is necessary to have cuts in order to ensure that we have sufficient resources for this generation and, indeed, future generations.
Thank you very much, Mr Danielsson, for having done more than your duty in this first Question Time.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 14 to 22 will be answered in writing.
Questions Nos 23 and 24 will not be taken since their subject is included in the agenda for the current part-session.
Whilst drawing up the second liberalisation package in 1989, the Council and the Commission agreed that Community air transport policy had to address the harmonisation of the regulatory framework applicable to civil aviation.
Subsequently, Council Regulation 3922/91 was established in which the technical requirements, known as Joint Aviation Requirements, formulated by the JAA, were given the force of law within the Community.
It is against this background that the Joint Aviation Requirements, known as JAR-OPS, agreed by the JAA in 1995, are now being transposed into European Union law.
However, there are areas in which Parliament needs to act.
Operators should have the responsibility for training, but this should be done on a harmonised basis, with a distinct, uniform, European-wide certification system which would be accepted by all Member States.
In addition, the cabin crew directive should now be incorporated into this regulation.
In this area, the social partners have been trying to reach an agreement for ten years.
However, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism recognise that the best people to deal with this problem are indeed the trade unions and the airline operators and, in a spirit of compromise, have agreed to give all sides until 1 May 2001 to reach an agreement that will form the text of a new Subpart Q.
Amendment No 16 addresses this problem, which was highlighted to me by the cabin crew themselves and even some airlines.
Whilst I appreciate that MEPs are amongst the worst culprits for excessive cabin baggage, I would hope their sense of responsibility would enable them to recognise that a problem exists, that this problem compromises safety and that Amendment No 16 should be supported.
However, in conclusion, I feel I must reiterate the warning I made earlier that we need an agreement on flight time limitation before 1 May from our social partners.
If they can deliver that agreement for us, then I believe we will have a document that we can rightly be proud of.
It is true that it became clear in 1989 with the liberalisation package that the European Community must not only ensure fair competition but must also ensure safety in aviation.
But at the same time we must also make it clear that Parliament and political bodies such as the Commission and the Council should not disregard the vote of experts.
So unfortunately we will not be able to vote for your Amendments Nos 9 and 10, which concern such proposals.
Mr President, Mr Simpson, Commissioner, I hoped for a moment, just after seeing the news - and in fact things were looking a bit that way - that we would start with a debate on fox hunting, which will doubtless prove to be an extremely lively debate in Britain' s House of Commons this evening.
Let me address a second point that caught my attention at the December Council meeting.
If we adopt a position at first reading, in fact at Parliament's final vote tomorrow, then I insist as I am sure my colleagues will also do on the Council deciding a common position.
In addition, it should be recognised that JAR-OPS has been implemented on a national basis and is applicable to European countries outside the EU.
The Commission's original proposal highlighted four areas which were found to be incompatible in EU law: exemptions, leasing, registration and cabin crew training.
Sufficient regulation is already in place, which does not allow on board hand baggage which cannot be safely stowed - I can vouch for that as a cabin crew member for 26 years.
On my second point - flight time limitations, which are already highly regulated and agreed through national governments - civil aviation is now included in working time regulation.
Irrespective of the decision taken on 1 May, this issue would have to be referred back to national governments for further discussion.
It is not for Parliament to legislate on flight time limitations.
Finally, I believe that in future safety and highly technical reports such as this should be subject to a simplified procedure in order to process necessary changes more speedily.
Mr President, Commissioner, there are some things that are not quite as we would wish them to be in European aviation.
Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission, in the past, Parliament has continually demonstrated its commitment to the harmonisation of safety standards at the highest possible level for the Union.
We all agree that the objective is to successfully do away with national discrepancies in order to arrive at a set of common safety standards at the highest possible level.
Air safety cannot be confined to European Union territory, and it is important for European citizens who travel or live near airports to be confident that aircraft from third countries fulfil all the necessary safety criteria.
It is therefore inevitable that safety in this sector should become a matter for international cooperation within the framework of the different instruments for technical assistance and support for investment in third countries.
Mr President, I will end by pointing out the need to assist the Commission in its work in this very complicated field and the priority which must be given to creating the European Air Safety Agency, as well as the need for independent regulations, which we are currently considering, on issues relating to rest periods for aircrew.
Having said that, the amendment we are proposing to the Regulation currently in force has twin objectives: firstly, it intends to move forward with the harmonisation of the regulatory system in the field of safety in civil aviation by extending it to the harmonisation of the operational requirements for aircraft; secondly, it intends to establish procedures which will allow the Community to manage the variables and exceptions which the Member States are obliged to adopt from time to time as a result of operational needs.
With regard to technical requirements, the report mainly deals with two aspects.
In any event, of the relevant amendments, the Commission accepts the spirit of Amendments Nos 12, 13 and 17, but with a different wording.
With regard to Amendment No 1, the Commission shares Parliament' s desire to regulate the safety of flight and duty times and rest periods, but prefers that compliance with this objective not only be pursued by means of the specific proposal that we are debating today.
There are other possibilities, such as amending the Regulation after the adoption of the present proposal.
I would like to add that any proposal presented by the Commission in the future will have to guarantee the high level of safety that we all wish to see.
Various amendments have also been adopted on the requirements applicable to cabin crews.
Amendments Nos 9 and 10 can be accepted without changes, but the wording of Amendments Nos 6, 7, 8 and 11 will have to be modified, as well as Amendments Nos 12, 13 and 17, which we now accept only in principle, and their wording will also have to be modified.
Finally, the amendments on technical requirements, specifically Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 16, are acceptable, although the final text of Amendment No 4 will reflect the solution to the problem in question as found by the Council.
In relation to the procedures for the approval of temporary variables and exceptions, the Commission does not accept Amendments Nos 2, 14 and 15.
Lastly, with regard to Amendment No 18, the two issues it addresses are concerned more with the health of passengers than the operational safety of flights.
As was mentioned in the Communication on the protection of air passengers, the Commission intends to establish groups of experts to examine the risks to passengers' health, including those resulting from cosmic radiation, with the aim of determining what these risks are and proposing the necessary measures.
With regard to the specific issue of arterial thrombosis - which has been raised by some of you - the Commission has written to the airlines to request that they provide passengers with information on the risks, on factors for predisposition and on what they can do to minimise those risks, specifically in relation to the problem of thrombosis and in relation to health problems in general.
The Commission considers that such information would be a very valid precaution and that it would be appropriate in terms of improving passengers' rights.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Safety on our roads is something which concerns us all, whether we ourselves are road-users or whether someone in our family or a friend has been killed or injured.
The objective in the long-term should be that no-one should be killed or seriously injured.
The Commission' s communication contains a list of priorities for measures for the remaining period of the Programme.
In my report, I went on to concentrate on the forthcoming period of the Programme, which would have to cover a longer period - let us say, the period 2002-2010 - to enable a more long-term strategy to be adopted.
But objectives at EU level are not sufficiently concrete for the Member States where, as we all know, a large part of the work is done.
However, after that, the Commission should follow up how the Member States comply with their strategies and should take part in the exchange of experiences and best practice.
Alcohol kills approximately 9 000 people on the roads each year.
I expect the Council and the Swedish Presidency to take the initiative in this matter.
EU cooperation is needed more than ever, as there are dramatic differences in the levels of road safety within our Community.
Four times as many people die in road accidents in Portugal than in Britain.
I will mention three important ways of reducing the number of road fatalities.
Around two out of every three drivers in Europe go over the speed limit in built-up areas and half break the speed limit on the open road.
Certainly in my country, Finland, the EUR 100 000 fines paid by some amount to just routine fare collections.
Secondly, in vino veritas: there is truth in wine.
In fact this Commissioner pledged to this House in January last year, a year ago, that we would have a directive on safer car fronts.
I hope tonight and tomorrow the Commission listens to the vote of this House and decides to proceed with its commitment to have a directive on safer car fronts.
We have had talk on this issue, year in, year out.
We all know that ten thousand people a year in Europe are killed in drink-related crashes.
But I find it highly ironic, and I am sure the timing is not coincidental, that on the very day that we are debating blood alcohol, drink driving, road safety, the day before this Parliament is to vote on drink driving, the Commissioner has already made her mind up.
It would have been nice, would it not, for the Commissioner to have at least listened to the debate, learned what the outcome of the vote was tomorrow, before she decided to pre-empt the parliamentary procedures and issue this recommendation.
We believe it is time for the Commissioner to get tough on drunk drivers and drink driving, to come forward with a directive to reduce the limit to 50 mg.
In the United Kingdom, which has traditionally had a good record, we have sadly seen over the Christmas period a rise in the numbers of people drinking and driving.
Indeed the British government is asking for a solution at European level, in a European context.
After 22 years of EU subsidised research, it is clear beyond all doubt that these tests are of value and that hundreds of lives can be spared every year as a result.
Some members of my group will support the rapporteur' s proposal to produce an EU regulation setting an alcohol limit of 0.5 per cent.
Now, Commissioner, I would just like to unburden myself of the fact that I think it is extremely discourteous towards Parliament that the Commissioner evidently already decided, in advance of this evening' s debate - in which, when all is said and done, people are calling for a regulation on the alcohol limit - that a recommendation to the Member States will suffice.
Furthermore, the Commission communication on priorities in road safety contains six points detailing the aspects on which we can have the greatest impact in order to achieve better results.
Serious studies have concluded that the majority of serious accidents or deaths amongst these groups result from impacts with crash barriers, that is to say, against roadside protective barriers or against vertical road signs, both of which are designed and created for four-wheeled vehicles.
The majority of these accidents happen at the black spots which some Member States are indicating and identifying.
Let us legislate, let us seek a greater degree of harmonisation, let us promote measures for the rational and safe use of roads by pedestrians and cyclists, and let us seek formulas to reduce heavy traffic, at least in populated areas; let us harmonise the speed limits by means of an ambitious legal framework, as the Commission recommended in 1986, thereby removing the Member States' inertia.
These are estimated at EUR 100 billion, accounting for some 2% of the gross domestic product of all the European Member States.
That is why we will reject the first part of Amendment No 4.
Talk to your countries.
Most countries agree with the common view of this House that 0.5 parts per thousand is quite adequate, as the Commission rightly said.
Secondly, we will not accept Amendment No 6 either, with which the Greens are once again trying to start another sham debate, namely on a general speed limit of 120 km/h.
And it not only behoves an organised state not to be stupid in its own acts and omissions; it must also protect its citizens from the consequences of their own stupidity.
Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of the report on priorities in EU road safety, as it includes a number of practical measures which may reduce, at least slightly, the number of deaths in road accidents.
Even on the limited question of truck-on-train technology, what happens in actual practice is the opposite of the official line.
On a more general note, a sensible approach to transport would require a sensible approach to manufacturing, an approach, in other words, that does not place profit above all else.
Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission, I checked the statistics while preparing this short intervention and I was shocked to discover that, statistically at least, more than 55 people have been killed on the roads of the European Union since we convened this morning.
Road traffic accidents are the most common cause of death among children and young people.
Add to that the fact that I personally have the unhappy privilege of coming from the Member State with the second highest number of fatal accidents in Europe.
And what is more, Greece is the only country in Europe in which, unfortunately, there has been no downward trend over the last ten years.
It is, for example, unfortunate that no legislative proposal has been submitted on the compulsory adoption of the four types of test designed to make car fronts safer for pedestrians, a research programme which, it should be noted, the European Union has been funding for the past 22 years.
Mrs De Palacio, I am sure that you are familiar with part of your communication which highlights a disturbing disparity between the different Member States in the quality and safety of roads and number of victims claimed.
The same applies to drinking.
We feel that the Commission should present a directive setting the maximum blood alcohol limit at 0.5 parts per thousand for all the Member States.
The principle of subsidiarity is all very well - although I feel that it would be grossly inappropriate to take away the licences of all drunk drivers - but the problem is working out at what point a driver is to be considered drunk according to our highway code.
Commissioner, I feel that employing this sort of courage is the simplest and most effective, but also the only way of achieving the ambitious objective we have set ourselves of reducing the number of victims claimed by the roads of the European Union by 40% over the next few years.
All I want is that we should take the problem of these 95% as seriously as we do the problem of the 5% of accidents which occur in connection with the other types of transport.
Our society is becoming increasingly mobile, and I am in favour of it.
The construction method of transport modes, as also road design and people themselves, are weak points.
One point is especially close to my heart: measures against drink driving but also against the use of medicines and drugs when driving.
Mr President, Commissioner, road accidents are the most frequent cause of death and serious injury among children and young people, in fact generally among EU citizens under the age of 45.
Apart from setting out a clear obligation, Articles 41 and 94 of the EC Treaty also provide us with the legal basis which some Members of this House doubt for a great number of effective measures to improve road user safety.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is interesting to listen to this discussion and it will be interesting to continue working on the issue of road traffic safety in Parliament after this discussion and after our decision tomorrow.
Turning now, Mr Bautista, to the issue of black spots, which was raised by the Greens, I believe that it is important for us to keep an eye on what happens.
Finally, there is the matter of education and the situation of children.
In response to the European Parliament' s request, I would remind you that last March the Commission presented a communication on road safety which listed a series of concrete measures to be implemented over the next few years, specifically the last two years of implementation of the second action programme on road safety.
I would like to stress that, in general, I am in complete agreement with the contents of the report and also with what the resolution itself says, both with regard to the action programme under way, whose implementation will soon be completed, and with regard to the future road safety programme which the Commission intends to present in the next few months.
I also wish the European Union to have an effective and lasting policy for reducing the number of accidents, which is currently completely unacceptable.
In the first stage we will have to implement the final priority measures established within the framework of the road safety programme, which is currently under way and, in particular, propose that the obligation to install speed-limiting devices be applicable to a greater number of lorries, specifically by lowering the tonnage above which such a measure is required.
Furthermore, we will have to promote the exchange of information on black spots and the techniques for reducing them and, in general, to increase the safety of road infrastructures and adopt measures to improve the car fronts in the event of collision with vulnerable users of the road network.
The second stage must include the adoption of a more systematic approach with regard to the future action programme, for which we must establish quantifiable objectives on a European scale, which will be drawn up with the cooperation of the Member States, in order to achieve greater efficiency and complementarity between the measures adopted in Brussels and those established on a national level.
Because it is clear that the establishment of specific objectives - as we have seen in those countries which have adopted them - provides a stimulus and has the effect of a psychological incentive on the authorities, which leads to them exercising better control and therefore to a reduction in accidents.
Nevertheless, I do not intend today to deal with the aspects on which we agree - you know these from the communication - but I would like to expand a little more on the reasons for the two points of disagreement.
The first is drink-driving.
Yesterday or the day before, the written procedure on the recommendation for 0.5 to be the maximum limit for alcohol in the blood was finally adopted by the Commission.
Please do not imagine that the date has been in any way chosen to coincide with this debate.
It is not enough to recommend or to lay down that an alcohol limit be respected if the national authorities then fail to adequately control the reality of that alcohol content in drivers' blood.
Do not tell me that the United Kingdom wants a European directive to resolve a problem in Great Britain because I would not believe it.
The Commission wishes to act in the most effective way and, sometimes, delaying an initiative for a few months can, in reality, be a much quicker way to ensure that it is implemented.
With regard to the future action programme for 2002-2010, we are a priori open to all the ideas included in the motion for a resolution.
Mr President, my name was mentioned.
I am sure that the DG on Transport and Energy has a copy of the UK's road safety strategy that was published in March 2000.
It makes it very clear that the new government in the United Kingdom is committed to a solution within a European context.
I believe you would now find a much more positive response to a proposal for a directive than perhaps was the case with the previous administration.
Mr President, on a point of order.
If I have understood my colleague correctly, then it is enough to have a recommendation that the UK Government will lower the blood-alcohol level.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
As matters stand, intermodality poses a series of drawbacks stemming from the lack of integration between the various modes of transport, together with deficiencies peculiar to some of these modes.
The development of intermodality hinges primarily upon the level of efficiency provided by the rail services on offer, which unfortunately, in many Member States, rate poorly in terms of quality, efficiency and cost-effectiveness.
Moreover, as the Commission has pointed out on several occasions, the development of infrastructure continues to focus on unimodal systems, whereas intermodal transport requires a network-based approach focusing on complementarity and connections between the various modes.
Lastly, open intermodal information systems able to manage intermodal transport and network services efficiently and to guarantee a rational and constant real-time information and message flow have yet to be put in place.
Furthermore, the differing profitability and service quality levels amongst the various modes of transport do not sit easily alongside notions of customer satisfaction and real-time goods transfers.
The culprit is the absence of broad electronic message systems linking different partners in the intermodal chain and the lack of an identification and information system for goods organised on an intermodal basis.
Clearly, the intermodal transport framework in Europe varies somewhat, with totally contrasting circumstances apparent in the various Member States.
The aims which the EU intends to pursue through the development of intermodality relate to the need to establish an integrated system comprising the various transport modes which offers seamless, customer-tailored door-to-door services, makes for efficient and cost-effective use of the transport system and promotes competition between operators.
The Commission has also planned a series of horizontal measures, using research and technological development projects to introduce innovation aimed at utilising new technologies to develop innovative services and increase productivity.
The globalisation and liberalisation of the markets are already producing a substantial increase in the demand for the transportation of goods and commodities.
Finally, I would like to thank the Members who contributed actively to the preparation of a resolution acceptable to the majority of the committee.
But before we reach that point, numerous obstacles still have to be cleared away in terms of legislation, matters of a technical and practical nature.
If we look at the advances that have been made since the excellent action programme of 1997, then we see a number of positive aspects, for example the task force transport intermodality.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in transport policy we still do not pay intermodal transport the attention it deserves.
Hitherto, in fact, only 8% of European freight transport is intermodal, as my colleague just said.
But intermodal goods transport is both the expression and the measure of the European integration strategy, which seeks to integrate not only the individual, national transport markets but also the various transport modes.
Following the liberalisation strategy that is not quite completed yet and the harmonisation that has begun, the single market needs this integration strategy if it is to have a viable future.
That is why the reports on the progress in implementing the action programme for intermodal transport also reflects the progress made in European transport policy.
For we do not yet have any real operators in this area.
The report and the Commission communication propose many actions worthy of support that would increase the volume of intermodal transport.
Incidentally, I am not in agreement with the advantage enjoyed by the Galileo project in these matters, but that is something we should discuss on another occasion.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, road safety, intermodality, the costs of transport infrastructure: my perspective on these issues, placed one after the other on today's agenda, is that of one who is concerned with the problems of mountainous areas, particularly the Alps.
The subject of road safety brings to mind the Mont Blanc tunnel tragedy, which is an example of the need for European coordination guaranteeing safety in both operative tunnels and those under construction.
I would also like to thank all the Members who have spoken in the debate today.
The Commission agrees that an efficient intermodal transport system for goods is crucial to the Union and the candidate countries and, of course, it is essential if we want to guarantee mobility in the coming years.
The Commission will evaluate the intermodal transport infrastructures in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in order thereby to facilitate the revision of the guidelines for the Trans-European Transport Network.
The European Reference Centre for intermodal transport, with its headquarters in Strasbourg, will be operational this year and will be soliciting the information which the intermodal industry needs and which may help in the creation of new policies.
The Commission intends to continue supporting intermodal transport, through research in the framework programmes for technological research and development and also by extending and enlarging the pilot actions for combined transport (the PACTs).
As the report indicates, we will have to invest in the necessary infrastructure and its management.
We wish to study the use of current budgetary resources, reconsidering their use, in order to promote the large-scale assimilation of intermodal transport by industry.
With regard to the White Paper on the common transport policy, as well as the delivery of the revised Trans-European Networks, which I have promised you, I hope that the Commission will be able to definitively approve a text on that issue over the next few weeks.
Intermodal transport is one of the key elements in it.
The work that we have undertaken has confirmed that the knowledge, systems and technologies exist in Europe to carry out this type of activity, which facilitates the safe and durable transport of goods.
The charging policies that we are going to present will support the competitiveness of intermodal transport.
I am also very happy with the agreement between Parliament and the Commission on this issue and I can assure you that the services of the TREN Directorate-General will continue to play an active role in the promotion of intermodal transport.
I would like to end by thanking the rapporteur and all the speakers and I hope I will continue being able to count on your work and cooperation on this subject, when it comes to discussing the White Paper on transport.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
As you know, it derived from a 1995 Commission Green Paper, which called for measures to internalise the external costs incurred by environmental, safety and congestion considerations, in order to bring about a fairer and more efficient system of charging users for access to transport infrastructure.
We can therefore now picture the enormous effort before Europe - the Europe of today and the Europe of tomorrow - in the process of constructing new infrastructure, the effort of involving private capital in this operation as well, which would not be possible if we do not succeed in identifying this situation.
The next step is to consider that, where the attribution of some of these costs is meaningless, as, for example, in the case of the Italian motorways, which have already fully achieved their payback - the revenue from these charges which exist today could constitute funds to be used in cross-subsidies, in order to ensure that certain costs charged to road users serve to improve infrastructure in other modes of transport which are certainly more environmentally friendly.
Well then, these practices can now, in my opinion, be generalised and made available to everyone.
After all, normally the Commission's proposals always take account of the Member States' views, and perhaps in future they will also take more account of Parliament's views.
Last point: in relation to external costs I have two requests.
Secondly, we must differentiate when we calculate these external costs.
The same problems are occurring in regions and Member States across the European Union.
I hope Mr Costa's work, his report and the conclusions we will reach tomorrow will provide a framework within which we can begin to tackle these problems.
We must promote better understanding of our common problems and, indeed, find common solutions to them across the European Union, but on the basis of consensus and mutual understanding.
Secondly, we must promote an exchange of ideas.
Many localities and regions have excellent ideas, and that knowledge and information must be disseminated throughout the European Union.
Indeed, that is my third point: Europe has a key role to play here in disseminating best practice as to how best we tackle the transport challenge.
Fourthly and finally, in terms of what Europe's contribution can be within the framework of this particular initiative, I hope that governments, local authorities and those implementing taxes and charges can do so within a framework that is developed and integrated at a European level, and do it together.
But that was more than adequately addressed when we said to the Commission: you have a key role to play in trying to pull this research together.
I can refer to a letter from the organisation that represents the motoring clubs across Europe, including, for example, the AA and RAC, who are broadly sympathetic and supportive of our work, because they know that unless Europe takes a lead on this issue, unless we begin pulling together the best of the ideas from across the European Union, then the cities, towns and rural areas, will continue to suffer from unacceptable levels of congestion and pollution.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Costa, for his most excellent work.
Charges for the use of the transport infrastructure must take account of the costs to society, but also the ability-to-pay principle and the need to support remote areas.
If I can draw something of a comparison between the way in which the discussion on the changes in the agricultural policy is now taking place against the backdrop of the problems surrounding food safety - in Germany, among a number of other countries, my own included - then I predict than something similar will happen where the transport policy is concerned, and the environmental problems we are now experiencing, irrespective of the failed climate conferences, etc.
The former is currently widely favoured as an economic activity, whereas the latter allows freedom of movement, a fundamental freedom.
That should then drive us to consider the need to improve services of general interest in these sectors that are so important to the people and to the economy.
Any infrastructure charging system, like the one proposed in my group' s amendment, should improve the services of general interest, which some transport services provide, in order to offer all citizens equal access to high-quality, safe and affordable services.
In our efforts to secure sustainable mobility, we must concentrate specifically on those forms of transport which do society and the environment the least damage.
Moreover, the current situation is clear - the White Paper and the Green Paper illustrated it perfectly: there is a great problem because of the environmental and social costs we have to bear and because of the attack on free trade that the difference in taxes and taxation systems in our countries imposes upon their economic systems.
I recall the benchmarks that we all share: greater proportionality with regard to use in the distribution of costs, attentiveness to social costs, but also protection of disadvantaged geographical areas and sectors of the population, "yes" to environmental sustainability but, at the same time, reconfirmation of the right to mobility as a universal right.
The only recommendation I would venture to make, Commissioner, is that all this is good, particularly the shift to the "user pays" principle, but with the reservation that we cannot allow this principle to penalise the citizens or businesses.
Quality in the context of transport, in my opinion, means above all safety, accessibility and coordination of infrastructures.
Mr President, I would like to add to the praise for Mr Costa, the rapporteur, because this is an extremely difficult subject and there are very conflicting opinions.
Furthermore, he has had many amendments to work through.
The issue of charging is therefore absolutely central to this matter and if we really wish to improve transport we need to be in a position to absorb efficiently the external costs of transport; as mentioned; in other words, so that road transport actually pays for all the costs it entails, as does rail transport, and so that the prices charged accurately reflect this transparency regarding costs.
They believe that they have the right to freedom of movement, something I think we should bear in mind, and very often they do not differentiate freight transport and the private car.
A selective approach is needed, because I believe that we have to distinguish between private transport and goods transport and that we may also have to gradually introduce taxes on heavy goods vehicles, if we really wish to improve pollution in regions like ours, that act as crossroads.
However, it is up to the Member States to set and levy charges, albeit in a common framework.
Transport costs should be paid by the user, but governments should not charge rural users if there is no public transport, and this report makes that very clear.
This report is about a level playing field: not to charge more but to charge more efficiently.
Other EU countries' average is ten times lower HTV taxes.
Nobody knows precisely how much this amounts to, but one thing we do know is that it is not directly re-invested in roads and other forms of infrastructure.
This report addresses the balance between revenue and expenditure; intangible costs such as environmental and noise-related costs are also taken into account.
This report talks about balancing the payment of social costs between the different modes of transport.
Road and passenger traffic already pay far more than their share in terms of social costs.
We therefore need this gradual implementation, which seems to me to be absolutely essential because, when we speak of tariffs in relation to internal and external costs, in the fullest sense of the word, which is currently difficult to define, we are talking about an increase in cost for the user.
Therefore, in fact, we are talking about favouring rail transport.
It is clear that these tariffs are going to produce an increase in the cost to users so that they might consider the possibility of using public transport and the possibility of making more rational use of the railways - both for goods and for passenger transport.
One of the undesirable effects is that the cost to roads will rise by a relatively small amount, around 10 to 15%.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the Costa report the discussion about a common framework for levying transport infrastructure charges has got going again.
If we want a single market that works, we need a transport system that works, in which the conditions of competition are equal or at least comparable for all those involved in transport.
To prevent that discussion also means preventing the integration of the various modes of transport and is therefore no more than lobbying, or a policy of lobbying for the status quo.
I would like to say that, with regard to such a sensitive and thorny issue as charging for infrastructures, it is a great achievement - and I stress this - to have almost squared the circle, because it is really difficult to reach a consensus on a proposal such as this.
This report is based on a series of seminars with the members of the Commission' s own high level group on charging for infrastructures and on an information conference on best practice in charging for infrastructures.
The report also coincides with the Commission' s policy on charging for transport infrastructures.
The Commission believes that the lack of coordination in fiscal policies, the lack of coordination in Member States' charging, hinders the efficiency of transport operations and restricts the development of the single market and economic integration.
Whatever the treatment of the different means of transport, it imposes real costs on European companies and on society in general.
The Commission' s policy of charging for infrastructures provides a framework for the reform of charges and taxes on transport, with a view to reflecting environmental costs, infrastructure costs and the cost of managing demand for transport.
Progress has been made, as in the case of the approval in December of the measures on railway infrastructures through the conciliation procedure.
I am therefore pleased to be able to assure Parliament that the concerns highlighted in the report in relation to charging for infrastructures will be taken fully into account in the next Commission White Paper on the common transport policy, which I referred to previously and which, although somewhat later than the dates initially envisaged, will enable us to make progress in solving one the most complex problems of that transport policy: charging for infrastructures.
Thank you very much, Mrs de Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.40 p.m.)
