President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I am grateful to the Members of this Parliament for the opportunity to provide an update on developments in Belarus, and in particular to report on the outcome of last Monday's discussion on this issue in Council.
As many of you will be aware, following the Council's decision last October to suspend temporarily and partially the visa-ban list, we have seen a number of positive developments in Belarus.
This should be the way forward in our relations with Belarus.
These were the considerations which lay behind our decision on 16 March.
The in-depth review foreseen by the end of this nine-month period will concentrate on the five areas set out in the Council's conclusions of October 2008.
It is important that our policy of engagement has been openly supported by representatives of civil society in Belarus, who took part recently in a very helpful discussion with Members of this Parliament.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, Belarus is at a crossroads.
Suspending the sanctions for longer enables us to maintain a dialogue, just as the civil society itself expressly asked us to do, including at the forum held at the European Parliament, as recently as 4 March.
At the same time, we are holding on to the tool at our disposal, since the sanctions may be reintroduced at the end of the year if we consider that the progress made by then is insufficient, and we are going to continue our examination by paying ongoing attention to the situation on the ground with regard to whether progress has been made in the five key areas identified in the GAERC's conclusions of last October.
Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the European Parliament's initiative to send a delegation of members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Parliament Delegation for Relations with Belarus, which will travel to Minsk in 10 days' time to meet with the authorities and the various parties and to get an idea of the situation on the ground.
Ladies and gentlemen, developing our relations with this neighbour located at the heart of Europe requires us to take the time to reflect on a response, including in the longer term, to the progress made by Belarus.
This Partnership will provide Belarus with an opportunity to develop new support and exchange networks with all its neighbours, including on behalf of Belarusian civil society, which wants to end its isolation and take part in the forum on civil society.
It is therefore open to question whether this apparent thaw in relations between the EU and Belarus will lead us anywhere, as Lukashenko may well be playing a game with Russia as he leans more towards the EU.
If progress is made on these points over the next few months, we believe that further EU restrictions can then be lifted.
At the same time repression continues against the Association of Poles in Belarus, Catholic priests are being expelled, and Belsat Television, the only independent television which broadcasts to Belarus, has been refused registration of an office in Minsk.
We are inviting Belarus to cooperate with us, but we have not forgotten that it is still the last undemocratic country in Europe.
The Belarusian Government, which controls the main mass media and uses them not for information but for propaganda, is already announcing triumphantly that the European Union accepts the 'Belarusian model', in which democracy and freedom can be restricted.
As long as political activists remain under arrest in Belarus, as long as young democratic opposition activists are forcefully conscripted, and as long as demonstrations are forcefully broken up by the militia and independent journalists are fined for their words and publications, the leaders of Belarus do not have the right to expect partnership and a conciliatory approach from European leaders, from the Council, the Commission and our Parliament. - (LT) Belarus is at the centre of Europe and I believe it should be interested in having good relations both with the European Union and its other neighbour Russia.
I believe that all Members of the European Parliament, regardless of the group they are working in, are very unhappy about this situation and would demand that Minsk abolish the death penalty at the earliest opportunity.
Mr Beazley, the point of order has been clarified.
I would like to remind you that for Russian citizens the Schengen visa is half this price. - (PL) It is important to keep working on building new relations between the European Union and Belarus.
I repeat: intervene when citizens' rights are violated. - (HU) European policy on the Belarus issue was unambiguous.
We are very cautious in our dealings with President Lukashenko, but a new direction in this area is welcome.
On 25 March 1988 Christians who had been demonstrating peacefully for a free press and freedom of religion were brutally dispersed by the police and the army.
Based on my personal experience with the totalitarian regime in Slovakia, I do not believe that a totalitarian leader is capable of transforming himself into a democrat in heart and mind.
Subject to progress made towards democracy, human rights and the rule of law, we remain ready to deepen our relations with Belarus.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, honourable Members, once again I will be very quick.
The European Union has made a commitment in this regard to monitor very closely developments concerning the following five key issues: political prisoners, electoral law, freedom of the media, freedom of NGOs and freedom of assembly.
From our perspective, in fact, this is a necessary process that is still in its infancy and that requires our ongoing attention.
