The Commission continues to attach the greatest importance to all measures aimed at ensuring better protection of workers’ health and safety, for these are factors essential to the quality of life in the work place.
Nonetheless, the Commission has accepted the approach adopted in the Council common position, which consists of introducing differential treatment to reduce the risks arising from exposure to natural sources such as the sun or to artificial sources such as lasers or ultraviolet lamps.
Regarding exposure to artificial sources, the proposal lays down exposure limit values and provides for a series of preventative measures, including risk assessment carried out in advance with a view to removing the risks or reducing them to a minimum.
Regarding exposure to natural sources whose presence and intensity are beyond man’s control, it has not been deemed appropriate to apply exposure limit values.
In this case, the directive nonetheless emphasises the importance of informing and training workers, as well as of carrying out a prior assessment of the risks, taking account of simple protective measures adapted to the situation on the ground.
A ‘framework directive’ of the European Economic Community, adopted in 1989, constitutes the basis of the legal environment.
The provisions of this directive stipulate that, in order to ensure workers’ health and safety, employers have a general obligation to evaluate all possible risks that could have an adverse effect on workers’ health while carrying out their occupational activities.
The framework directive, then, sets out this general obligation to ensure that workers can be protected from all adverse effects.
On issues relating to radiation from artificial sources, a fairly broad consensus was achieved in the course of Parliament’s work and the conciliation process that took place with representatives of the Commission and the Council.
On the other hand, the question of solar radiation, in other words radiation from natural sources, proved controversial, so I would like to say a few words about it.
The essence of this compromise is that, on account of the extremely varied circumstances prevailing in relation to solar radiation, it would make sense for detailed provisions and specific measures to be elaborated at the level of the Member States.
In the spirit of subsidiarity, this compromise proposes that, in the case of radiation from natural sources, the task of setting out appropriate provisions should be the competence of the individual countries.
It is obvious that the situation is very different in Sweden and in Greece, in Spain and in Germany.
It therefore makes sense to give individual countries the opportunity to define the obligations that employers will be expected to meet.
At the same time, however, I also consider it an important achievement that broad agreement was reached on numerous issues relating to the report; for example, the Council indicated that it was willing to accept the proposal supported by all political groups in Parliament: to draw up a practical technical guide, which we are now awaiting from the Commission.
It would be a great result if this guide were also part of the directive.
I ask my colleagues and Parliament to support the version of the directive, and those proposed amendments to it, that create a balance between European-level provisions laying down minimum obligations and the practical possibilities and responsibilities of the Member States.
I therefore ask you to support these compromises.
I regret that you, Mr Barrot, are unable at the start of the debate to indicate the Commission’s position on this issue and that you are unable to say whether the Commission is prepared to defend the position of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Moreover, I do not appreciate the fact that the Council representatives have so far not been in contact, particularly because the politicians in the Member States say that we should actually take a different course in Europe, while the Commission’s bureaucrats who pore over this topic say that we must remain faithful to what we have.
I am therefore delighted that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs’ response to our amendments has been very positive.
We admit that there is a danger, but Member States, along with employers in conjunction with the Member States, should decide for themselves whether, and when, measures should be taken.
He worked very closely with all the shadow rapporteurs, improved an already pretty good common position and produced a good draft report for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
It is only a pity that that good work was put in jeopardy by the stance taken by his own group, the PPE-DE, and a faction in the Liberal Group on one aspect of the proposal: the provisions relating to the occupational risks arising from exposure to natural radiation.
However, this time I sense something more than an attempt to grab cheap tabloid headlines, something more ideologically driven.
I believe that those sitting behind Mr Őry and trying to undermine his work think that, with the stalling of much of Europe's social agenda, they have a chance to push for deregulation and the renationalisation of important elements of the social legal base.
In reality, our amendments on natural radiation have nothing to do with the ridiculous stories fed to the media.
Secondly, by taking the sentence from the Council, granting Member States a role in determining the criteria to apply to the risk assessment in the light of national circumstances, we are acknowledging the obvious fact that, as both speakers have already said, the risk from natural radiation is somewhat lower in Newcastle than it is in Naples.
Although the right try to deny it, the 1999 Framework Directive clearly imposes a duty on employers to assess all occupational risks.
The 1992 directive on construction sites certainly goes further and specifically mentions environmental considerations.
That is exactly what we are trying to do in our amendments, by seeking to highlight the provision of information to workers.
More than 69&#160;000 new cases are diagnosed in the UK each year and over 2&#160;000 people die each year in the UK from skin cancer.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation on this directive.
I now hope that all MEPs, including the Socialists, will see sense and either completely remove natural radiation from this directive, or at least pass the compromise that we voted for in committee and leave it up to Member States.
It would bring the EU into further disrepute if we legislate against the sun in the workplace.
Apart from that, this is a reasonably sensible directive, to protect people like welders from artificial radiation, but we should not include natural radiation from the sun.
I am sure that I do not need to point out to the House that this directive is solely concerned with prevention and with protective measures in the workplace and with improving precautions against skin cancers – not least as an occupational illness.
Essentially, we would have no need of rules and regulations if, for example, the old dress codes to deal with natural optical radiation were still in place, with it being taken for granted that someone working in the sun would wear a hat and clothing to protect the skin.
The question that we have to answer today is whether or not we want to protect these workers better against optical radiation, just as we do against noise, vibration and electro-magnetic radiation, and do so, moreover, to an equal degree in every Member State, and whether or not we want to guarantee the recognition of skin cancer as an occupational illness throughout the EU.
We must not shuffle off our own powers and responsibilities onto the Member States, who are responsible for implementation.
While health is a fundamental asset for every individual, it also has an economic dimension, so we should adopt the Council’s proposed minimum requirements – remembering that they are minimum requirements! – while rejecting Articles 4 and 5, which have been completely watered down.
As a matter of principle, we Greens share the Socialist Group’s position and call for minimum standards for proper protection at work in all EU Member States. &#160;&#160; . – The protection of workers’ health and safety has already been the subject of a number of directives in areas such as vibration, noise and electromagnetic fields.
That is what happened in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in respect of Articles 4(2) and 5(2), as mentioned previously, in an attempt to ensure that these proposals did not cover workers in relation to optical radiation.
Of course, Member States may take account of the nature of the activities undertaken and levels of exposure to the sun, and may lay down specific criteria for such a risk assessment to observe.
This is why we have tabled proposals aimed at reinstating at least basic levels of protection for all workers in the EU. &#160;&#160; Mr President, why do we in this House continue to bring ridicule on ourselves by promoting such egregious measures as this one?
In Germany the media have mocked it because of its effect on Bavarian barmaids' bosoms.
Time-consuming programmes of action to deal with sunburn will be devised; lifeguards in open-air swimming pools will virtually have to wrap themselves up, and serving staff in hostelries with gardens will evidently have to carry not just trays but also a variable parasol or two.
What is put together here on – and let this be borne in mind! – 42 whole pages, is a burden on businesses, puts jobs at risk and is a cause of justified outrage on the part of the public.
Mrs Lynne is right to say that we risk bringing the EU into disrepute.
Over ten years have passed since this document on optical radiation was given its first reading.
Needless to say, the Federal Government still in office in Germany has gone along with it.
As Mr&#160;Őry pointed out, this proposal for a directive is simply the fourth part of a set of laws on which Parliament and the Council have already expressed opinions and which is aimed, from a health and safety perspective, at protecting workers against the risks connected with exposure to physical agents.
As you know, we have already adopted provisions relating to vibrations, noise and electromagnetic fields.
In the present case, we are led to draw a distinction between radiation from artificial sources and that from natural sources.
At the same time, however, there is an element of obscurity – if you will excuse the terminology – in your speeches and reasoning concerning health and, in particular, public health policies: you draw no distinction between the risk to which someone – in this instance, a worker – is exposed because of natural rays and that to which he or she is exposed because of artificial radiation.
Police in charge of security are also very often out of doors.
A much longer list of the occupations concerned could be drawn up.
Some people maintain that the proposal is too precise and that the Community and the European Union will make themselves look ridiculous.
My own observation is that, in the economic field, legislation can never be too precise.
However, this is not an issue to be ignored, and employers have a real responsibility – primarily, I believe, by means of awareness raising – as regards practical preventative measures, whereby employees who work outdoors can make informed choices about their exposure to sunlight and the need to take practical precautions to protect themselves. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to remind the House that the minimum health and safety requirements applicable to the workplace are already defined as a European competence by the Single European Act, and that employers have been obliged, since as long ago as 1989, to carry out risk assessments, train workers and inform them, providing protective equipment when necessary and keeping documentation relating to these measures.
After all, the only alternatives they have are to resort to simple actions such as the provision of notices or up-to-date information on health risks or else to run the risk of court rulings recognising occupational illnesses.
I should also like to thank him for his cooperation on this report, which I had the opportunity to discuss with him as shadow rapporteur for our group.
I agree with Mrs&#160;Oomen-Ruijten that the debate on this report has gone on too long, and that it has been sensationalised by certain press outlets as a result of a lack of clarity in the Commission’s and Council’s positions.
There is no doubt in my mind that the protection of workers from health risks arising from optical radiation is a matter that should be regulated at EU level.
After all, such an approach also reflects the findings of the report which I tabled on health protection at work, and which the House adopted some time ago.
I fail to understand the logic of those Members who wish to exclude natural radiation, and I am likewise opposed to those amendments aimed at allowing employers to decide for themselves whether or not to raise their employees’ awareness about optical radiation and to protect them from it.
The Commission and the Council are always talking about better lawmaking as a means towards more growth and job creation in the EU.
The mere fact that a variety of climate conditions prevail in the EU means that there are also many practical considerations militating against a Europe-wide regulation of this kind.
Like Mr Mann, Mr Bushill-Matthews, and many other MEPs, I have tabled amendments aimed at removing the sun from the scope of the directive.
I ask you to support our amendments or at least the compromise adopted in the Committee.
We must regain the trust of the people of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my own country, we have, for several weeks, had to watch CDU/CSU parliamentarians making a truly grotesque attempt at using this directive on optical radiation for their own purposes in the German election.
All this is obliging employers to inform their workers about the health risks associated with sunlight, a point reiterated with great clarity by our PSE Group’s two amendments.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament also want to allow the Member States to define their own specific criteria for how the risk assessment is to be carried out.
In Scotland, despite our northern latitude, this is a serious and pressing issue.
I hope the sun is shining upon him there and that he is being instructed to cover up well.
The UK Presidency is trying to downplay this whole directive, claiming that it is all very straightforward and that the fuss is far-fetched.
If that were true, why have I and my colleagues been getting increasingly frantic messages from organisations and individual companies of all sizes, in such major industries as agriculture, horticulture, construction, tourism and hospitality?
They have not taken their information from so-called 'misleading press releases' – despite the predictable spin from Mr Hughes and his Socialist colleagues – but straight from the directive.
Our role in this House is clearly to help shape EU legislation that is appropriate and proportionate.
If the UK Presidency will not give a lead, our political group will.
We are glad to have support from many of the Liberal Democrats, as well as from other political groups.
People do not want politicians to protect them from sunlight; increasingly, people simply want to be protected from politicians. &#160;&#160; Mr President, employers have always treated workers’ need for protection as if it were a trifling thing.
Where this proposal for a directive on optical radiation is concerned, we should go back to what the Council proposed.
There is, after all, a difference between a worker being exposed to extreme solar radiation for the whole of the day, and a person doing some sunbathing – which, if they are sensible, will be for a brief period of time.
Greater legal certainly also makes perfect sense from the point of view of both worker protection and insurance and is a necessity.
It might be added that Members of this House should, where workers are concerned, be guided in their decision-making by an awareness of their problems rather than by ignorance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying something about procedure.
We are dealing here with a piece of the European Parliament’s legal history, for it was in 1992 that the Commission came to a decision on the subject, and today finds us debating it at – and let me stress this – its reading.
It is also a reason why the CDU/CSU has tabled this motion for the directive to be rejected; we did so not because we reject justified measures in relation to unnatural optical radiation, but in order to call on the Commission to come up with a proposal that would be credible in terms of the Constitution and of Lisbon.
President Barroso and his colleagues always get carried away when analysing the reasons why the Constitution was rejected, and regularly invoke the Lisbon objectives.
We see, then, that there is in Germany a broad political consensus to the effect that we are in favour of rules that are practicable.
This directive is precisely an attempt to improve workers’ conditions by emphasising all the dangers to health to which workers are exposed in the work place as a result of optical radiation.
Radiation in the work place is dangerous, and there is a need for common European rules.
The Commission has been given the task of describing all the risks to which workers are exposed in working life.
For workers, cancer is no less real whether caused by natural or artificial radiation.
That is the only way in which we can guarantee decent conditions for all European wage earners. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commissioner stated that exposure limit values for natural radiation were not deemed to be feasible, and I want to emphasise that point.
I want to begin by asking the Commissioner to indicate very clearly what the Commission's views are on this debate, on the amendments and on what has happened in the various committees.
It would have been helpful if we had known your mind before we started, Commissioner, because we are speaking in a vacuum.
There is no legal certainty in the area of risk assessment for exposure to solar radiation in the workplace, and it is a legal certainty that in a litigious age it will end up as a lawyers' charter, and nothing else.
If I choose to spend 10 hours on a beach on Saturday or Sunday, or 10 hours in the garden at 80 degrees exposed to the sun, or on the golf course in very hot sunshine, all the health authorities would say that it was far too long.
But if I choose to spend my leisure time taking excess exposure to the sun, then go into the workplace on a Monday, say, and I am working on a construction site, or in the fields, in a vineyard, at a sports venue, beside a swimming pool or wherever, and I am already overexposed through lack of personal responsibility at the weekend, is it my employer's duty to ensure that I should not have any extra exposure to the sun on the Monday?
Yes, we want informed choices from a health point of view – everybody, not just employees, should be informed of the risks to over-exposure – but please, say to President&#160;Barroso for all of us, that, if he is serious about Lisbon-proofing regulation and about less regulation being better regulation, then we do not need this nanny-type regulation and solar radiation must be removed from the directive.
Risk assessment cannot be left to each Member State under the terms of framework Directive 89/391, because it is a Community competence only.
Please tell us what the options are and where you stand on this, Commissioner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, common sense seems to have abandoned the PPE-DE Group and the Liberals on this issue.
The media, of course, have had a field day, fed by people who should know better, like Ms Lynne.
The right – both Europhiles and Europhobes – have used this issue as a wedge in their campaign to renationalise health and safety regulations, ignoring the fact that, in an open, competitive economy, if you do not have European regulation, you will have no regulation.
During the long and difficult legislative process, the Commission has been keen to do everything to ensure that this document still offers a high level of protection for workers, while avoiding discriminating between workers exposed to similar risks, and that it does so in compliance with framework Directive 89/391 and while ensuring the necessary proportionality.
The aim has been to enable a compromise acceptable to all the institutions concerned to be reached by the end of the process.
The Commission thinks that the common position is a balanced text responding to the real dangers constituted by the eye diseases and skin cancers, or melanomas, that are an issue for all Europeans and thinks that it is perfectly in keeping with the terms of the European Parliament’s recent resolution on the promotion of health and safety.
Obviously, ways must be found of avoiding what could be pointless burdens on our companies and, as many have emphasised, on small and medium-sized companies in particular.
Amendments&#160;1,&#160;8,&#160;9,&#160;10,&#160;11&#160;and&#160;36 on the one hand emphasise the need for early detection of health effects and, on the other hand, specify the level of qualifications required by those responsible for medical surveillance.
The Commission is able to accept these amendments.
The Commission cannot, however, accept, as they stand, Amendments&#160;5,&#160;7&#160;and&#160;37 which propose giving each Member State the competence to legislate on the appropriateness, or otherwise, of employers assessing the risks in the case of exposure to natural sources of radiation.
Beyond the considerations of protecting workers’ health to which I referred a few moments ago, such provisions would, in fact, be contrary to the obligations imposed on employers by framework Directive 89/391 to take account of all the risks and to make an assessment of the risks in all cases.
Where employment law and working conditions are concerned, this would, I believe, pose a real problem and would not, in my opinion, make the task an easy one for countries to carry out.
The Commission intends working with Parliament and the Council to find a solution enabling the directive to be adopted as soon as possible.
That is why, Mr&#160;President, I think that this compromise genuinely deserves Parliament’s undivided attention. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
The fundamental interests of workers demand that this directive should come into being as soon as possible.
Knowledge of the risks, use of protective equipment and strict compliance with safety regulations are essential, not only for visual protection but for health protection in all its other aspects as well.
The range of occupational hazards is extremely broad, and the risk of harmful health effects and of developing chronic diseases is considerable.
We must also take into account that the directive should provide Member States with the broadest possible opportunity, on as many issues as possible, to formulate for themselves, at national level – in consultation with the social partners and within the framework set by the directive – legislation that best suits their given circumstances.
The future PROGRESS programme will play a decisive role in the development of social Europe.
The proposed approach will contribute to simplifying the instruments, both in legal terms and from the point of view of managing them, and to rationalising the budget structure.
The Commission has always been very keen to ensure that the revised text preserves this simplification and this rationalisation.
PROGRESS represents a response to the results of the Eurobarometer surveys, for what the public wants is greater involvement on the part of the EU in the combating of unemployment and poverty.
Without wanting to reopen old wounds, I have to say that I am firmly convinced that, if there are in future to be no more officially free-standing action programmes to promote equality of opportunity, reinforcing this in all areas to which the programme relates and measures taken under it is what is needed to win over the Women’s Committee.
We are reversing many of these cuts, but, rather than taking the money away from other important target areas, we have done this by voting to make the very high flexibility margin of 10% less rigid and thus make it possible for the share allocated to gender equality to be increased by 4% to its present 12% share of the budget for PROGRESS.
The Committee also regards five points in this programme as being particularly important, and I expect the Commission to support us in this.
Secondly, we want the transnational exchange to be maintained in future, for that alone will provide Europe with the added value that we want, and, thirdly, we want PROGRESS to help to really get the experience gained from the programme circulated among the Member States faster than the current programmes have done.
That brings me to my last point, the role of the social partners and non-governmental organisations.
The Committee found the Commission’s desire to limit their role to no more than the pursuit of the EU’s objectives incomprehensible.
We regard their involvement in the ongoing development of strategies as indispensable.
The possibility of participation in PROGRESS must also be open to national and regional non-governmental organisations.
It therefore follows that the maximum co-funding should continue to stand at 90% and not at something like 80%, which would be a cause of major difficulties to many EU networks. &#160;&#160; . – One of the most controversial aspects of this proposal to set up the new Community Programme for Employment and Social Solidarity – PROGRESS – is that equality between men and women has been lumped into one single social programme, when the issue is not merely a social one.
Accordingly, in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, we have sought to strike a balance between the need to raise the profile of the struggle for genuine equality between men and women and the Commission’s proposal, bringing action on the ground and the existing directives closer together.
Most of the proposals that we adopted in the Committee on Women’s Rights have been addressed, at least in part, in the report by Mrs Jöns, whom I congratulate on her work.
I should like to highlight the following points: the increase in cofinancing to a 90% ceiling, in light of the difficulties experienced by NGOs and other social organisations working in these areas; the increase in the financial framework to EUR&#160;854.2 million for the seven-year period from 2007; and the change in the financial allocation between the different strands.
This programme must effectively address the question of the protection and social inclusion of immigrants, the disabled, the unemployed, children and young people, and the elderly, along with issues such as working conditions, the fight against discrimination, and the promotion of diversity.
I am equally delighted by the quality of the debates we have had in committee and by the very interesting compromise amendments, of which I would specifically like to point out the following.
I believe that interesting amendments have been made to the Commission’s text, particularly with regard to Parliament’s role itself.
It should be recognised, Commissioner, that the Commission’s initial text treated us somewhat as the poor relation when it came to the evaluations of a programme actually extending over seven years (2007-2013).
Secondly, through the use of compromise amendments, Mrs&#160;Jöns has drawn attention to the particularly important role of non-governmental organisations and of social organisations.
Everyone will be in agreement in recognising that, from a national and transnational perspective, these organisations play a particularly important role in the framework of the specialised networks belonging to them at EU level.
I would like in particular to emphasise that the success of the PROGRESS programme essentially depends on the amount awarded to it, and it is clear that the amount proposed by the Commission is by no means acceptable. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for what is, typically, an extremely good report.
The programme has a role to play in the Lisbon strategy that is, of course, not only about competitiveness but also about a social Europe and a less stratified society.
This programme is therefore extremely important.
It is therefore important for the accessibility aspects, broadly understood, to be integrated into, and taken account of in, all parts of the programme so that disabled people can participate in the labour market.
The same applies to the social integration of people who come from other parts of the world and who are not part of the labour market.
I wish to emphasise what the rapporteur too mentioned, namely that both sides of industry, as well as non-governmental organisations, must be involved in the whole of the work, designing, implementing and supervising the programmes.
The financial aspects have already been touched upon.
When we talk of investment in aspects such as human resources, training, employment services, efforts to achieve higher employment rates, the promotion of crucial qualitative and quantitative employment levels and at the same time an agenda for social cohesion, we have in mind objectives that should not be seen solely as a compensatory or offsetting appendage to a Lisbon Strategy focused exclusively on the economic sphere, but that form an integral part of it.
For these very reasons, I believe that it is fundamentally important to propose and plan a reinforcement of the financial framework, but we also place considerable emphasis on the success of this proposal, including the section relating to an increase in the cofinancing ceilings, which are essential in promoting a decisive and determining aspect of the programme: an upgraded role for partnership.
If the social dimension does not play a leading and decisive role in planning and implementation, commitment from the institutions alone will probably fall short of the objectives.
Other issues have already been dealt with by other Members, and so I have dwelt on just a few points that, in my view, are crucial for the success of an option that is decisive in the relaunch of European strategies for development and the system’s competitiveness.
In particular I welcome the emphasis placed on social inclusion, gender mainstreaming, people with disabilities and the role of the NGO sector in this programme.
I also want to throw my support behind calls for an increase in the financial aid proposed and for a co-financing rate of 90%, rather than 80%, in relation to the role of NGOs and social partners.
Let us be clear: the current economic strategies are driving more and more people into poverty within the European Union, and our hope is that PROGRESS can help play an important role in the fight against social exclusion.
The strengthening of gender equality should be supported wholeheartedly by this Parliament, especially those elements which emphasise actions promoting gender equality that aim to combat discrimination and access to employment, career development, pay and training, and that fight the causes of poverty and social exclusion.
If we want to see fundamental change within society and bring in this fundamental change in mindsets and conditions, we must support this programme and this report.
In the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in July, David Blunkett, the United Kingdom Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, said that we must not work against Member States, that different countries have different solutions and that defining best practice is the first step.
Likewise, David Blunkett said that many regulations were being passed which were impossible to implement.
Just so: the first measure to be discarded is this well-meaning but artificial attempt to create social solidarity.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in favour of this programme.
If we want to achieve the Lisbon objectives, if we want jobs for everyone, we must help people to achieve this goal.
That is why it is so important that all those disadvantaged groups know that Europe exists and that it can provide them with support in finding jobs, in gaining extra qualifications, in changing working conditions, and so on, and it is for that reason that I congratulate Mrs Jöns on this report.
The first question is: how do you actually arrive at the amount mentioned in your amendment?
The amount that was proposed at the time was EUR&#160;854&#160;million, which was still wishful thinking on the part of Mrs Jöns.
That is why we have increased the amount from EUR 854 million to 858 million, and I assume that everyone is agreed on this.
We wanted to do the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality a favour by setting aside more funds for gender equality and we also wanted to put some money aside for working conditions.
I think that those issues are worthwhile and that they can redress the balance in PROGRESS to some extent.
Finally, it is because all those minor incidental programmes do not make life any easier that I am delighted with PROGRESS, which will enable us to channel our money, commitment and energy much more effectively.
It underpins our European work on the critical issues of discrimination and social exclusion that continue to hold back so many people in our societies.
If the Lisbon Strategy is to mean more than just words, Parliament is right to expect a significant increase in funding for this area.
If politicians in Brussels are genuinely worried about disengagement and alienation, as reflected by the votes on the Constitutional Treaty and in other ways, it is right for us to insist that the Commission should strengthen, not weaken, the role of both social partners and of non-governmental organisations in this programme.
I strongly support combating all forms of discrimination.
I would like to remind Parliament and Commission that this is the programme which provides the core funding to enable disabled people, and indeed other groups that are discriminated against, to meet and to represent themselves at European level.
I remember very well the budget crisis back in 1998, when the funding for such NGOs was called into question in a wholly unjustifiable manner.
No, they must represent the views and experiences of disadvantaged people themselves.
I believe in gender mainstreaming, but it should apply to disabled people too, with disabled, not able-bodied, people representing them.
Our amendments, which provide for adaptations, accommodations and accessibility and include publicity, are absolutely crucial in ensuring that disabled people are involved.
Finally I want to express support for the small disability organisations for blind and people, or people with intellectual disabilities.
There is room for all organisations, large and small. &#160;&#160; Mr President, esteemed colleagues.
Finland, Sweden and Denmark have some of the highest human development indicators in the world.
The decision under discussion, which would establish a programme for employment and social solidarity in the Union, is a substantial step towards the creation of a more uniformly developed social environment in Europe.
In order to increase and improve the progress of this programme, and also its implementation, I, as one of the co-rapporteurs, suggested that the rate of cofinancing should be raised to 90% of the total expenses of NGOs.
Today, the new Member States in particular require support in order to work as equals with the other Members, without eating into the other countries’ budgets.
The measure of raising cofinancing is also important because both the associated candidate countries of the European Union and the western Balkan states included in the process can participate in the programme.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we agree with Mrs Jöns’ report – and I wish to congratulate her – because we believe that safeguarding high levels of social protection and participation of the workers, at a time when the rules of the market and of profit prevail, is our urgent duty.
The same also applies to people with disabilities, who must also have access to work and whose social integration must be promoted and confirmed.
The European Parliament can and must have a fundamental role in the monitoring and application of the PROGRESS programme.
The citizens of the Union and every person must have the right of participation and of equal opportunity in the society in which they live and this can only be achieved when profit policies do not steal a march on social policies.
We consider that the PROGRESS programme, with the improvements approved by the relevant committees, including the increase in funding, can at least play a role in safeguarding a certain level of social cohesion by giving work to those who have been socially unprotected in the past and, ultimately, by achieving social protection for all workers without cutting corners and without discrimination. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, we should talk not about the PROGRESS programme, but about the PROGRESS programmes, which Europe hopes will develop as a result of your Commission's proposal.
This programme is designed, therefore, to support the application of protection and of the fight against social exclusion, especially of minority groups, and improvements to the working environment, supplemented by the provision for combining family life and work so that women are given the opportunity to participate in the workplace.
We hope that the objectives of the programme will be implemented. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one of the fundamental principles of Community law is the equal treatment of women and men.
All the directives relating to this have made a decisive contribution in improving the position of women, who make up 52% of our population and thus constitute the majority.
Grateful though I am to Mrs Jöns for having reinforced this aspect of the PROGRESS programme, I do take the view that the amalgamation of the five areas of the social agenda is politically mistaken and must not be allowed to remain unchanged.
Gender equality should have a free-standing programme of its own.
Thirdly, the awaited creation of the Gender Institute, gender mainstreaming and a relevant and free-standing equality programme will, in matters of equality policy, make the EU and this House of ours very visible to women; all women will see that Europe is actively working for them.
Fourthly, the Women’s Committee remains a driving force for the rights of our female citizens and will not agree to those rights being undermined by such things as the planned amalgamation, with effect from 2008, of the DAPHNE anti-violence programme with the programme against drugs, which amounts to an open assault upon women’s policy.
Although PROGRESS puts women back on the social agenda, pigeonholing them under ‘social issues’, the solution to the equality problem is political in nature.
We women may have lost the first round, but Parliament’s amendments – and thanks again to Mrs Jöns – have prevented drastic cutbacks in the area of equality of opportunity.
Let me warn the Commission, though, that, if equality policy becomes even less visible and is taken even less seriously, then support on the part of women will diminish as well.
PROGRESS depends on them. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the European PROGRESS programme will henceforth encompass the former European Gender Equality programme in the form of a section on equal treatment of men and women.
Without doubt, the Lisbon challenges impose the need for an agenda to achieve a rationalised social policy in terms of spending and monitoring.
Etymologists set us thinking.
In all domestic or professional spheres, in the market or non-market sector, women know how to make use of scarce resources and turn them into something else.
Lisbon wishes to fight against impoverishment in Europe and for greater social justice.
The clearly identified commercial criteria are widely debated here.
Solidarity in the economy calls on us to conduct politics in a different way and to establish relations between human beings based on public-spirited and socially aware behaviour that respects everyone’s differences. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the debate on PROGRESS, the new Community programme, is being held at a very important time.
Secondly, the European Union is preparing to enlarge towards south-east Europe and to start accession negotiations with Turkey, a large country with serious problems in all sectors.
These developments relate directly to our political plans and to our financial perspectives.
Thirdly, the social problems of European citizens which the PROGRESS programme is designed to combat lie at the heart of speculation about the effectiveness of our social model and the credibility and viability of the European Union.
For these reasons, we expect a great deal of the PROGRESS programme in terms of its structure, its collective and coordinating character, its adequate funding, the potential to mobilise social and economic agencies and, more specifically, to give numerous agencies at national and regional level the chance to participate, because we must not forget that our administration to date is making European citizens say that we are supporting and cooperating with the professionals of the European programmes and not the real, basic protagonists.
I should like in particular to highlight the need to integrate the gender factor into all sectors in which action is taken, in all evaluations and reviews, both interim and annual, of the PROGRESS programme, as the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality emphasises in its opinion.
At the same time, women have a great many problems in connection with discrimination, unemployment, poverty and exclusion.
I am delighted that the opinion adopted by Parliament’s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs shares with the Commission’s proposal the same desire to simplify and to rationalise, and I would like to say a few words about the Commission’s position with regard to certain major amendments.
Having regard to Amendment 55 on the inclusion of regional and national non-governmental organisations as potential beneficiaries of the programme, the Commission stresses that this support for national and regional NGOs has not been ruled out.
Nevertheless, the Commission wished to send a signal to clearly indicate that the programme is first and foremost aimed at NGOs organised at EU level, as they bring a higher degree of added value.
As regards increasing the financial envelope of the programme, Amendments 66 and 73 together with dividing the funds among the various sections of the programme and the flexibility reserve provided for Amendments 67 and 74 the Commission is not opposed to a debate on these issues but, at this stage, it is not amending its initial proposal and is waiting for an overall agreement on the financial perspectives.
Having regard to Amendment 59, which divides the Committee into five subcommittees corresponding to the five sections of the programme, the Commission will not change its position with regard to the fact that it wishes to be assisted by only one committee on the PROGRESS programme, even if the members of this committee may change according to the agenda, as is indicated in recital 12a of the amended proposal for a Council decision.
Inter alia, the amendments aimed at strengthening the role of the European Parliament or, furthermore, at mainstreaming the gender dimension are very much welcomed by the Commission.
There is no danger that we will lose sight of gender mainstreaming in the new PROGRESS programme; on the contrary, the Commission will ensure that it highlights the aspect of gender which, by being integrated into the new programme, will strengthen the principle of mainstreaming.
I quite understand the concerns expressed in the draft opinion of Parliament; that is why the Commission will amend its proposal as far as possible in order to respond to this opinion of Parliament.
Mr&#160;President, I will now list the amendments that the Commission can accept in full: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 15, 17, 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 26, 30, 34, 36, 37, 39, 40, 42, 43, 46, 47, 52, 53, 54, 61, 62, 63, 68, 69 and 70.
The Commission can substantially accept the following Amendments, but accept only the spirit of parts of them, and on condition that they are reworded: 4, 11, 14, 18, 22, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 35, 41, 44, 45, 48, 49, 58, 64, 65 and 71.
Finally, the Commission must reject Amendments: 9, 16, 23, 33, 38, 50, 51, 55, 56, 57, 59, 60, 66, 67, 72, 73 and 74.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the European Parliament for the quality of its debate on this proposal.
Thanks to the dialogue between the Commission and the European Parliament, I can say with conviction that the resulting text will take better account of the political objectives of the European Parliament while at the same time having contributed to the effort to simplify and to rationalise, which will be to the advantage of the beneficiaries.
The PROGRESS proposal submitted to you is essential for implementing the new social agenda.
There is therefore a crucial and urgent need to revise and extend the directive.
With regard to Articles 4 and 5, the results are good and these measures must be upheld.
We can, however, propose improvements when it comes to defining the concepts of ‘independent producer’ and ‘work’ or to establishing a more standardised grid of the results of the Member States, for example.
At the same time, however, we must not hinder the development of a sector in the throes of a continuous technical revolution, which is very important for our industries and for our jobs.
The standards laid down by the directive are minimal as it is, and they have not always prevented a slide towards commercialism and mindlessness in certain Member States.
This revision of the Directive must enhance a number of fundamental principles: free movement of European television broadcasts, free access to exceptional events, promotion of European works and recent independent productions, protection of minors and public order and protection of consumers thanks to the identification of content providers and to transparency in advertising and the right of reply.
I could also emphasise the role of public services.
I regret that my fellow MEPs have not followed my proposal for a European Public Audiovisual Service Charter.
On Tuesday 13 of next week, we are going to hold a seminar on this important issue, in Manchester.
I firmly believe that democracy is essentially a system of public opinion and that its quality therefore depends on the quality of what we have come to call freedom of expression, a right that not everybody understands properly.
For me, freedom of expression is above all the right of each citizen to choose the channels of information he or she prefers.
Nevertheless, Mr Weber, you have acknowledged that we are moving towards a world in which television must be redefined, a world in which television means conventional television as we know it, but also television via the Internet, television via mobile phone and television via all the new technologies.
Mr Weber, that is the principle of subsidiarity, which I defend.
I would therefore like to express my hope that we do a good job. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome Mr Weber's report on television without frontiers and I fully support it.
A proper media policy providing cultural values is crucial to broadening the understanding between our nations.
However, this legislation meets the requirements of our cultural policy.
As regards this topic, I should like to raise the question: why do we have to regulate the programmes on our television channels?
The answer is very simple: because we want to save our national cultures and create a common European identity.
In order to promote cultural diversity and build up a European identity, we need a stronger exchange of our cultural values, including our cinematographic heritage.
In smaller countries, such as Hungary, it is not a problem.
However, in some larger Member States, there are hardly any non-domestic European programmes.
As the referendum on the Constitution shows, people from some larger nations hardly know anything about the values of the Central and Eastern European countries or of other smaller Member States.
The European identity needs and deserves to be reflected, even on the channels of the bigger nations.
Often our legislation just follows technical developments.
I hope that, in the light of the digital revolution, we can pass proper legislation in due time.
Through the impact it has, it creates a strong and clear link between all Europeans; it remains one of the essential factors of intercultural dialogue and contributes to developing our European identity.
Mr&#160;Weber’s report not only refers to the application of Articles 4 and 5, but also to issues such as the revision of the Directive itself or media pluralism.
Through my amendments, I was particularly keen to encourage assistance to be given to Europe’s special character so that cultural diversity, freedom, pluralism and independence of the media remain the crucial components of Europe’s audiovisual model.
This precise point did not need to be developed in this report but it will absolutely have to remain a priority objective during the overall revision of the directive.
With regard to the latter, I considered that its content and regulation ought to be clearly defined, in particular for advertising relating to alcohol, which has a harmful effect on children and vulnerable people.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank Mr Weber for his report and particularly to express my agreement with his view which underpins it, namely that this television directive has been a European success story.
There are two problematic aspects that I would like to address.
Particularly in the new Member States, there has been an increase in media concentration to a disturbing degree, and that is something of which we must not lose sight.
The second crucial aspect is that in adapting the directive to the new technological revolution, and to digital media, we must do everything possible to enable public television, whatever the challenges posed by the competition, to really benefit from these new technologies, thus preventing it from being undermined and put at a disadvantage without anyone noticing.
The real test of our success will be media diversity in the public sector too.
Until now, this matter has been left solely in the hands of the Member States and over-concentration is increasing and in several Member States democracy is suffering.
The second problem concerns the very defence of European television productions, which are a facet of our European identity and of our European culture.
We need to do whatever we can here to strengthen European productions by reinforcing the circulation of national productions at trans-European level, by supporting joint European policies and productions and by improving how we use and coordinate the positive role of public broadcasting.
I can assure you that if there is such a thing as a universal European, then there is a simple solution to any concerns he may have in this regard.
Hollywood productions are surprisingly European in their universal appeal, and our persistent attempts to keep American culture out of the mainstream of European civilisation and values are laughable.
I look forward to the time after Turkey’s accession when we will use quotas to deny Europeans easily-understood American films of this kind, and be obliged to broadcast Turkish films in their place as part of a single European culture.
It survives at national level, even without artificial precautions on the part of the EU.
We should abolish the Directive, and leave cultural values in their rightful place, namely in the nation states. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the television directive is indeed one that gives the public a direct experience of the benefits of Europe and the European Union.
Protection of young people, protection of consumers’ interests, cultural diversity, European content and European productions – all these things are of value and the ‘television without frontiers’ directive guarantees them to viewers in all the European Union’s Member States.
In a couple of weeks’ time, the Commission and the British Presidency will be holding a major conference on this subject in Liverpool.
I strongly urge not only the Commission and the Member States, but also businesses and broadcasters, to be ready and willing to really carry forward this directive.
The European Union is aware of the lack of quality European productions and has set itself the primary objective in the TV without Frontiers Directive of reversing this worrying state of affairs by setting broadcasting quotas in order to promote European and independent productions.
However, this positive image has a number of negative aspects.
This major issue is a cultural and, primarily, a political issue.
We have seen the extent to which the glamour productions of the United States contrast with the reality of New Orleans. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Weber report contains many innovative and important elements, including a full acknowledgement that the way democracy functions in every country is radically influenced by the media systems and that therefore it is vital to have a system of democratic controls to guarantee that citizens’ rights are not violated by state or private monopolies.
A public sector is not enough to guarantee public control of information management; it is not enough for state television to be subject to the government and the parties as is the case in Italy and as, apparently, threatens to be the case in Slovenia; nor is the private sector a guarantee of anything, if all the commercial television channels are in the hands of a few and if advertising imposes decisions and content with regard to both entertainment and information.
It is vital for the directive to be revised, but the Commission should bear in mind that the debate goes beyond market-place arguments.
In fact, television determines the cultural, intellectual and ethical environment of every country, and that in turn determines its degree of democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have long believed that the audiovisual sector has great potential for Scotland and Europe.
I would add my own congratulations to our rapporteur for a very sensible and ambitious report.
This is not an area lacking in legislation; quite the reverse, the question for us is how effective that legislation is in this mobile digital Internet age.
This has demonstrated what a positive impact the EU can have.
I hope the Commission will rise to our challenge and be as ambitious as we are. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report, which is quite balanced, emphasises certain problems and issues that are a concern for anyone who grasps – as we independent supporters of a Europe of the peoples do – the danger, plain for all to see, of a globalisation whose negative effects are to be seen, above all, in terms of culture.
This is confirmed by the type of message and values or, to put it another way, lack of values that are disseminated through systems for the production and broadcasting of television’s message, which are squeezing our own production and suffocating the free expression of independent producers.
One particular point should be stressed, and it is mentioned in paragraph 38: censoring messages from non-EU channels that incite hatred of our culture, of the West, as was recently the case when the Lebanese channel Al Manar transmitted messages opposed to our civilisation, from sources very close to Hezbollah, via a European satellite. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Weber has brought his experience to bear in his excellent report and for that I congratulate him.
Despite the fact that, with the application of Articles 4 and 5 of the Television without Frontiers Directive on the future of European policy in the audiovisual sector, positive steps have been made, there is nonetheless still concern about broadcasting quotas for European programmes, which remain low, making competition with other productions, especially from the United States, difficult to impossible.
At the same time, I note that there has been a reduction of about 4% in independent productions over the last four years, which is out of keeping with the directive and with efforts to enlarge the free market in the field of the audiovisual media.
Unfortunately, infringements of the rules adopted by the European Union on total advertising time, interruptions to programmes for advertisements, scheduling of unsuitable works at specific times and the indirect promotion of banned products, such as tobacco and alcohol, during broadcasts, are just some aspects of an uncontrolled phenomenon for which the Member States are responsible.
Cultural diversity is impossible without television without frontiers, without a single market and protection of the human dignity of consumers, minors and citizens in general.
The European Union has a duty to defend the role of the public and private audiovisual media, with respect for the relevant regulations and directives and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would first like to express my satisfaction at the revision of this Directive, because it updates some of the provisions of the ‘Television without frontiers’ Directive, specifically those which relate to the promotion of the distribution and production of television programmes.
Given that quotas of European works are largely covered by national works, I fully support the rapporteur in his advocacy of voluntary initiatives for increasing quotas for non-national European works and I support the proposal to establish more effective mechanisms for compliance with and control of the legislation of the Member States.
I would also like to say that the revised Directive must safeguard the development of new technologies and new services, in order to guarantee growth of the European economy and job creation, in accordance with the Lisbon Strategy.
Cultural diversity, freedom and pluralism of the media must continue to be the most important elements of the European audiovisual model. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the directive before us has aims in common with the Council of Europe’s European Convention on Transfrontier Television.
It is an excellent objective, but this is one example of the work of the Council of Europe overlapping with that of the European Union.
In the discussion of this directive we should approach the search for modes of cooperation between these two bodies with an open mind, and clearly identify the areas of responsibility the Council of Europe and the European Union should have.
Firstly, however, it would be a good idea to agree on common concepts in order to eliminate differing interpretations of what constitutes a European work or independent producer.
Actually, the concept contains a deeper truth, which supporters of this proposal miss entirely or are deliberately concealing.
Europe's viewers, not the politicians, will deal the knock-out blow to this pipedream project, because ordinary people know that if the EU is the answer, then it must have been a stupid question. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although we are obviously looking forward to the proposal that we hope the Commission will table by the end of the year, the issue papers that the offices of the Commission have prepared in the run-up to the conference on audiovisual policy in Liverpool at the end of this month have not been exactly confidence-inspiring.
A study commissioned by Parliament actually states, in black and white, that the independence of the national channels cannot be guaranteed with any certainty in many Member States.
While that is true, I do wonder if we – that is the Commission and Parliament – should not consider routes and measures we should take in those cases where the national governments have turned national channels into virtual branch organisations of government policy.
Let me conclude by saying that the minimalist starting position that is now before us will lead us straight into American-style situations.
The fundamental objectives of the directive, including the objectives of an internal market and of public interest, that are still valid, are as follows: free movement of audiovisual programmes on, and between, platforms, whatever their method of transmission may be; free access to events of major importance; promotion of European works, independent productions and cultural diversity; minimum standards of protection for viewers against clandestine advertising; integrity of audiovisual works, in particular films; protection of minors and human dignity, and the right of reply.
The consultation process has been conducted in complete transparency with the participation of Members of the European Parliament.
Having regard to the current Articles 4 and 5, we have taken due note of your concerns with a view to securing a better and more uniform application of notions such as ‘independent producers’ or ‘European works’ through the introduction of clearer concepts.
I have taken full note of Mr Weber’s wish to give this concept of work a more specific content.
The measures to promote European works and independent productions were also subject to consultation within the framework of the summary documents covering the same points that were highlighted in the Weber report.
The consultations demonstrated that the basic principles remain valid, as Articles 4 and 5 have provided a stable and effective framework for promoting cultural diversity and the European audiovisual production sector.
I note the concerns expressed in the Weber report about the need to safeguard media pluralism.
The Commission acknowledges the importance of media pluralism and, in the context of its powers, pays great attention to issues of concentration and property.
Several public debates have been initiated to examine whether this issue should be dealt with at Community level.
What can be said is that there is without doubt a need for a set of measures that include effective regulation at national level, application of national and European competition law and active promotion of media pluralism at national and Community levels by facilitating the movement of European works or by supporting European producers in the context of the ‘Television without Frontiers’ Directive and the Media programme.
Those are the handful of points I wished to highlight, on behalf of Mrs&#160;Reding, by once again saying to Mr&#160;Weber and to all of the Members who followed the debate that the Commission has taken a great deal of interest in this dialogue and in this exchange with Parliament. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The second change that I propose is in relation to the importance of the positive measures.
In this paragraph, I propose inserting a whole sentence, which would read: 'Attention should be paid in particular to the case of traditionally disadvantaged groups [such] as Roma and people with disabilities.' &#160;&#160; . – Speaking in my capacity as rapporteur, I would like to point out that the Commission proposal covers all the categories referred to in Article 13, including, that is to say, the groups discriminated against on the grounds of their ethnic origin.
The fact is, then, that PROGRESS will also give attention to the particular problems of the Roma.
What is more, today’s high agricultural subsidies mean that EU products are dumped on the world market, a state of affairs that has serious consequences for developing countries.
I chose to vote in favour, since the change means that the reform of the raw tobacco market, which has already begun, can continue.
This new regulation is the result of the implementation of the second reform package of the CAP agreed in April 2004.
While we welcome long-overdue moves to end the EU's EUR 1&#160;billion-a-year tobacco regime, we feel that the reforms agreed in 2004 do not go far enough soon enough.
What is more, today’s high agricultural subsidies mean that EU products are dumped on the world market, a state of affairs that has serious consequences for developing countries.
I chose to vote in favour, since the change means that the reform of the raw tobacco market, which has already begun, can continue.
In its communication on the European Action Plan on organic foodstuffs and agriculture, the Commission put forward the idea of replacing the current national derogation in the area of imports with a permanent system that makes use of technical benchmarking carried out by bodies appointed by the Community.
Annex 6, part C of this Regulation includes a derogation for raw materials for the production of conventional gelatine, as non-organically produced agricultural products may, up to a certain percentage, be included in the manufacture of organic products.
It has taken on great importance for Europe, given that it is the first satellite radionavigation and positioning system in the world designed specifically for civil purposes.
I voted in favour of the Barsi-Pataky report (A6-0212/2005) on the implementation of the deployment and commercial operating phases of the European programme of satellite radionavigation.
The programme must be implemented in a well-balanced fashion, in light of the new public-private approach to implementation.
The various bilateral agreements established in the area of air services are the main instruments for ensuring that our relations with third countries run smoothly, particularly with regard to issues of air safety.
As a result of this and the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has recognised the Community’s exclusive competence in this field, the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with third countries with a view to replacing certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with Community agreements.
The various bilateral agreements established in the area of air services are the main instruments for ensuring that our relations with third countries run smoothly, particularly with regard to issues of air safety.
As a result of this and of the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has recognised the Community’s exclusive competence in this field, the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with third countries with a view to replacing certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with Community agreements.
In the case of Georgia, the changes proposed by Parliament are corrective in character and relate to the taxation of aviation fuel, designation clauses and pricing.
I feel that the work of Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries has made an important contribution to the drafting of the final text.
I should like to highlight the fact that the date for implementing the proposed measures has been put back to 2008, on the grounds that some pilot projects have yet to be concluded.
I also welcome the use of Vessel Detection Systems (VDS) and the introduction of an electronic logbook mechanism.
I feel that these measures will help to improve the monitoring of fishing zones, and will enable better and more accurate management of fish stocks, thereby facilitating the procedures involved in the gathering and dissemination of fisheries information.
Provided that they are in tune with the situation on the ground in the different Member States, I feel that the amendments tabled by Parliament deserve a favourable vote in the Chamber. &#160;&#160; We have chosen to vote against this report.
We therefore support the principle of electronic registration and reporting of fisheries activities.
The aim is to meet the control and management goals pursued by the reform of the common fisheries policy in 2002.
We have always had our doubts about the introduction of this system, from the point of view of both respect for sovereignty and the cost and effectiveness of such a system.
Many of the amendments that have been tabled, by the rapporteur and other Members of the House, represent a step in this direction, and therefore justify supporting this report.
The version thus presented is simply fairer, more reasonable and more viable than the version put forward by the Council.
This readmission agreement, which has been negotiated and concluded between the European Community and Albania, is the fourth such agreement, and follows those already concluded with Hong Kong, Macau and Sri Lanka.
This agreement establishes Albania’s obligation to readmit its nationals living illegally in the territory of the Member States and reciprocally places an obligation on the Union to readmit nationals of EU Member States living illegally in Albanian territory.
I voted in favour of this report, which recommends the conclusion of this agreement.
The issue of immigration is one that, as politicians and as members of the general public, we should treat with the utmost importance and place high on our list of priorities.
The amendments tabled in the report before us are worthy of our support, firstly because it is simply not logical solely to promote competition for its own sake – especially when that competition is realised in a way that is unfair or does not respect rules that we believe are of key importance – and secondly because the purpose of granting aid should be to promote development and not to promote developed economies and our competitors.
It actually makes perfect sense to attach development aid to the – indirect – financing of developing regional economies, in which case we will be helping to ensure that the aid granted is doubly effective.
I have noted the importance of in voting to-day.
It is fundamental that the EU and its Member States need to focus on the problem of this type of waste and the protection of our environment via requirements on Members States and their industries to have waste management plans; to have inventories of closed waste facilities; to make financial guarantees to national competent authorities for rehabilitation and post-clean up operations; to apply monitoring and management controls to prevent water and soil pollution, all of which are consistent with the ‘Polluter Pays’ principle.
The aim is thus to clarify the Community’s legal situation with regard to the extractive industries, and this would be of great interest to Portugal.
The Council has accepted a number of amendments adopted at first reading by Parliament.
There is no good reason why taxpayers in other countries should pay for such measures.
Structural Fund resources should only be deployed in the case of poor Member States with unusually large needs in terms of drawing up inventories.
We have therefore voted against Amendment 8.
Mining waste is currently covered by general waste directives, but some serious incidents involving quarrying and mine waste led to the Council to ask for a specific directive on mining waste.
The only controversial issue is whether a new category of waste for this directive non inert, non-hazardous waste, for example, chalk and lime would be created.
While this category does not exist in the landfill directive on balance I think there is a sensible case for this new category. - Karin Jöns report (A6-0199/2005) &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;I should like to give a brief explanation of my vote on the Sjöstedt report on the management of waste from extractive industries.
The end result of all this would be a heavier burden on taxpayers throughout the European Union, without anything positive being achieved.
It was for this reason that I voted against the majority of the amendments. &#160;&#160; The report on the EU programme for employment and social solidarity (PROGRESS) is all very well, but it is based on the false notion that the Commission can and should prepare general strategies and proposals for how these issues should be resolved for 25 very different countries.
No decisions have been taken about the programme’s financial framework because the EU’s long-term budget has been rejected by the European Council.
In particular I support the rapporteur's intention to better recognise the role of NGOs at local and national level in successfully implementing these aims.
The Agenda for Social Policy constitutes the Union’s itinerary in the social and employment field as part of the general Lisbon Strategy.
In this context, the Commission has emphasised the importance of simplifying and rationalising the current situation, by proposing an integrated programme for employment and social solidarity (PROGRESS).
The PROGRESS programme is the new Community programme containing the four programmes that currently make up the Agenda for Social Policy and a range of budgetary headings relating to working conditions.
As regards the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, I welcome the increase in the financial framework, the strengthening of Parliament’s role in the monitoring and the implementation of the programme and the involvement of the social partners and non-governmental organisations. &#160;&#160; .
I welcome PROGRESS which will make a substantial contribution to achieving the objectives of the social policy agenda under the Lisbon Strategy.
I also support the Rapporteur's steps to strengthen Parliament’s role in monitoring the programme and increase its influence on implementation through measures such as a regular exchange of views with Parliament held by the Commission and an interim report evaluating the results achieved and the qualitative and quantitative aspects of programme implementation. - Tokia Saïfi report (A6-0193/2005) &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would briefly like to present my explanation of vote.
I am also pleased that the European Union and China have reached a settlement, but I cannot support the policy of the European Parliament, not to mention that of the EU, in this matter.
In my opinion, the EU’s policy in this matter has been far too protectionist, and it is consumers who suffer most for that, in the form of higher prices.
In other words, I give my support to the Commission and those countries that are prepared to open up the textiles market, and not to block it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise to say something about the Saïfi report.
In principle, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on it, as it is, in substance, a very good report, but there are certain concerns that need to be mentioned.
I take the view that Europe has a great opportunity to make its consumers the most emancipated in the world.
It would, after all, be very interesting to demand, at any rate for the future, the creation of a standard ‘made in Europe’ label, to which stringent criteria would apply, as a means of ensuring that what our consumers buy has been manufactured under the proper conditions, without causing massive damage to the environment and without the use of such things as child labour.
The ‘Report on textiles and clothing after 2005’ is a very important document to my country, Lithuania, where textile and clothing has a long tradition and the number of people employed is remarkable, so I voted to call on the Commission and the Council to take serious steps and implement effective measures to meet the challenges the EU textile and clothing industry face in 2005.
Having in mind, that whereas the Union’s textile and clothing industry consists of small and medium-sized companies and is high labour intensive, and the Member States may not adopt measures independently, because they have delegated trade policy to the exclusive competence of the EU, I voted to protect European consumers from the counterfeiting textile and clothing products, and to introduce mandatory origin and company-name labelling for the products in this sector, and that any enterprise wishing to export to the EU must declare its compliance with international social and environmental rights and standards.
We should also guarantee our support for textile and clothing companies using opportunities offered by the EU Structural Funds after 2005 in compliance with the Lisbon strategy goals. &#160;&#160; .
I am also referring to the combating of counterfeited products, which damage high-quality production as well as technical and craft-based knowledge assets in the sector.
It would also be a good idea to conduct awareness campaigns in favour of ‘conscious consumption’ to help European consumers to choose products via legible and clear labelling.
Finally, we should not forget that behind every Chinese product sold at a low price there are thousands of jobs lost in Europe, and in China human rights that have been denied, the death penalty, repression and child exploitation.
The abolition of quotas for the trade in textiles, together with China’s accession to the WTO, have made the issue a very topical one.
We are opposed both to the protectionist measures introduced in the spring and to those proposed in this report.
In northern Europe, the textile trade was deregulated as early as the Seventies and Eighties, with big advantages for quite a few countries in southern Europe.
This was a painful process for many regions in northern Europe, but it led to a new competitiveness.
We have known for 10 years that, in 2005, we should be obtaining new arrangements, no longer involving quotas, for the world trade in textiles.
Given the incompetent way in which textile quotas have been dealt with so far, there may however be good reason for drawing up a clear plan for the transition to free trade in textile and clothing products, so easing the strain on those employed in southern Europe’s textile and clothing industry.
I supported amendments which would require that labour standards at sites operated in non-EU countries be monitored, including at sites outsourced by EU companies.
In my region of the Nord Pas de Calais, there is no end to the jobs being lost in industries.
This report proposes nothing new in terms of saving our jobs.
On the contrary, the solutions recommended in this summit of pro-European jargon are extraordinary, naive and schizophrenic.
People criticise US protectionism; and they wish to put forward trivial social measures, while proposing in point 44 to help the Maghreb and Turkey!
In other words, we want protection and national preference in France.
They acted and reacted quickly and effectively, as it was their duty to do to safeguard their interests, first and foremost.
Following the vote on 29 May, this report and the ideology underpinning it is an insult to everyone who has lost, or is on the verge of losing, their job.
The committee has delayed bringing in the import controls needed to launch the safeguard clauses provided for in the WTO and it has not organised itself in order to lay down minimum social and environmental rules in international trade.
Free trade is acceptable only if countries are comparable in social and economic terms.
That is why we must press China, but also the UN and the WTO, for improvements in that country’s working conditions.
However, European textile manufactures deserve to operate on a level playing field and open access to our markets must be mirrored by similar access to third country markets.
Although I am an advocate of the virtues of a capitalist economy and the open market, we must understand that if we do not protect the interests of our firms with competitive potential – and in the Portuguese textile industry there are a number of examples of competitive potential – we will soon be seeing a country of consumers that produces nothing; and if you produce nothing, you cannot consume.
It is in this context that we must look at the issues surrounding the opening up of the textiles market.
It is important for us to show our support for possible ways of developing public service.
Public service is of great importance for democracy and diversity, and it is important for the EU to safeguard it.
I should like to begin by saying to Members that we, in the United Kingdom, have been very grateful and very touched by the messages of support and solidarity in the aftermath of the dreadful terrorist attacks in London.
I believe we would all, on an occasion such as this, like to reiterate our determination, as the European Union, to tackle on an international level the scourge of modern terrorism as one of the greatest threats facing the world.
I believe that the European Union has a major role to play in ensuring that we tackle head-on the menace of international terrorism.
With regard to the budget, I should like to note the historical importance of the 2006 budgetary procedure.
As the last procedure under the current Financial Perspective, it has a special role in bridging past priorities and future objectives.
Of course it also needs to provide a measure of continuity and the basis for coherence between two financial perspectives, but it also must offer the prospect of reform and renewal so that future budgets can genuinely meet the needs and expectations of European citizens in the 21st century.
We will need to build on the spirit of cooperation that has developed between us to deliver in 2006 a budget that offers a shared vision for a better future.
Whilst it is difficult at this stage of this sort of process realistically to reach any level of agreement, the atmosphere, environment and relationships that are being built are healthy and, hopefully, lay the foundations for a process that will lead to a mutually satisfactory conclusion.
To give to a wider audience today an example of the benefits of that cooperation, during the conciliation meeting between the Budget Council and a delegation from the European Parliament on 15 July, we were able to agree two very urgent matters: first, a strategy for financing a significant EC contribution to the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Tsunami-affected countries, and secondly, the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund in favour of Slovakia, to help with the effects of a severe wind storm.
Those are practical, tangible and highly visible actions, important to all of the people that we represent, as well as to the victims of the Tsunami.
In addition, we were able to reach an agreement on the revision of the Financial Perspective ceilings for 2006, to permit modulation in agriculture.
It gives me confidence that, if we retain a constructive and permanent dialogue, and with the assistance of the Commissioner, we will be able to find an appropriate agreement on a balanced and satisfactory budget for 2006 by the end of this budgetary procedure.
Before presenting in some detail the draft budget established by the Council on 15 July 2005, I would like to take this opportunity to recall the main principles which have guided our proposals.
They are fully in line with the Council's budget guidelines for 2006 adopted in March of this year.
That is as relevant in the context of 2006 as it is in any debate about future funding in terms of the next Financial Perspective.
It is important that we are absolutely clear about the principles, the policies and the challenges which lie ahead for the European Union.
First of all, the draft budget established by the Council shows due regard for the current Interinstitutional Agreement of 1999 on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure.
Thirdly, regarding appropriations for payments, the Council has remained committed to a limited and controlled growth consistent with sound and rigorous financial management.
The draft budget takes due account of the implementation rates in previous years and the expected implementation rates in the future.
It also acknowledges fully the dramatic and welcome improvements in the implementation that we have seen in recent times.
Securing the right level of payment appropriations for the EC budget is especially important, and I am sure that all Members will be aware that national budgets are so tightly constrained.
In setting the draft budget, Council took an overall approach which kept to those fundamental principles but which also aimed to provide adequate and realistic funding for the European Union's various budget priorities.
The Council also took a similarly carefully-targeted approach to payment appropriations across the budget affecting both compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure.
While limiting the overall increase of payment appropriations, the draft budget still allows an increase of around 12% for research in light of the priority accorded to objectives set by the Lisbon Strategy and an increase of 9.8% for structural funds, reflecting improved implementation rates.
Let me stress my appreciation for the agreement that we reached to adjust the Financial Perspective ceiling for 2006.
That will allow a transfer of EUR&#160;655&#160;million from market expenditure in subheading 1a to rural development in subheading 1b.
Regarding appropriations, the Council has made an across-the-board reduction in commitments and payments of EUR&#160;150&#160;million, affecting budget lines in subheading&#160;1a greater than EUR 50 million.
I must stress that this modest reduction is in line with the Council's overall approach of controlled growth of payment appropriations, which should apply to both compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure.
The Council has accepted in full the amount proposed by the Commission for subheading 1b, where it believes the implementation is more effective.
Turning to heading 2, on structural operations, the Council has adopted the commitment appropriations proposed by the Commission consistent with the European Council's conclusions of March 1999 in Berlin and of December 2002 in Copenhagen.
Payment appropriations have been reduced across the board by a total of EUR&#160;150 million, which reflects the Council's view of the expected implementation rate and is based on past evidence of implementation shortfalls, taking full account of the significant and welcome improvements achieved recently.
However, the Council limited commitment appropriations for some budget lines that are not based on multiannual programmes such as those based on Commission prerogatives, pilot projects and preparatory actions.
In addition, the Council limited the increase of appropriation for the subsidies of certain decentralised agencies.
It is right that established agencies should face the same budgetary rigour that we expect of central institutions and, indeed, of our own domestic organisations.
However, it is also fair to allow more significant increases for new and developing agencies.
The draft budget seeks to make that distinction.
In considering the level of payment appropriations for heading 3, Council took full account of the need to increase payments, especially for the important research lines that will help to underpin the very important – the central – Lisbon reform agenda.
In this environment, the Council believes that it would be irresponsible to budget the huge increases proposed in the PDB of nearly 12% across that particular heading.
The Council has reduced the overall increase to a more manageable and realistic 5%.
But, very importantly, we should be aware that the draft budget still permits a very substantial increase – and I want to reiterate this – of nearly 12% for research lines, which reflects the priority accorded to this very important policy area.
The Council has provided adequate funding for heading 3 and established a sensible margin of EUR&#160;210&#160;million under the ceiling.
I want to move now from heading 3 to heading 4: External actions.
The Council fully supported the Community pledges and consequential budget proposals for the reconstruction needs in Tsunami-affected countries and in Iraq, and it respected the reference amounts for codecided programmes.
However, the Council took the view that there was still scope to bring total expenditure within the budget ceiling and achieved this by a very modest across-the-board reduction in commitments to the remaining chapters, including, for example, for international fisheries agreements.
After these adjustments, the margin available under heading 4 is EUR&#160;41.65&#160;million, which should allow the financing of the consequences of the forthcoming sugar reforms along the lines we expect the Commission to propose.
I hope that we will be able to reach agreement on the final amount for the CFSP budget and the international fisheries agreements in the course of the second reading of the budget for 2006, as foreseen in the Interinstitutional Agreement.
I am sure you would agree that much progress has been made in recent times in relation to that particular issue.
Moving on now to heading 5, on administrative expenditure, the draft budget aims to respect the ceiling of the Financial Perspective once again and set an adequate margin for unforeseen events.
With this in mind, the Council established a margin of EUR 130&#160;million, to be achieved through savings in operating costs from interinstitutional cooperation and from budget reductions, to reflect the current vacancy rate for the various institutions.
The Council's approach was objective and pragmatic, although we can never expect any institution to be entirely satisfied inevitably by the outcome of our analysis.
The Council accepted the vast majority of the new posts requested by the institutions for enlargement, pre-enlargement and new tasks.
However, it is true that we applied a modest reduction to take account of the significant delay in recruitment for posts granted in previous years.
The Council expressed deep concern about recruitment delays and about the need – the centrality – for there to be geographical balance following enlargement.
It is regrettable that, due to time constraints, we could not agree a jointly-worded statement on this issue on 15 July, but I have every reason to believe that we can still reach such an agreement which would make it absolutely clear that Parliament and the Council are as one in terms of recruitment and retention, of human resource policies.
We have recently received a paper from the Commissioner, which we will be considering over the next few weeks, to inform our position on the question of administration and more specifically of posts.
Moving on now to heading 7, the pre-accession strategy, the Council accepted the commitment appropriations proposed by the Commission.
However we limited the increase for payment appropriations for some budget lines, again taking into account past implementation rates.
Finally, as regards heading 8, on compensations, the Council accepted the full amounts proposed by the Commission in the PDB, which will help ensure that the conclusions of the Copenhagen European Council as regards new Member States are properly fulfilled.
We believe that this draft budget adequately responds to the European Union's various priorities, making the finances available, but it also respects the important principle of budgetary discipline and sound management of which we – the Council and Parliament – are joint custodians.
We meet today in an environment where it is more important than ever that we rebuild, that we strengthen the relationship between the European Union, its institutions and the people of Europe.
Key to that credibility is the way that we manage our finances, to demonstrate that we are efficient, that we are prudent, but also that we jointly spend money in a way that adds value to the everyday quality of life of the people who live in the European Union.
We have to close the gap between rhetoric and reality, because one of our great challenges – those of us who believe passionately in the importance of the European Union – is that often people do not see the work that is done in Parliament, the Commission, the Council as making any difference or being relevant to their everyday concerns about their quality of life and standard of living.
Therefore, it is very important, in the context not only of 2006 but also of the debate on the Financial Perspective for the years ahead, that we constantly have in mind the importance of linking our actions, our words and the decisions that we make with the centrality of making sure that we rebuild and strengthen public confidence and support in the whole function, the work and vision which underpins the European Union.
If we can do that, it will be a very important building block in terms of the challenges which lie ahead, in terms of the necessary reforms to the way that we budget and make decisions about the future.
I think there was general agreement among everybody present – whatever their political ideology, whatever their views – as he outlined the reform agenda and his determination that we achieve that in partnership, that his was a fair analysis of where Europe is now and that now is the time to grasp the nettle and deal with some of the fundamental issues about the future nature of the European Union and its relationship with its citizens.
The 2006 budget may – in the context of that big-picture debate – feel like a relatively small issue.
It will be very well received by those who closely observe the way that we do our business.
I am pleased, Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, to close my remarks and to commend the draft budget to the European Parliament this afternoon. &#160;&#160; On behalf of everyone here, I thank Mr&#160;Lewis, who, on behalf of the Council, has presented the draft general budget for 2006. &#160;&#160; The next item is a general debate on the European Union general budget for 2006. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Lewis’ presentation today of the 2006 budget has confirmed the impression that Parliament’s delegation took away from the Conciliation Committee meeting held on 15&#160;July.
It is indeed true that no&#160;one expects consensus to have been reached at this point in the year, but it cannot be denied that the standpoints of the EU’s two budgetary authorities on the 2006 budget are poles apart.
Our goal is to reach agreement on the budget, but this task will be far from easy.
With our backs to the wall, so to speak, we agreed to a level of payments that falls short of our needs in 2005, as has already become clear from the level of expenditure so far this year.
Furthermore, the 2006 budget must be regarded as a stepping stone to a new Financial Perspective.
A huge gap exists between these 2006 budget proposals and the Commission’s proposals for payments in 2007, which will be the first year of the new Financial Perspective.
This year we have seen the Council taking a more selective and less mechanical approach to budgetary cuts, and I should like to dwell very briefly on the individual headings in turn.
The modulation that has been agreed from Heading&#160;1 can be counted as a joint success.
The pressure is starting to be felt most in Heading 3, that is to say in the field of internal policies, where the largest cuts in relative terms have been made, amounting to over EUR&#160;500&#160;million.
Compensation for sugar producers presents us with a further problem, and the Commission has also raised the issue of administrative expenses, with the possibility of a freeze on the recruitment of employees from the new Member States.
To sum up, our debate on the 2006 budget is taking place against a general backdrop of pessimism.
As pointed out by President Lewandowski, we expressed our disappointment very sincerely and firmly back in July, at the Conciliation Committee.
The cuts in the budget – or, if you prefer, your budget forecasts – in relation to the agricultural sector and the Structural Funds, although more limited than last year, confirm the tendency towards an unjustified severity.
There is an inconsistency between declarations in favour of growth, employment and measures designed to help young people, on the one hand, and on the other hand the reduction of funds in the budget headings, which are vital for achieving these objectives.
In my view, this is the fundamental political problem that we need to clarify first of all in order to take consistent action.
We are worried and disappointed, but we continue to ask for more reflection on your part and we await, Commissioner, more determined pressure from the European Commission.
Within this Parliament, in our midst, the idea is growing of a shake-up, of action taken not on impulse but in a considered manner, to open up people’s eyes and recall everyone to their duties.
We in Parliament, and we hope that Prime Minister Blair and the UK Presidency feel the same, cannot stand passively by while Europe declines. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr Lewis, Mrs Grybauskaitė, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Lewis for his presentation of the budget of the other EU institutions for 2006.
Clearly, the European Parliament and the Council have different approaches on certain issues regarding the drafting of the budget, but there are also various common threads.
The Council is proposing to reduce the administrative expenditure of the EU institutions by 120&#160;million euro as compared with the institutions’ original requests.
It must be said, however, that in many cases this reduction has been implemented in an ill-considered manner, without thorough examination of the specific nature and problems of the institutions’ work.
For this reason, the European Parliament will be proposing a review of the reduction in the institutions’ expenditure, assessing each institution’s budget request and new tasks in 2006 on its individual merits.
As the budget rapporteur, I believe that the Committee on Budgets will need additional information on various matters in order to be able to take each decision on its own merits, particularly in relation to the European Parliament’s information and communication policy.
Achieving a ceiling of 20% of joint administrative expenditure is not an end in itself.
The Council’s proposal to reduce payment appropriations for EU structural funds for 2006 by 150 million euro is incomprehensible.
I would like to share the idea held by most speakers that the 2006 budget is a special one, as it is the last of the current Financial Perspective drawn up by the Commission seeking to most comprehensively and realistically take into consideration the most pressing needs of the European Union, to complete all the important projects and to prepare well for the new financial period.
Therefore, in response to the proposal of the Council, I would like to immediately define three areas that in the Commission’s opinion are the most challenging.
Furthermore, half of the proposed reductions in payment appropriations are concentrated on activities which represent only about 10% of the total budget.
The third problem concerns the negotiations on the fisheries agreement with Morocco.
All these three elements make it more difficult to accept or look favourably upon the Council's proposal.
As promised, on Friday I sent to both budgetary authorities additional information on the progress of recruitment from EU-10 and EU-15.
By 31 July this year, 90% of the recruitment targets from new Member States had been fulfilled.
We believe that the proposed reductions forwarded by the Council are the result of a misunderstanding between us and may well derive from a technical error.
We very much expect that, before second reading, we will be able to engage in consultations with the Council in particular in an effort to resolve this issue.
The proposal on the table today means that for 2006 not only will we be unable to recruit from EU-10, but we will be stopping all recruitment in the Commission, as well as lacking the resources to pay salaries for existing staff levels.
Despite the criticism then expressed by the European Parliament concerning insufficient appropriations for commitments and payments, on 15 July 2005 the ECOFIN Council decided to propose a reduction of allocations for payments by EUR 1.1 billion and commitment appropriations by EUR 478 million as compared to the Preliminary Draft Budget.
This proposal, in my opinion, clearly demonstrates that the Council virtually disregards the actual needs and commitments of the European Union.
We also invited the Council to enter into a serious and constructive dialogue with the European Parliament concerning the ways to fulfil these political commitments.
We, the European Parliament, have stressed before and would like to point out once again the important external assistance programmes that could not be foreseen while considering the current financial perspective, for instance those related to Afghanistan and Iraq, and the recently proposed post-tsunami reconstruction package.
I would also like to draw your attention to other alarming reductions related to specific thematic and geographical measures.
I would also like to emphasise the importance of the European Neighbourhood Policy including support to democratic developments in the neighbouring States.
I must reiterate that the accession of ten new Member States in 2004, which is only the beginning of a long-lasting cohesion process, is a new challenge to the cohesion policy, meaning that the implementation of the cohesion policy should focus on regions in order to avoid possible future conflicts between the new Member States and the less developed regions of the EU-15.
I would like to conclude by once again calling on the Council to be guided by the priorities established by the European Parliament in drafting the 2006 budget.
We are, basically, being penalised for our efforts by seeing how there is EUR&#160;150 million less available for payments.
In the preliminary draft budget, the Commission really has made only the absolute minimum necessary available in terms of funding for structural policy.
The Council wants to reduce the budget of the European Union by half a billion euros compared to the Commission’s proposal.
This is in itself unacceptable, but what is particularly unacceptable is the fact that more than one third of these cuts relate to external relations and external affairs.
The successes and achievements of the European Union to date have been related in no small measure to external relations.
The Council has virtually never invoked the human rights clause.
We support a multitude of countries that make a mockery of democracy and human rights.
In order to make clear what I mean by calling this budget transitional, let us take a look at the Böge report and at what we expect of the Financial Perspective.
There is a major difference between us and the Council; it adds up to EUR&#160;106 billion in the Financial Perspective.
We believe that, in order to make Europe truly fit for the future, we have to focus on quite specific target areas: research, education, youth, cultural interchange in an enlarged Europe, the environment and renewable energies – and I have recent events in New Orleans in mind when I say that.
The figures it has quoted to us bear no relation either to the pious utterance about Lisbon as a means of renewal or to the great economic potential that we have to rebuild.
From my group’s point of view, the basic problems are the low level of budget payment appropriations and the budget’s main areas of focus.
Virtually the only thing that the Council seems to be actively interested in financing is the militarisation of the EU.
Although the Constitution, which was rejected in two referenda, is not immediately forthcoming, the political elite in the Member States are implementing some of the articles contained in it, and are establishing, for example, an Armaments, Research and Capabilities Agency.
The way that the Member States behave is undemocratic, and it is very obvious that many EU joint military activities have no legal basis in the Treaties.
I do not therefore agree that I am expressing my displeasure at money not being spent.
I am not, however, prepared to return these surpluses to the Member States.
I therefore believe that these resources should be used for developing the flexibility margin and not for developing structural funds. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, when the foundations of the European Communities were laid over half a century ago, Poland and the other new Member States were part of the Soviet bloc.
Yet any satisfaction one might derive from this fact is marred by developments that are now becoming ever more evident in certain net payer countries.
If the Financial Perspective has not been adopted by spring of next year, the reduced 2006 budget could serve as the basis for future budgets, and the worrying developments I mentioned a short time ago could persist for many years.
The first of these favours spending on development to the detriment of agricultural subsidies, whilst the second gives preference to the social dimension of the EU project over the Lisbon Strategy.
Such a belief would merely boost selfish national interests, and, in so doing, result in a disastrous compromise that delivers neither development nor solidarity.
The draft budget for 2006 further widened the gap between the commitments and the payments, as well as between available resources of national budgets and the EU budget.
The lack of funds to cover key EU policies has therefore been a subject of criticism in the first stage of the discussion about the proposed budget in the European Parliament.
Council’s interventions therefore evoke the impression of a&#160;technocratic reduction in expenditures under the motto ‘let us cut by one half the increase in expenditures exceeding those of 2005’, and the motto ‘let us take away more where the expenditures are lower than in 2005’.
This approach by the European Council undermines the atmosphere of mutual trust in the current budgeting process, and could lead to a&#160;protracted position war between the key institutions of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Madam President, budgets are about priorities and for the Committee on Regional Development and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, pride of place among these goes to the Millennium Objectives.
One in five people worldwide have no access to basic education or basic health care, and the chasm is growing every day despite all the pledges by Heads of Government.
Today, with the help of the Committee on Budgets, we want to bring the Millennium Objectives closer. ‘Make poverty history’. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;Lewis, except when it comes to the foreign budget, agreeing on the 2006 budget really ought, of course, to be a simple matter, for there is plenty of room for the increases requested by the Commission within the ceiling of the financial perspectives.
We in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe particularly regret the slashing of programmes for developing small and medium-sized businesses – programmes that, for example, help the banks make credit available to small businesses in the new Member States where, with limited resources, a large dispersal effect has been achieved, benefiting economic development.
Mr&#160;Lewis spoke of dialogue, and I do hope we can obtain dialogue and cooperation.
With the 1% of GDP destined for the budget, policy is impossible.
They are the ones who vote for us, they have the last word. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, the Committee on Foreign Affairs is concerned about the cuts made by the Council in crucial areas relating to Europe’s influence in external matters.
Finally, we insist before the Council, as we did before the Commission, that the budget allocated to the reconstruction of Iraq is entirely managed by the United Nations and not in part by the World Bank Trust Fund, as Parliament has already requested on two occasions. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr Szent-Iványi and I have tabled an amendment to reduce the amount for CFSP by 3.87%.
Such a reduction would bring it into line with all the other external action components, which the Council has reduced by an average of - you have guessed it - 3.87%.
In the absence of any serious justification, I am inclined to believe that these reductions express the half-heartedness of the Member States in entrusting the EU with a strong foreign policy of its own, not to mention the absence of clarity on the roles and responsibilities of the Commission, the Council, the European Council and the High Representative in these matters. &#160;&#160; Madam President, everyone acknowledges the role aid can play in improving development, and President Barroso himself promised EUR&#160;300&#160;million more for aid for trade at the G8 Summit this year.
As the budget spokesman for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I asked the Commission how much we currently spend on aid for trade, and it took them two weeks to work it out, because it is currently spread over around 120 different budget lines.
We are therefore going to propose the creation of a new budget line called 'Aid for Trade'.
As permanent rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets for the Structural Funds, I would like to draw your attention to the reduction, for several consecutive years now, of the amount allocated to payment appropriations in Heading 2 dedicated to structural actions.
In the context of a crisis of confidence in a Europe that is apparently no longer able to offer its citizens a reformed economic model, a competitive model, a model that is fit to rise to the great challenges of the 21st century, the Heads of State or Government have thought it appropriate to reduce by EUR&#160;150&#160;million the amount of payment appropriations proposed by the Commission.
Europe needs more than ever to invest in infrastructures in order to maintain its competitiveness and its jobs, undoubtedly just as much in the new Member States as in the others.
This EUR&#160;150&#160;million reduction is therefore out of keeping with the findings made by our Assembly with regard to the new challenges confronting us.
I would also like to draw your attention to the major ecological risk to which the draft budget is exposing our continent, as the budget for the agencies as a whole is being maintained at its previous level, in particular that of the European Maritime Safety Agency which, in the wake of the and disasters, was entrusted with the highly important task of implementing better monitoring of discards and of chartering anti-pollution vessels in the event of an accident off our coasts.
The Council has inexplicably proposed reducing from 29 to … &#160;&#160; – Madam President, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, we would point out that, with the proposals for the 2006 budget, the Commission and the Council have failed to rise to the occasion.
The Commission has cut the budget for agricultural policy, especially for the guarantees section, by approximately EUR 1.9 billion below the financial limit, on the basis of unrealistic forecasts for purchases of agricultural products in 2006.
At the same time, the Council of Ministers of Agriculture has made an unexplained linear cut in spending of a further EUR 150 million.
In addition, the appropriations for rural development may be exhausted, but they are inadequate to meet the real needs of rural development in the face of enlargement.
As far as this economy is concerned, I am sure that the President-in-Office of the Council is aware of the statistics that show that European expenditure, which falls within the remit of the European Parliament, has increased by 8% over a ten-year period, while Member State expenditure has risen by something like 23%.
I do not therefore believe that it is for the Council to teach us a lesson in responsible budget management.
I understand that cuts are being made this year because certain budget lines are high and can therefore be cut back.
Some of those actions are excellent and certainly now, with avian influenza, we will need to do more in this area.
If we want to pursue the Lisbon Strategy and the recommendations of the Locatelli report, this Parliament cannot under any circumstances accept the proposed reduction in all the headings relating to research and the promotion of innovation in small and medium–sized businesses.
It also reflects the mid-term review of the Lisbon Strategy and the funds involved in its implementation.
Given that the budget is already low, this reduction amounts to a glaring lack of political will to make this pilot project a success story, rather than merely a desultory campaign.
I also regret the paucity of appropriations for EURES, the essential instrument for developing the single European labour market, which is tantamount to discrimination in relation to the amounts requested and obtained by Parliament this year.
The funds earmarked for social dialogue have also been cut in relation to the preliminary draft proposal, which runs counter to Parliament’s position.
As the new Member States are only just starting to become involved in the EU budget, the Council’s proposal shows that the 1% ceiling for expenditure, as suggested by certain states, will be impossible to put into effect.
That alone is ridiculous enough in the eyes of some Members, but now the Council has excelled itself by cutting the estimates, which were low enough in any case.
In their speeches on television and in public, all the members of the Council talk endlessly about their desire to build a citizens’ Europe.
On behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I also wanted to express our disappointment faced with the sombre cuts made to programmes that Parliament feels very strongly about, such as PRINCE concerning information for European citizens, and in particular faced with the cuts that have been made in headings promoting new resources for SMEs.
That is what is missing in the draft budget proposed to us and, on behalf of my committee, I wish to inform you of our utter disappointment. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I wish to inform the House that the Committee was guided by three considerations when formulating its position.
The first of these was projects in the field of transport policy, the second was the report on European tourism, and the third and final consideration related to the fact that this is the last year of the current Financial Perspective.
Secondly, our aim is to introduce a budgetary line for tourism, for the first time in history.
Our guiding principle in this respect was that we are helpless in the face of the air and land-based disasters that we experience or witness.
We should ensure that we are not helpless in the case of disasters at sea, and that we are capable of responding to such disasters. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, the Hague Programme states that, in the area of justice and home affairs, our first priority is to create full-blown policies to promote fundamental rights for all and policies strengthening citizenship.
We wish to find a fair balance between freedom and security.
The budget must also be balanced, and we very much hope that we shall move from important speeches to action.
The European Union has a great challenge to take up: equal opportunities for all.
We know that all forms of violence are rooted in injustice, and it is in our interests to equip ourselves with the resources to fight against injustice. &#160;&#160; Madam President, if Europe wants to be accepted by its citizens, we have to be perceived to be working for them.
If we want to make Europe the most competitive, knowledge-led and dynamic region in the world, we have to put aside more money in the budget for this.
Plans, the Lisbon Strategy, the Youth Pact, ambitious action programmes in research, culture and the media – all these things you adopt and then slash the funding needed for their implementation.
If we want people to approve of our policies, we have to act in accordance with them.
I am grateful to Mr Pittella for laying bare the contradiction in what the Council is doing, and I call on the Commission to join this House in taking an approach that will equip us with a good budget that will come across clearly to the public. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the laying down of a sustainable common fisheries policy will do nothing to make our tasks in this area less daunting.
This reduction goes against all that which we have discussed here in the past months.
A solution has always been sought on the basis of the Council’s original position, which was completely unacceptable to the other two institutions.
The Commission originally presented a proposal for the funding of aid for the reconstruction of the countries affected by the tsunami which we in Parliament considered to be acceptable and logical.
Nevertheless, both the European Parliament’s statement and the statement by the Council in January of this year said that none of that EUR 350 million, which amounts to the bulk of the reconstruction aid, could be financed from the budgetary headings already committed.
It has unfortunately taken that long to reach a decision on the mobilisation of all of this aid in order to present it for the approval of this House.
The Council intended to finance part of this reconstruction aid by sacrificing programmes already established by the European Union.
The President–in–Office of the Council said in the previous debate that he is optimistic about the additional EUR 13 million that we have to fund in 2005.
This should be a lesson for all of us as we prepare for the negotiations on the post-2007 budget framework and on the instruments that will be needed in future.
At the outset, the Commission came up with a proposal that envisaged such measures as the use of the flexibility instrument to the tune of EUR&#160;98 million.
While I am on this subject, the point has to be made that it was the European Parliament that said, from the very outset of the negotiations following the Heads of State or Government’s adoption, in 1999, of Agenda 2000, that Category IV was chronically underfunded, in the same way that foreign and security policy and the neighbourhood policy were likely to be chronically underfunded if the Luxembourg compromise for the new Financial Perspective were adopted.
Events have proved us right, for the fact is that unforeseen measures have made it necessary for this flexibility instrument to be resorted to every year, so what I want to say is that the embarrassing situation in which we find ourselves as regards time and resources obliges us to agree to this compromise.
I would like to make use of this debate to reiterate that we, not least in the course of negotiations on the next Financial Perspective and the instruments associated with it, will do everything possible to introduce greater flexibility and more room for manoeuvre.
I tried to explain that, although the needs of the Commission are paramount, I recognise that it has to make commitments, put money in the trust fund and then start spending those funds on whatever projects we have undertaken.
Nothing has changed in the last seven months, since 26&#160;December 2004.
However, we need to understand that, no matter how generous we are in giving and in wanting to help the people most in need, absorptive capacity and the ability to act fast in times of crisis are limited.
As we have seen in New Orleans, even the most powerful nation in the world is unable to cope with tragedies of this kind.
It has taught us that our Humanitarian Office, ECHO, has more expertise and is better prepared to deal with these emergencies than any other institution in the world.
The one positive contribution we can make is to teach people what we have already learned on many occasions.
It relates to the activities that we committed to financing in order to support the reconstruction of the countries affected so seriously by the tsunami in December&#160;2004.
The budgetary authority has taken all this time to release the promised funds.
I have to tell you that we consider this to be a scandal, because no poor country has become richer; quite the opposite, poverty is spreading in all these countries.
I now turn to Mr&#160;Böge to say: let us take account of this event, of this problem, when negotiating the next financial perspectives.
I will join them in recalling how, in response to this dreadful tsunami disaster and for the benefit of the world public, the Council announced Europe’s intention of making available EUR&#160;350&#160;million worth of aid for the tsunami’s victims.
That was announced at the beginning of this year and was intended to run throughout 2005 and 2006.
I also take the view that the funds made available for other aid programmes in Asia, which some now want to use for emergency aid, must be replaced whatever happens; the Millennium Goals demand it, and I believe that the credibility of the European Union is at stake here.
I do believe, though, that the European Union had to consider the victims’ needs and could not have waited any longer to vote these funds once and for all and to make them available, for to do otherwise would have adversely affected its credibility.
Despite that criticism, and in view of the difficult negotiations that await us in 2006, I call upon them to ensure that these negotiations take a different course and that we will again be able to avail ourselves of the flexibility instrument for emergency situations such as these – that is to say, in the way it was intended to be used.
As part of these comprehensive, rightful and appropriate efforts, the proposal by the rapporteur that EUR&#160;100 million be allocated in 2005 for reconstruction and recovery should be supported.
This figure is in addition to the EUR&#160;123 million already provided for humanitarian aid and the commitment to pay the remaining sum of EUR&#160;250 million in 2006 and 2007.
As representatives of European citizens, however, we also have the responsibility to intervene with the relevant authorities, particularly in Indonesia, the Maldives and Sri Lanka, to ensure that the aid reaches the people quickly and that as a result work is done and the necessary steps are taken to achieve effective, visible and concrete improvements in the living conditions of these peoples. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, I have risen to speak in this debate on amendments to the 2005 budget and the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument because I believe that the proposals contained in the Garriga Polledo and Böge reports will enable the European Union to honour the commitments it has entered into vis-à-vis the countries hit by the tsunami.
I should like to take this opportunity to draw Members’ attention to three problems of a more general nature.
The Asian tsunami, the hurricane in Slovakia, the floods in Austria, Romania and Germany, the fires in Spain and Portugal and the recent disaster in the United States are merely some of the disasters that have happened this year.
What this means is that we must set aside significantly more funding in future EU budgets to enable us to provide assistance to countries affected by natural disasters.
Secondly, promises of assistance are easy enough to make, but a great deal more difficult to put into action.
A good example of this is the funding for areas suffering the consequences of the Asian tsunami, which is an issue that has already been raised today.
The hurricane hit the country in autumn 2004, but it is only now, one year later, that we are sending money to Slovakia to help the country cope with the consequences of this natural disaster.
I am quite sure that this House’s adoption of the Garriga Polledo and Böge reports, which we are debating today, will help ensure that money is made available more rapidly for such matters. &#160;&#160; Madam President, this issue has been discussed for quite a long time.
At the same time, I am, on behalf of the Committee on Development, disappointed at the result.
We have also always maintained that we should, as far as possible, safeguard the disaster reserve and make use instead of the flexibility instrument.
We shall support this proposal but go on working to bring about a situation in which efforts in connection with major disasters like this must in the first place be funded from new resources and through the flexibility instrument.
Finally, I would hope and believe that the resources now set aside for reconstruction and readjustment will be used in the wisest possible way and that, above all, as many aspects as possible of disaster preparedness will be incorporated.
The experience was a painful one for all of us, mainly because we were slow in delivering on our promises and the respective budgetary authorities were not sufficiently sensitive to each other's positions.
This experience showed how difficult it is to solve our internal problems and at the same time to help those in emergency situations in the world.
Finally, however, we reached a decision, and I hope that you will vote in favour of the mobilisation of the EUR&#160;15&#160;million from the flexibility instrument in this plenary.
Therefore, from our point of view, we have done the best we can.
The Commission will be in a position to come forward with a proposal on the matter by the end of this month. &#160;&#160; That concludes the joint debate.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0330/2005).
The current SAA linking the EU with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, in force since 2004, and specifically Protocol 4 thereof, clearly sets out the requirements and procedures for granting preferential treatment to products originating in that country, including the movement certificates and other proofs of origin.
The text of the agreement refers to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as the only designation of the country and accordingly that is the only name that can be taken into account as the country of origin on the movement certificates and other documentation required for preferential treatment to be accorded.
This is a general rule when such devices are intended for a legitimate purpose, but the situation is different if the purpose is malicious and the intention is to harm a computer system or its user.
However, in February 2005, the 25 Member States went beyond the e-Privacy Directive by adopting the Framework Decision on illegal attacks against information systems.
Under this Framework Decision, spyware-related activities involving illegal access and interference with information systems are punishable by criminal penalties of no less than one to three years' imprisonment, and of no less than two to five years' imprisonment when committed by organised crime.
The Commission is therefore planning to put forward a strategy for a secure information society that puts together various actions to make electronic communications networks safer from fraudsters, harmful content and technology failures, and to increase trust.
ENISA will help the Community, the Member States and, consequently, business communities to prevent, address and respond to major network and information security risks. &#160;&#160; I thank Commissioner Reding for her comprehensive reply.
I am encouraged by the measures that are already in place for dealing with this threat.
That is why I would like to say that I organised a reply in quite a general political manner and I would like to read out this answer officially.
As the Honourable Member implies, the deadlock on the financial perspective has done nothing to reduce the urgency to reach an agreement.
There is a real risk that the necessary measures will not be in place to allow Union policies to be delivered effectively beyond 2006.
We must remain focused on the goal of a better balanced budget with a good compromise between existing spending on our tried-and-tested policies, and our new policy agenda for growth and jobs.
The Commission also looks forward to the efforts of the Presidency of the Council to lead the debate and take the initiatives required to reach a compromise.
The Commission will continue to work actively to find a compromise which will enjoy the necessary support amongst Member States, and will allow for the agreement of Parliament, the Council and the Commission to the interinstitutional agreement setting up the new financial perspective. &#160;&#160; – I should like to point out to the Commissioner that I read her interview with on 18 February 2005.
I quote, because the text needs to go down in history: I believe, the Commissioner says, that the proposal of the Six is not possible and that we shall reach a percentage of over 1%.
I stand by the opinion I have held until now. &#160;&#160; Putting aside the United Kingdom's individual position, would you agree that, in its capacity as the Presidency, it is making strenuous efforts to find consensus in this matter, by touring Member States and discussing with them the different objectives?
As a result, the Commission has developed a new approach to European communication based on three strategic principles that all clearly put the citizens at the heart of European policies.
Secondly, it will better communicate how its policies affect their everyday lives – an aspect mentioned by the honourable Members.
On 20 July 2005, this materialised in the adoption of the internal action plan to improve the way in which the Commission communicates Europe.
In this paper, the Commission will set out the policy vision and the initiatives that it thinks have to be undertaken in the medium and long term, in cooperation with other actors.
Among these actors are the European institutions: Parliament, in particular, has an essential role to play.
However, if we really want to achieve substantial change in European communications, it is true that it is even more urgent to enhance cooperation and coordination with the Member States in order to set up a strong partnership with their governments and regional authorities, civil society and the media as well.
The White Paper will address the role of all the stakeholders and launch a broad consultation procedure in order to give them the possibility to define and organise their input.
However, the public debate on Europe in the first half of this year has shown that at present there is no agreement or understanding about what Europe is for and where it is heading.
In order to reconnect Europe's citizens with the European project, they and their organisations must be given a stronger voice, and we, the decision-makers, must develop the ability to better listen to their concerns and expectations.
The Commission's role in this process would be that of a facilitator, providing support to Member States and civil societies to make this plan D happen.
Again, this is not something that the Commission or, for that matter, the EU institutions can do alone.
I would like to add to what has been said by the Commissioner that we should probably add your blog, which I read on the Internet and of which I am a great fan, to what has been listed here.
When people have been asked in Eurobarometer opinion polls, for example, most have said that it is a good idea to cooperate.
There are consultation groups and citizens' groups; if you had put a group outside Pilate's palace they still would have told you to free Barabas.
That is what we are involved in right now, in discussing the budget for 2006 and the future financial perspective as well.
It is very important that we accompany these actions with the necessary resources.
These offices operate in each and every Member State and are familiar with the debate.
We have to equip them in the best possible way so that they can communicate with their own citizens, in their own language, where they understand the conditions, the sensitivities and the debate.
Indeed, we invite a number of journalists from Member States every year and these courses are very popular.
It often comes from the media; of course, I do not know how much comes from outside Europe – it is impossible to say – but a lot comes from our own media, and we will work with the other institutions to improve the rebuttal service and to be quicker and sharper in how we respond. &#160;&#160; Is it not the case, Commissioner, that both Parliament and the Commission are going about their information work in the wrong way by often concentrating on four-colour printed matter that nobody reads and which just lies around in information offices?
We have to invest and strike a better balance in how we respond or where we put out information, taking account also of modern traditions.
We have to be more accessible and more reader-friendly in what we do on the Internet, for example.
This will always be an ongoing debate, but we have to be more effective in putting facts and figures out.
On 20 July, the Commission adopted a package of measures designed to improve communication and with the help of which we wish to show in a clear and pragmatic way how we can improve the dialogue with people throughout the EU.
Our measures are based on three principles: listening better, describing how EU policy affects people’s everyday lives and giving the message a local slant.
It is about more actively soliciting people’s views and, right from the beginning, taking account of these when new policy and legislation are drawn up.
Mr&#160;Lundgren asks me whether I believe that the EU institutions have already been given too much power at the expense of the Member States and would be given still more under the proposal to establish a constitution for Europe.
My answer is no.
Firstly, the fact is that every decision to give powers to the EU institutions is an independent decision by the Member States.
Moreover, the purpose is not, of course, to the role of the national governments but to their opportunities to achieve goals of common interest. &#160;&#160; It all sounds very splendid when Commissioner Wallström says that listening is imperative and when she emphasises the voluntary nature of democracy, with the people’s views being passed on to those given the power to govern.
However, the whole of the debate we are hearing here in the Chamber, not just today but at other times too, shows of course that what actually happens is precisely the opposite.
We have put forward a proposal about establishing a Constitution for Europe.
Referenda on this proposal have been held in two founder Member States, with the people voting against it.
It is important to carry out this analysis and simply to listen to the arguments that were used.
The votes also reflect a situation and problems that are more far-reaching and that exist not only in those countries but also elsewhere around Europe.
People today demand more of our democratic systems.
The right is the right I have as a person to be given information about what is going on, how decisions are made and what is being decided of relevance to me, my everyday life and my future.
The obligation is the obligation of these democratic institutions to inform people about what is happening, what decisions are being taken and how people can be involved and exercise influence.
Those votes are of no less value than those of the countries that have withheld ratification.
The European Parliament is legitimated by reason of being directly and democratically elected.
The Commission derives its legitimacy from the European Parliament and from the governments elected by the national parliaments, and this entitles it to argue politically the case for objectives held by a majority of its own number.
I believe there is much more to be done to ensure that people have the facts explained to them, especially in the case of highly topical debates. &#160;&#160; I welcome the initiative concerning the plan for debate, dialogue and democracy.
Obviously, different institutions should provide information about their activities.
Clearly, we politicians should go home and provide information about what is happening here in Parliament and then conduct a dialogue based on the decisions we take.
I looked at different local authorities in Sweden in order to see what in actual fact ties in with the decisions taken by the European Parliament.
In every case, there were at least three or four issues that could be directly linked up with the debates conducted in this Chamber and the decisions taken here.
That is certainly what will take the longest time before it has become a natural part of the political debate at all levels, but it is something for which we must strive.
The debate is one in which we must engage with the Member States, the governments and the political parties.
In particular, this proposal specifies that Member States shall ensure that certain activities are criminal offences, when committed intentionally or with serious negligence, as far as they breach the rules of Community law.
On 27&#160;January, however, the Council adopted, instead of this proposal for a directive, a framework decision based on Title&#160;VI of the Treaty on European Union.
The Member States had to adopt the measures necessary to comply with this framework decision before 27&#160;January&#160;2005.
The Commission is currently studying the national transposition measures notified to it by the Member States in order to provide the Council, as specified by the framework decision, with a report enabling it to check, no later than by 27&#160;January&#160;2006, the extent to which Member States have taken the measures necessary to comply with the framework decision.
If the Court follows its advocate-general, a new legal instrument, this time a Community one, will have to be adopted to protect the environment through criminal law, including to prevent the fraudulent cross-border transport of waste. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I am indebted to the Commissioner for his exhaustive and correct chronology of the facts, and I think that this question is very timely.
This is a serious crime and represents a risk to the environment, very often also a risk to food safety and public health, and those engaged in it are also often criminals linked with the mafia – a term I use in its traditional sense.
If, on 13&#160;September, the Court supports the Commission’s opinion, which is shared by the European Parliament, the Commission will very quickly launch an initiative in this vein. &#160;&#160; As the author is not present,Question No. 46 lapses.
The next question is In June the Director-General of DG JLS told the LIBE committee that a 'no-fly' list is simply a list of people the US has decided it does not want entering its territory.
The Commission would seek opportunities to discuss any such proposal which could have implications more generally for international air travel.
The European Union has a rigorous policy on aviation security, but that does not include a no-fly list.
The inclusion of persons in a no-fly list, however, does not mean that they are guilty of, or suspected of, involvement in criminal activity or other wrongdoing.
I will be discussing this and other issues during my next meeting with Secretary Chertoff in Washington in early October. &#160;&#160; .
I believe that is still a valid question. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that my reply must be extremely short and I would like to repeat that it is a fact that these decisions are the exclusive responsibility of the US Government.
Europe, the European Union, I say again, and this is a matter of fact, does not have any competence to obtain authority or to require a reply on the criteria that govern inclusion in this no-fly list.
We believe that it is not necessary to supply the no-fly list for Europe, but we are in contact with the United States to obtain those clarifications that we have not yet obtained.
As I have said, I will go to Washington in person to obtain, among other things, a reply to this question. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the delegation for relations with the United States visited America a few weeks ago.
As I said, it would be possible first of all to provide for the communication to the airlines of persons included on the no-fly list, to be provided suitably in advance of the aircraft’s departure, precisely to avoid cases such as those that have occurred of errors being discovered when the aeroplane is already in flight, with route diversions as a result.
We are talking exclusively about overflying the territory of the United States, not about flights from and to the United States. &#160;&#160; – You had a meeting with the US minister responsible in June 2005 on these issues and, in a written reply by the European Commission to my question on the subject, you say that the minister, Mr Chertov, asked you for more controls on passengers and cargo, improved used of technology for such controls and the removal of obstacles to the operability of mechanisms for imposing controls.
Our request to the United States was obviously not intended to interfere in the issue of US national security, but to obtain a guarantee regarding compliance with privacy in the handling of personal data.
With regard to the first proposal, as you know, the European Police College (CEPOL) was established by the Council Decision of 22&#160;December&#160;2000, and I think we can say that it is now in a position to fulfil its role.
Two Council decisions in&#160;2004 gave it legal personality and named Bramshill in the United Kingdom as its permanent headquarters.
A proposal presented by the Commission in October&#160;2004 with the aim of improving the legal framework of the CEPOL is waiting for formal approval from the Council.
The proposal relating to the setting up of a specialist European service for external border controls, too, has led to the establishment, by the Council Regulation of 26&#160;October&#160;2004, of a European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States.
As regards the external borders, I would like to ask whether thought is already being given to the possibility of joint units on them, or whether this is not yet being done at present. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposals to improve CEPOL – the police academy – will move in the direction of more rigorous control by the EU institutions and certainly in the direction of more substantial funding.
In my view, one of the most important tasks is training the officers in the police forces of the 25 Member States.
Personally, I have always said that I was in favour of joint training for all the Member States’ border officials, so that if in the future the conditions warrant it, we will be able to prepare a European border officials force and a border police force.
Opinions still differ on the matter, but to me it seems necessary for the Agency to be able to start to help the Member States immediately in operational checking activities at the borders.
In addition, Member States can also put forward proposals for joint operations and pilot projects which the agency may then decide to co-finance.
The agency shall evaluate the results of all operational activities carried out under its aegis.
If Member States carry out operations at external borders outside the framework of the agency, they shall report on such activities to the agency.
The Commission expects the agency to play a major role in developing and promoting at European level the highest possible standards in this regard.
The Hague programme asked for the establishment of common standards for persons to be returned in a humane manner and with full respect for their human rights and dignity.
As you know, the Commission and the European Parliament take a different approach to this specific issue of addressing immigration flows and there is a great deal of concern within the European Parliament about not touching on basic human rights.
As it is a field that falls outside Community competence, unfortunately &#160;may I say&#160; the Commission does not have the right to institute infringement proceedings against the Member States that have not implemented this framework decision.
Nevertheless, Europol has participated in a number of cross-border investigations that do not fall within the precise framework of the joint investigation team and, at times, has coordinated some of them, such as Operation Ice–Breaker on 13&#160;June&#160;2005 targeting Internet child pornography, during which 153&#160;searches were carried out simultaneously in 13 different countries.
Finally, in its 2002 communication on democratic control over Europol, the Commission supported the idea of a joint committee of national parliaments and the European Parliament responsible for discussing matters related to Europol.
As you may know, two half-day meetings have been scheduled in Brussels in October, between the European Parliament and the national parliaments, specifically regarding parliamentary control of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
I will do all I can to put political pressure on Member States to strengthen transparency and to try to make relations between Europol and the European Parliament and other European institutions more transparent. &#160;&#160; In terms of accountability, has the Commission sought a report from Europol on its apparent failure in detecting and impeding the progress of three international terrorists who fled as fugitives from justice in Colombia, before publicly appearing last month within the European Union, in Dublin?
The issue, as many of you will probably know, concerns the conformity of two reference circulars, one adopted in 2000 and the other in 2004, regarding the issue of visas and the circulars on specific subjects implementing the two reference circulars.
The first circular, adopted on 3&#160;March 2000 and known as the Völlmer circular, has been deemed by the Commission not to be in line with the principles of the Common Consular Instructions currently in force.
The conclusion that we came to, after our first stage of thorough examination, is that the 2004 circular remedies the general issue of conformity with the Common Consular Instructions in force.
We also said, however, to the German authorities in our reply, and also of course to Mr Wuermeling, that, even though overall the 2004 circular seems to be in line with the Common Consular Instructions, clarifications, specifications and improvements in drafting are necessary in the text of the circular in force, adopted in 2004.
This is why the proposal for a revision of the Common Consular Instructions, which we will submit in early 2006, will be even clearer as regards incomplete information provided by an applicant, and as regards cases where elements are found to be untrue; the rule will be absolutely binding: a visa cannot and must not be issued. &#160;&#160; – I am very much obliged to the Commissioner for his clear statements on the ‘Volmer decree’, which simply was not in conformity with the law.
I should like to emphasise once more that this is not a matter for Germany alone, because many people entered the EU on a German visa and then moved on to other Member States.
In addition, as you said, this is not a German issue in a narrow sense, but concerns the need to ensure that all consulates in all the European Union Member States prevent the entry on a properly issued visa of anyone who cannot demonstrate that they fulfil the legal requirements laid down by the Common Instructions.
Voluntary resettlement will be an important element in every regional protection programme in terms of providing a lasting solution for refugees and demonstrating the partnership element to the third countries involved.
With regard to the development of an EU-wide resettlement scheme, the Commission believes that it is more appropriate to follow a step-by-step approach, as resettlement is a policy that is new to most Member States.
The objective is therefore to encourage and facilitate to the greatest possible extent Member States' participation in the EU resettlement effort.
In order to achieve that objective, the Commission services are working on an amendment to the Council decision of 2004 establishing the European Refugee Fund for the period 2005-2010, which would envisage that resettlement activities could be substantially financed by the Community as of 2007.
As one of the stumbling blocks to any new policy initiative lies in budgetary support for its implementation, the financial underpinning of such a new policy is vital, as you understand very well.
The Commission believes that the possibility of contributing to the actual resolution of protracted refugee situations through the strategic use of resettlement in the framework of regional protection programmes, combined with a strong financial underpinning of resettlement activities to be implemented in this context will provide – I am convinced – Member States with the incentive to participate in EU resettlement initiatives.
The Commission has noted that several Member States are currently considering setting up their own national resettlement programmes.
Moreover, there is no broad consensus among Member States on the need for a coordinated and systematic approach to addressing protection issues in regions of origin and an increasing acknowledgement of the fact that the targeted use of resettlement has the potential to deliver comprehensive and effective solutions to protracted refugee situations.
Finally, on the basis of the evaluation of the pilot regional protection programmes and taking into account the operational and logistical needs of managing resettlement on an EU scale, the Commission will examine the appropriateness of bringing forward a proposal for a more structured approach to resettlement at EU level, which might lead in the long term to the development of a permanent EU resettlement scheme, something I firmly hope to see. &#160;&#160; I wish to thank Commissioner Frattini for this gratifying decision.
As you know, I come from Sweden which is one of those countries that have been very committed to this issue.
It is certainly not easy, when it comes to problems directly related to our society, that represent the very essence of our society, to unite the whole of Parliament, with the various visions, ideologies and cultures represented in it, around a single text.
Before I discuss the details, however, I should like to hear Members' views on this report.
That is why we must strive to be as succinct as possible in legal texts and let the stakeholders, as well as the Member States, deal with the details of their implementation.
A number of Parliament's amendments are not acceptable to the Commission in their current form, because they are too detailed or too prescriptive, or because of their substance.
That is why I shall listen to how Parliament wants the Commission to present its basic proposal to the Council.
I have great confidence in what Parliament, in its wisdom, is going to say.
The Internet is a powerful tool, without borders, open to all, and it gives everyone access to a pool of knowledge and documents and an ability to exchange information that have never been equalled in the history of humanity.
There are currently about 260&#160;million pages on the web with pornographic content, and 470 paedophilia sites.
More than 1.5&#160;million images have been identified on the Net of children, very young children, being sexually exploited or abused.
The paedophilia business generates 20&#160;billion dollars a year worldwide.
It is time to protect children and the most vulnerable from all harmful content, whether legal or illegal.
This is all the more necessary now that new technologies are omnipresent and frequently freely available in schools, homes, cybercafés and, soon, on mobile telephones.
It is also up to them to organise information campaigns to alert public opinion to the dangers posed by the Internet.
Only the inclusion of an educational approach as part of schools’ curricula will enable improved use of the Internet.
However, this recommendation also seeks to make a right of reply available in all online media.
We therefore need to establish minimum principles at European level for exercising the right of reply for all new electronic communications media.
Thus, this recommendation will make it possible, thanks to the support of Parliament, which I would like to thank for the quality of its work, to improve Internet usage and will, I hope, be able to restore confidence.
Europe is currently experiencing a major crisis, a crisis in its institutions, its operation, its budget, its identity and its values.
It is a pity, though, that the legal basis chosen for this recommendation should be Article 157 of the Treaty, which is intended to ensure the competitiveness of European industry, instead of the more appropriate Article 153 on the protection of consumer interests.
It is also a pity that the legal form chosen should have been a recommendation that, as is well known, has no legally binding force.
In spite of this, it is very important that this report focuses on strengthening the protection of minors, through education programmes on information media designed to also enable adults, parents, teachers and trainers to teach minors to make proper use of the information media, especially the Internet.
Also extremely important is the commitment to fight the danger of child pornography, especially on the Internet, which is to be combated through informative and preventative advertising campaigns.
For this reason it is important for the Commission to agree to set up a European toll-free number to supply information on existing filtering systems that can also simplify the submission of complaints to the relevant authorities and the reporting of dangerous sites.
In addition, it could be a good idea to promote the adoption of a seal of quality for providers, so that users can identify whether or not a particular provider is regulated by a code of conduct.
Finally, another important point is the possibility of creating filters that will prevent at source the computer transmission of child pornography and other material that constitutes an assault on human dignity.
To conclude, I would like to thank the rapporteur and all the Members who have worked together to draft this text. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs de Sarnez’s outstanding report has brought Parliament face to face with a problem which is a long way from being resolved and which will take a long time to be resolved to a satisfactory degree, although the adoption of the proposed recommendation could prove a highly significant step in the right direction in this area.
The protection of minors and human dignity is an issue that raises fresh problems on a daily basis and increasingly requires both firm action and appropriate teaching in conjunction with a broad spectrum of the people directly involved in the issue.
What is needed is a sea change of mentality in terms of competitiveness and the production of content, with a view to rejecting the illegal and harmful products that are increasingly invading all audiovisual areas and what are referred to as online services.
This issue covers areas as diverse as the protection of human rights, the development of personality, family and school education, and the construction of citizenship; in other words, it goes to the heart of democracy and freedom.
It is also essential, however, that technology develops and improves so that the measures included in the recommendation can be made genuinely effective: from signalling systems to filtering, from classification to clear guidance on whether a particular practice is legal or otherwise.
Changes must also be made to national laws whereby all of these factors can be brought together and can run smoothly, in such a way that we can achieve at least some of the objectives.
I therefore feel, Mr President, that we should congratulate Mrs de Sarnez and vote in favour of the report before us. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the Lisbon Strategy resulted in the introduction of the European Union’s -Europe Action Plan, the aim of which is to speed up the achievement of the new-economy objectives, particularly those involving the Internet, by 2010.
The Action Plan also includes measures to be taken by Member States with a view to achieving Internet security.
Internet security means not only the use of smart cards and virus protection, but also protection from harmful and illegal content.
In Austria, for example, 80% of young people use the Internet and, of these, 50% go on-line nearly every day.
It has been established that there are currently around 260&#160;million pages with pornographic content circulating on the Internet.
The objective must be to achieve a uniform level of protection of minors and human dignity with a view to improving the competitiveness of audiovisual, information and on-line services in the long term.
I am well aware of how difficult it is to find the right balance between two requirements: firstly, that of ensuring that minors can benefit from the wealth of information that the web can provide, and secondly, the duty to prevent the danger that the Internet might become a tool for deviancy and miseducation for minors.
For this reason, the combating of the circulation of content that is harmful to human dignity and the civil and cultural development of minors is of fundamental importance.
In fact, if effective tools to protect the public interest are not rapidly identified and used, these new media and services may not be able to achieve their full potential from the social, cultural and economic viewpoints.
I agree with the rapporteur when she states that, in order to ensure the protection of minors in the utilisation of new information technologies, various actions must be taken simultaneously at three levels of responsibility: politicians, the industry itself and the educational system and parents.
I therefore support the proposals she has made, particularly those aimed at implementing information campaigns for citizens to alert public opinion to the dangers posed by an inappropriate use of the Internet, the promotion of training for the trainers, through initiatives specifically aimed at teachers and educators on the risks of the Internet for minors, and the distribution of information packs to pupils and parents.
It would also make it possible to give very useful data and news to the Member States that currently do not have such a reporting service, which fits in well within the strategy of protecting minors. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, like almost everything else in life, the Internet has its good and bad sides, not only for minors, but also for adults.
The problem facing us consists in striking a balance between freedom of information, which we all agree is a good thing, and the protection of minors.
We must not, however, go too far in doing this.
In the United States, there were plans to apply certain filters, but these blocked all the information on breast cancer, for example, because the word ‘breast’ was banned as pornographic and all the information on it was filtered out.
We intend to table an amendment to ensure that there are not too many strict filters, but that these are nevertheless effective and capable of protecting our children. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the boundaries between television, the Internet and telephone services are becoming increasingly blurred, and this presents us with new challenges.
The legislation currently in force at EU level is inadequate in the face of such challenges, for example when it comes to safeguarding the mental and moral development of the youngest media consumers.
The most problematic aspect of the Directive is the way in which Member States are absolved of responsibility for the content of programmes broadcast beyond their borders.
We are also overlooking the fact that provision is made in Article&#160;22 for a type of programme that should not be broadcast at all, in addition to programmes to which as a rule children should not have access.
It is a sad fact that we are incapable of resolving this simple conflict of standards in favour of common sense and the public good.
The De Sarnez report responds to the majority of these challenges and problems, which is why it deserves our support.
It should not go unmentioned, however, that the frequent references to the dead and buried draft Constitutional Treaty detract significantly from the report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on the fulsomeness of her work and my honourable friends for their speeches on the proposal for a recommendation by the European Parliament and the Council on the protection of minors and human dignity and the right of reply in relation to the competitiveness of the European audiovisual and information services industry being proposed through the De Sarnez report.
To close, I recommend the direct and uniform application in the Member States of terrestrial digital television broadcasting, which will allow parents to control programmes, especially the programmes to which millions of European citizens, including minors, have access as a result of rapid technological progress and, finally, the production of information broadcasts with a strategy against acts of violence against minors and support for victims in the form of psychological, moral and material assistance. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the development of new technologies in the information sector and the spread of the use of the Internet have brought very important benefits in the dissemination of knowledge and information and have facilitated communication between people to a very great extent.
Thus today there are millions of pages of pornography on the Internet and, as our rapporteur Mrs De Sarnez noted earlier, young people spend more time on the Internet than in front of the television.
I believe that these measures respond to a considerable degree to citizens' concerns.
Finally, as far as the right of reply is concerned, there need to be common principles in all the Member States so that the protection of people's dignity, honour and reputation can be safeguarded effectively.
If we continue to have different conditions for exercising the right of reply in the various Member States, there is a danger that people facing inaccurate accusations with ulterior motives will be unable to make appropriate use of this right. &#160;&#160; I welcome the reportand I am in favour of the protection of young people who are exposed to dangers in the media and in particular on the Internet which their parents and teachers may not be fully aware of.
On the other hand, all those who make their living from the media or from young people must take responsibility for their actions.
I wonder whether it is only violent contents that actually bring profits when there are so many important things in life that could be communicated to young people in an interesting and informative way, and which at the same time could contribute to a better society and to better relations between people. &#160;&#160; I welcome the speaker with such a carefully prepared document, and I believe the document will be instrumental in helping us protect our children from harmful content disseminated through the mass media, including the Internet.
I would like to point out that the Internet, and the Internet cafes in particular, are the least controlled of all information media.
The Lithuanian authorities have been quite successful in managing locally produced Internet sites, and we do not have any problems in this respect.
I believe, and I am addressing this to you, Mrs Reding, that we should make it possible for each of these issues to be the subject of a specific recommendation.
When we refer to paedophilia, we forget that it is children, minors, who are the object of this type of illicit information and I believe this report should make some reference to that point. &#160;&#160; – Today we are considering a truly important issue that concerns every family and every one of us: the protection of minors, our children and grandchildren, from harmful pornographic, violent and drug-related Internet material.
I am convinced that it is absolutely necessary to harmonise the laws of the European Union Member States on the protection of under-aged persons from the harmful impact of the Internet.
I welcome the proposal to arrange courses in schools for children and parents on the possible dangers created by the Internet and the means of protection against such dangers, as well as the proposal to open free telephone lines for people to call and report on Internet sites harmful for children.
In contrast, on the worldwide web of the Internet, these options are limited.
It is Internet users that, using our hotlines, using our portals, bring our attention to the existence of negative content.
Most of our information on this subject therefore comes from teachers, from parents, from ordinary Internet users and that is one of the new assets for our politicians: we have communities of Internet users who operate by trying to control negative content.
We therefore really need to put in the investment to increase the effectiveness of filters.
Some Members, and I can well understand this, are wondering why we have not gone for more restrictive legislation, why we prefer ‘light’ to ‘heavy’ legislation.
First of all, the recommendation of 1998 is still valid.
This is already a partial response to another question that was asked: why do we not confine ourselves to revising the ‘Television Without Frontiers’ Directive in the future?
In relation to this right, our Member States – because this subject, too, comes under the subsidiarity principle – have had good experiences with coregulation.
That said, Mr&#160;President, I must stress that the main aim of all the actions that will be taken thanks to Safer Internet, thanks to ‘Television Without Frontiers’ which will become ‘Audiovisual Content Without Frontiers’, thanks to all the regulations, both light and not so light, that we are going to apply, is and remains the protection of our young people.
I would therefore like to say to the honourable Members today that I was very pleased to hear from all sides that, in addition to paedophilia, which is a crime, in addition to pornography, which is still banned in our various countries, by various cultural methods, it is also, and above all, violence that causes a problem.
In the five years that I have now been responsible for media matters, I have said this time and again: it is not only pornography, but also violence that is very damaging to our children.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for recognising this fact and for helping to go down this route, because, at present, violence is not recognised in national or international legislation as being as damaging as pornography.
However, I think, Mr&#160;President, that what Parliament really wants to hear is what the Commission intends to do with Parliament’s amendments on which various speakers have commented this evening.
We cannot make commitments based on a text that we may wish for with all our might, but that is not yet available to us.
With regard to Amendment&#160;13, you will be aware that the Commission has proposed dates for the transition from analogue to digital, but this aspect has no place in the recommendation as such.
In addition, the dates are some way off, as the transition is scheduled for 2010 and the analogue switch-off for 2012.
As regards Amendment&#160;27, which aims to reduce food advertising specifically targeted at children, although I agree with the principle, it comes under the subsidiarity principle and I must say that self-regulation of the industry is working quite well at the moment.
What is needed, from the point of view of Parliament, from the point of view of the Commission and from the point of view of the Member States, is to apply pressure for this self-regulation to be truly effective in all aspects.
As for Amendment&#160;32, concerning discrimination created by false and stereotyped images, we must, as some of you have already said, strike a balance between the protection of children and freedom of expression.
The fact that we are implementing the best methods for achieving these results seems to me to be an element of that that the Commissioners, and also the MEPs, know so well because they are in contact with the national and regional officials who will have to put into practice a large proportion of what we have decided today.
Thank you to the rapporteurs and thank you for your very committed speeches this evening, which I welcome on behalf of our European society. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report (A6-0228/2005) by Mr&#160;Becsey, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, 1.
on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 77/388/EEC with a view to simplifying value added tax obligations (COM(2004)0728 – C6-0024/2005 – 2004/0261(CNS)); 2.
Let me say a few words about the Commission's proposal.
In the communication on the VAT strategy presented in 2003, the simplification of tax obligations was identified as one of the key areas for future work.
In particular, a proposal for a directive on this issue was scheduled for 2004.
The objective of simplifying business obligations in the field of VAT is in line with the request made by the European Council of 25 and 26&#160;March 2004 to identify areas for simplification.
As Mr Becsey rightly says in his report, cross-border businesses need to comply with the tax rules of every Member State in which they undertake their activities.
Those burdens obstruct the smooth functioning of the European single market.
One of the ways of attaining the Lisbon agenda objectives, in particular that of promoting economic growth, is to reduce cross-border administrative burdens and compliance costs in order to facilitate Community-wide activities by businesses.
The Commission's proposal fully meets the objective of reducing such administrative burdens.
The Commission proposes the establishment of an optional one-stop system, whereby taxable persons can fulfil their VAT obligations in the Member State of establishment.
Finally, it will provide for the exchange of information between Member States, which will be facilitated by the electronic system for the exchange of information.
The United Kingdom Presidency has indicated that it will give these proposals a high priority, and discussion on this proposal commenced in the Council during July.
This package of proposals could certainly be a major step towards building a unified internal market.
With the introduction of this scheme – which I hope will be possible in early 2007 – small traders for whom it has not been worthwhile employing or contracting a tax advisor to deal with their value-added tax affairs in other Member States, will be able to file their VAT returns without a tax advisor.
A positive aspect of the proposal is that everyone will be able to deal with these matters in their own language and with the help of their home authorities, and will be able to receive the VAT owed to them or make VAT payments directly.
Another advantage for businesses is that the deadline for refunding value-added tax can been shortened.
In other words, it does not want to open up debate as regards the fundamental issue of whether VAT should be paid according to the place of origin of the supplier or goods, or according to the place of consumption, as is current practice.
I hope that in the Council the Member States too will be principled enough to forgo tying this positive initiative to such a fundamental philosophical debate.
The other advantage of the proposal is that it opens up a path for progress on a number of issues on the basis of common principles, and this progress will evolve precisely as a result of the one-stop system.
A case in point is the first common list of exclusions from VAT deduction.
This would make any items that are excluded in all Member States – primarily luxury consumption items – subject to common regulations.
Up to a threshold of EUR 150 000, businesses would be able to choose whether to pay VAT on the revenue from distance selling in the country of consumption or the country of establishment.
The electronic system – use of which will incidentally be optional for the Member State and the business concerned – will also help us to set a uniform maximum VAT-exemption threshold for small businesses.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs also adopted my suggestion to set a minimum VAT-exemption threshold to be applied for the first three years of activity of a newly established business.
Another important advance is the proposal to examine how to build a uniform electronic system permitting cooperation among national tax administrations, eliminating abuses and speeding up inspections.
In the interests of legal certainty, the time permitted for the tax administration to ask further questions or request additional information prior to making a refund should be made even shorter, since this would help to enhance businesses’ liquidity.
In order to make the system more business-friendly, I have proposed that the whole of the one-stop scheme and the modifications now being implemented in connection with it should be subject to a thorough review by the Commission four years after its adoption, to analyse experience so far with the scheme and propose any modifications deemed necessary.
I deeply regret that all these important issues, the previous presentation and others, including one on paediatrics, are being considered so late at night, because the issues addressed here concern everyone.
First of all, companies should be allowed to prepare their documents in the language of their home country, since it is difficult to imagine that a small company could prepare documents in 21 languages as we do in Parliament.
Second, it is necessary to help small and medium-sized enterprises to avoid losses in connection with currency fluctuations, since not all States have all currencies, and moreover, the exchange rate may fluctuate during the period while the VAT is being refunded, thus causing significant losses to small and medium-sized enterprises.
I would like to thank Mr Becsey for his report and all the speakers for their interventions.
My thanks also go to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for their contribution to our joint work.
In the case of some of the proposed amendments, I am unable to accept them because they refer to periods of time or deadlines that are too long in view of the capabilities of the electronic tax declaration system.
I would particularly like to draw attention to Amendment 9, proposing a minimum VAT exemption threshold of EUR 50&#160;000 for small and medium enterprises.
As regards the assumption underlying Amendment 10, that the directive could have adverse budgetary implications for Member States and businesses, it is the Commission’s opinion that this danger does not exist, since the proposal does not change the regulations on taxation, it merely simplifies them.
I would like to emphasise particularly the importance of ensuring the rapid entry into force of this proposal: as Mr Becsey stated in his report and other speakers, too, have pointed out, this directive would greatly simplify the activities of cross-border businesses, enhance competitiveness, and help to boost growth and create jobs.
I sincerely hope that the plenary sitting of the European Parliament this week will adopt the Commission’s proposal.
I am also hopeful that the decision of the European Parliament will have a favourable influence on the Council’s position. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; The best tax systems are those in which the rules are well understood, simple and unchanging.
While the current proposals purport to simplify, particularly for small businesses, the main drive has always been rather to harmonise - to prevent so-called 'harmful tax competition', to achieve a uniform minimum rate for VAT, ending derogations such as the zero-rated items we have in the UK.
This is a very important proposal, which will improve child health in Europe and spare many families the suffering which the premature death of a child brings.
Over 50% of the medicinal products used on children in the European Union today are neither tested on children nor authorised for paediatric use.
The Commission’s proposal tackles this aspect of public health head-on.
The proposal not only addresses this important aspect of public health, but also aims to stimulate innovation and competition and contribute towards growth and employment in the European Union.
I should like to extend my thanks and congratulations to Mrs&#160;Grossetête, the rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, for her work and the effort she put in to complete this report.
I also wish to thank Mrs&#160;Toia for drafting the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, and all the members of both committees for their support for the proposal.
I am talking about the Commission’s proposal for a fixed six-month extension of the Supplementary Protection Certificate for the products concerned here.
Let me start by explaining why we have given preference to a fixed over a variable extension of the Supplementary Protection Certificate.
A fixed extension is simple to use and can be foreseen exactly.
A provision to this effect would be highly impracticable, as it would require a precise economic analysis for each medicinal product.
Secondly, I should like to explain the Commission’s reasons for proposing a six-month extension of the Supplementary Protection Certificate.
Based on our impact assessment, which was very thorough, we believe that this period strikes a balance between the aims of the proposal on the one hand, and the costs and benefits to public health, industry and public health service finances on the other.
The Commission can support in principle the amendment advocating a review of the regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use, in order to enable a proper assessment of its impact, particularly the financial impact of bonuses and incentives.
We must ensure that any review carried out also takes into account the desired benefits to public health of this regulation.
The proposal for a regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use is important from the points of view of child health, innovation and competitiveness.
Commissioner, you explained it very well: it seems inconceivable that, today, our children cannot get treatment adapted to their needs.
That is the aim of this regulation and I would like to thank all of my fellow Members who have participated in the work.
They aim in particular to improve the readability of the actions of the Paediatric Committee, which will be set up within the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, to avoid additional clinical trials being performed on children when they are not necessary, to promote the transparency of the instruments, to reduce administrative delays, to strengthen pharmacovigilance, to introduce an obligation to perform paediatric research for any new medicinal product intended for adults, without this system delaying the placing on the market of innovative medicinal products, to call on the Paediatric Committee to draw up an inventory of therapeutic needs of children, and finally, to create a European research fund intended to finance research on medicines which are not patent-protected but which could be of great benefit to children.
However, the main point in this text is still that connected with the incentive.
I have put a great deal of work into this issue.
Mr&#160;Maaten, we are always asking the European Parliament to look for better solutions by means of benchmarking.
Research is, by definition, risky and if the European Union wants, as you all hope, to develop this strategic sector, we cannot create a watered-down system or institute vague measures.
Some of my fellow Members have drawn up a proposal based on proportional rewards.
However, this system imposes too many restrictions.
I have asked my fellow Members some important questions, questions relating to public health.
Moreover, while waiting for information that never comes from the authors of these amendments, I have been wondering about the reasons for this long silence.
Each Member State sets its own price and, as we know, they vary considerably.
With regard to the impact of this measure on the public health budgets of our countries, a study presented to the Council concludes that, with a fixed six-month period, the increase in health spending would be infinitesimal, between 0.7 and 1%.
Finally, I wanted to include in the amendments a review clause for the incentive.
With this text, we have the opportunity to move from words to actions.
Let us make no mistake.
This regulation can show our fellow citizens just how useful it is.
No Member State on its own can support the research policy with regard to the pharmaceutical industry.
From this point of view, we are all aware that the current situation in Europe is testimony to a very inferior level of development.
I would therefore like to call on Mrs Grossetête and the other Members who are in favour of different solutions not to demonise our proposal but to try to understand that each of us, representing only ourselves and our own ideas, has put forward what we each believe to be the most appropriate solution for paediatric medicines, and thus child health.
In any case, regardless of the position that this Parliament adopts, I ask the Commissioner to agree with this proposal, by giving a positive opinion to enable an assessment mechanism to be created which, after a certain period, will enable us to understand what the best proposal is in the light of the facts.
This is the most important point, because our children, the children of Europe, have the right to see their needs and their requirements met. &#160;&#160; .
That may do no harm, it may do no good or it may even harm the child, because it may not be correct for it to have the dose at all, or it should have more or less than that.
Therefore I very much welcome both the Commission's proposal and the rapporteur's report.
That is what we want and what our children need.
The rapporteur has mentioned the example of the United States.
The Commission proposed six months; the Council – or 22 Member States in the Council – proposed six months; the rapporteur proposed six months; the committee agreed six months.
Therefore, the aim of my amendment to Article 36 was to make clear that we should not have double rewards for the same paediatric formulation.
However, when I hear, on the one side, companies saying that it is going too far and, on the other side, generics saying that it is not going far enough, perhaps we have got it right.
The report as a whole and the Commission's proposal are good and will help the two million children who have health problems now and could be helped through this measure in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, although the success of this legislation has been mentioned, it is something that should be emphasised again and again.
I shall tell you in a minute why I find the pedantry, and sometimes even the simplicity, of this debate distasteful.
We have tabled amendments in committee – I have even tabled them myself – stating the need for this legislation to enter into force more quickly, the reason being that we have waited so long for it, on behalf of the children in the European Union.
This must be given a proper basis in law, and the proper place for it is in the Seventh Framework Research Programme.
I have said that this is a great success, and so I regret that this success is not being given due emphasis in this debate.
It is interesting that there has been no discussion of the ten-year extension of data protection for medicinal products whose patent protection has expired: ‘PUMA’, as it is known.
Yet a dispute of which I have seldom seen the like in this House has developed about a six-month period to be given to those pharmaceutical manufacturers engaged in research who still have a patent, or are applying for one.
They could not understand this discussion, some of which they followed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
If what Commissioner&#160;Verheugen said does happen, and there is an incentive to procure more medicinal products more quickly, it will be marvellous; it will be exactly what we want.
I am a relatively long-standing Member of this House, and do not want to see it split into two, with the countries and representatives of countries which have no research-oriented pharmaceutical industry but only a generics industry objecting that six months is too long, and others saying the opposite.
It is also a good example of what Europe can mean to the citizen, exactly at a time when many citizens appear to be in doubt about this, and deserves all our support for that reason.
The regulation is so important because at present, children are all too often prescribed medicines that have not been developed for children or tested on them, and so the positive or negative effects that the use of these medicines may have on a child are often not known, with all the consequences that this entails.
Another good example that has been mentioned before is the creation of a children’s medicine committee that will be responsible for the assessment and approval of plans for paediatric research.
Similarly, the rapporteur’s proposal in connection with the investigation programme for paediatric research, MICE, for funding research into the paediatric use of medicines that are not protected by a patent or additional protection certificate, will considerably stimulate the production of children’s medicines.
In principle, I think that such a patent extension should be as short as possible, for in the final analysis, it is the user, or the citizen, who picks up the tab.
A patent is a temporary monopoly that is granted to promote innovation, but in this proposal, research is a requirement and the patent a way of recovering costs, and that is what sets us apart from the United States.
We have decided in favour of five months while the rapporteur made a passionate plea for six.
I myself have changed my mind, first from a flexible period to four months, and I have now proposed five months.
We have re-tabled an amendment to extend patent protection to just four months, and I should once more like to ask all my fellow Members to support this amendment.
These medicinal products must have a therapeutic benefit.
We should not, however, allow this to give rise to an industry wish list; the focus must be on the interests of the children. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Grossetête for her work.
We needed to establish the tasks of the Paediatric Committee more clearly, clarify the system and ensure monitoring of paediatric investigation plans, while at the same time giving the committee the important job of identifying special needs in the paediatric sector.
It is important in my opinion – and I happen to be a doctor – that the six-month extension to which producers of medicinal products for paediatric use are entitled should be reduced, given that their products are already protected by pharmaceutical patents.
The legislation must clearly state that the new additional protection, which compensates for paediatric trials, will not be granted again through any other system for protecting the market from competition.
Amendment 75 aims to clarify this and I call on you to vote for it.
The objective of the report by the European Parliament must be to establish real dialogue between the interested parties.
I can also support the majority of the amendments that have been adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
The extra costs involved in research that is necessary to obtain approval for paediatric use are relatively low, but that is not the case for all medicines.
That is also the thrust of the amendments tabled by our group.
We would like to see a three-month extension put in place by way of standard, and provide for an additional three-month extension for those medicines where this proves too short.
It would be irresponsible on our part to apply the six-month extension to all products.
After all, health insurance is expensive enough as it is.
I would therefore call on everyone’s support for Amendment 89 tabled by Mrs Breyer, Mrs McAvan and Mrs Corbey or Amendments 91 to 93 tabled by my group. &#160;&#160; Like my forespeakers, I&#160;would like to thank rapporteur Mrs Grossetête for her work on this important document.
For, we know that medications often have side effects that are well tolerated by adults, while they may lead to serious health complications in a&#160;child.
But, what bothers me more, is that the discussion about this directive in Parliament concentrated on whether patent protection should last six months, three plus three or four plus two.
If, as a&#160;by-product, we have a&#160;happy pharmaceutical company, then we have achieved what we have intended and had to do. &#160;&#160; Today we have the opportunity and the responsibility to decide about the health of our children.
As a&#160;doctor I&#160;am in favour of and strongly support the view that research into paediatric medicines must always be compulsory, safe, highly professional and subject to constant checks, if for nothing else, because there is still a shortage of medicines for children, and because the development of new substances must go ahead.
Children have their own specific characteristics, completely different metabolism, and different susceptibility to medicines, as Dr Belohorská said just before me.
The European Union must set out binding regulations for all Member States that will not harm the health of children, but that will ensure the availability of high-quality children’s medicines within optimum timescales.
In finishing, Mr President, I&#160;would like to voice my support for rapporteur Françoise Grossetête’s idea to set up the MICE (Medicines Investigation for the Children of Europe) agency.
In this way we will be able to ensure that all children in the European Union will have the same access to first-class medicines, and I call upon you to take that responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been wanting and waiting for this text on which we are going to vote for a long time, and we are all very happy to know that it will soon enable our children to be better cared for.
Tomorrow, we will have the opportunity to improve this proposal for a regulation so that it best serves the interests of children and public health, and we will improve it by adopting those amendments focussing on research into and the placing on the market of medicinal products with the greatest added value, providing a real therapeutic benefit; indeed, how can we achieve the objective of limiting clinical trials on children without limiting the number of medicinal products placed on the market?
We will also be able to improve the text tomorrow by adopting the amendments that propose greater transparency for pharmacovigilance data and their accessibility to the public.
The financial issue is also important for the stability of our social security systems and the guarantee of access to healthcare for all.
That is why we will have other meetings and we will really see what we can do for the health of European children. &#160;&#160; I believe we need to establish a system of appropriate rewards for the holders of patents on medicines who have to carry out compulsory clinical trials for the use of such medicines in paediatrics.
However we must take steps to prevent the accumulation of rewards under this regulation and other areas of European legislation.
The entry of producers of generic medicines into the market increases competition, reduces the cost of drugs and reduces the strain on health budgets.
If such a goal is to be reached and the producers of original medical products are to be reimbursed for the true additional costs they incur as a result of clinical trials, it makes sense for European legislation to be based on verified information regarding these costs.
The unjustified short-term extension of the market monopoly on drugs produces large profits and places unjustifiable new burdens on health resources. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, children must have safe medicines, adapted to their needs.
They can tolerate a 1% increase in costs much better than already depleted public budgets.
We must not transfer even more money to these companies.
If this is unacceptable, Parliament will show that it is more attentive to the pharmaceutical companies’ lobbyists than to the needs of children. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the comments made by previous speakers, who said that the draft regulation that has been submitted to the House is not only of great significance, but also urgently needed, and that it should provide the greatest possible benefits to the youngest citizens of the European Union.
As a doctor, I believe that the draft’s most important feature is its attempt to afford greater protection to child patients, in view of the fact that they constitute a particularly vulnerable group of patients.
Further welcome developments include backing for information on medicines being as widely available as possible, as well as provisions guaranteeing greater protection for child patients in clinical research.
Similarly, I am delighted that the MICE programme has been set up for independent research into certain medicines.
Turning to the paragraph in Article 36 that has provoked such debate, it is my opinion that a three-month extension of patent protection is adequate for the time being.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work on this dossier, which has been far from easy.
It is my firm belief that there will be a positive outcome to the vote on this draft regulation, which will bring benefits in social, health and also ethical terms. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are about to vote on a report on regulations on paediatric medicines.
In the West, we should have the healthiest children in the history of the world.
It is an expression of our concern about the health of children in Europe, and also, in the long term, of children in non-European countries.
Nevertheless, it should not be forgotten that the negative financial impact of the regulation will be greater for some countries than for others.
As former Commissioner for Enlargement, Mr&#160;Verheugen is probably better acquainted than anyone with the major financial problems facing the health service sector in Poland.
As Mrs&#160;Roth-Behrendt concluded, however, the quality of children’s health care is more important than the amount of money saved. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, a word of thanks to our rapporteur, Mrs Grossetête, for her enthusiasm and perseverance with which she has fought for the health of all children in the European Union is certainly in order.
Moreover, we should not overlook the fact that they employ thousands of people in the process.
A fixed six-month extension of the supplementary protection certificate is preferable for all kinds of reasons, but transparency and sound agreements are key words in this respect.
We must consider the potential implications of a patent extension for all children in the world.
In Belgium, for example, it was Dr Janssens who made Sporanox, his antifungal, available to the developing countries, but now that Janssens Farmaceutica has been taken over, it will be interesting to see whether the new owners will adopt the same line.
In addition to attention to research, it goes without saying that the government must also continue to guarantee accessibility to medicines.
The pharmaceutical industry can, and must, therefore be stimulated in the area of research, but should, at the same time, consider the people who have to pay for those medicines.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work on this regulation, which will allow us to send a positive message to our voters.
It will demonstrate that Parliament supports the development of paediatric medicines, and that we attach a great deal of importance to the treatment our children receive and to their health.
Secondly, I believe that it is a mistake to waive the requirement for a paediatric medicine to be registered in all Member States before additional patent protection may be obtained.
Paediatric medicines should be registered and available in all Member States, and not merely in a few.
This is unfair in social terms, unjustified in legal terms and contrary to the principle of equality.
Thirdly, I have serious doubts regarding the proposal to extend patent protection for paediatric medicines, as every new medicine is in any case protected by a patent, regardless of whether it is used to treat children, women or elderly people.
There can be no doubt that extending patent protection would limit access to the market for generic medicines.
Every mother would pay any price to protect the health of her child, but the question I would ask is why mothers should pay more, given that Parliament could adopt amendments that make it possible for them to pay only as much as is necessary. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it has been a shameful stigma on our 21st century civilisation that, to this day, many of the medicines we use to treat our children are untested for paediatric use and that a large number of medicines that could be of lifesaving benefit to children are not used because they never underwent paediatric testing.
In a world in which it seems, perhaps, inevitable that economic profit is, to a great extent, the cornerstone of our existence, the Commission has finally brought before us a remedial proposal based mainly on financial terms and mores.
This piece of legislation, despite its ideological shortcomings, will help develop more and safer drugs for children.
It is therefore an important step forward and deserves our full support, although its application will have to be monitored closely, especially with regard to the proper ethical scrutiny of paediatric clinical trials. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the approval of this regulation represents an important advance: today the majority of European minors take medicines whose effectiveness and safety has not been documented in children and adolescents, who are therefore exposed to greater risks than adults are.
However, the implementation of the regulation will depend on the activities and responsibilities of the scientific committee which, while working within the EMEA, must retain its independence from the pharmaceutical industry in the interests of children.
The proposed control activities of this committee should be made public, to enable all citizens to be aware and informed of what it is doing to improve their health.
The implementation of the register of clinical and pharmacological experiments involving children and the creation of a European paediatric form, to be regularly updated, will also be important.
In addition, in order to set up the MICE programme, envisaged by the regulation, it will be necessary to clarify the financing methods and how they interact with the EU’s framework programmes.
The prolongation of a patent by six months is yet another gift to the pharmaceutical multinationals, in total disregard of the health of children and running counter to the objectives of this very regulation.
I support the proposal for a uniform extension of patent protection.
Mrs&#160;Grossetête, and now Commissioner&#160;Verheugen as well, have convinced me that this is the right, simple, and practicable way to go.
We have included a revision clause entitling us to make improvements for the eventuality that the profits are as exorbitant as we suspect they will be.
These two things cannot be weighed against each other. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, it is an uncontested fact that public health is one of the most valuable social commodities.
After congratulating my honourable friend, Mrs&#160;Grossetête, I should like to draw the House's attention not only to the basic outlines, but also to the details relating to public health, access to quality services and the creation of reliable control mechanisms.
Special attention needs to be given to the question of the production, testing and marketing of medicinal products, mainly due to the obvious need for greater transparency, given that direct and indirect financial interests attach to the production and marketing of these products and a whole set of medical practices and actions depend, either at research level or at application level, on their use.
Creating a strong system of risk management, creating a list which will be given to all health agencies, companies and workers involved and providing the facility for informing patients about the treatment protocol to which they are to submit and its anticipated therapeutic value constitute, in conjunction with the foregoing, a strong system of protection and improvement.
There are no scales for weighing the health of children against financial interests. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like, in my turn, to thank Mrs&#160;Grossetête for having adopted the same philosophy as was applied to rare diseases: mobilisation against the injustice suffered by some patients, in this case children.
Clearly, this regulation is urgently needed: research and development are expensive and we must support the efforts that will be required of the pharmaceutical firms, and thus also support the fixed period of six months during which they will not be subject to competition from the sector.
At the same time, we must promote lower-cost paediatric research, the clause regarding review in six years, the MICE programme for paediatric research and, as is vital when children are involved, measures aimed at avoiding the unnecessary duplication of studies that meet this requirement.
It is this delicate balance that we need to maintain in our vote tomorrow, a balance that meets the expectations of paediatricians, families and the millions of young patients in Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Grossetête, for her excellent work.
I do think, though, that the Commission deserves criticism for being so tardy in presenting this proposal on medicinal products for paediatric use; after all, 100&#160;million children in the EU are affected.
The first is that the national markets for paediatric medicinal products are much too small to be of interest to pharmaceutical companies; only the Community market is large enough to be significant.
Secondly, clinical trials on children should and must be avoided as far as possible.
Thirdly, the compulsory investigation of the potential effects of medicinal products on children which is provided for under the proposal must not impede the development of new medicinal products for adults.
It follows that the Paediatric Committee, which is envisaged as forming part of the EMEA in London, has to assume the important role of resolving these issues quickly for the whole of the EU.
This is the only way of better managing the organisation of the ethical and financial problems which paediatric medicinal products present.
We need to create a harmonised, functional European market in this field, so that we are finally able to give our children the medicines that they deserve, namely the best. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is really important that children should be prescribed the right medicines in the correct dosage and in the right form.
The Commission’s proposal is of major significance to children, parents and industry alike.
As far as I am concerned, this compensation could even be generous, but a six-month extension of the patent protection is in many cases extremely big-hearted.
According to a well-known British innovative company, research into paediatric indications generally costs some EUR 8 million.
The returns of a six-month patent extension are a multiple of this, some EUR 200 to 300 million, and sums in excess of this have been mentioned for blockbusters.
I would therefore call for proportionality: three months, but with the possibility of adding another three months if the turnover is below EUR&#160;100 million.
Along with Mrs McAvan, I tabled these amendments that have been signed by 44 Members from Belgium, Estonia, France, Portugal, Greece Poland, Hungary, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands.
In our view, the reward should be proportionate to the costs incurred.
It is always good to remind ourselves of who ends up paying for this: the people taking the medicines and the insured.
The cost of health insurance is rising; medicines account for some 10% of total public health outgoings.
Of course the pharmaceutical industry will lobby very energetically in favour of six months.
Anything else, they say, would be bureaucratic and complex, but there is nothing bureaucratic about providing turnover figures that are already known anyway.
Quite the reverse: real innovation is possible if we insist on added therapeutic value, and that is why I back the amendments tabled by Mrs Ferreira and the Group of the Greens. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the regulation on the safety of medicinal products for paediatric use is a necessary and sensible alternative that puts an end to a long period of uncertainty surrounding medicinal products in the paediatric sector.
The Commission’s proposal was well-balanced and was based on impact assessments.
A six-month extension of patent protection as an incentive for pharmaceutical manufacturers is reasonable.
This period is based on the results of the impact study and is a clear, fair basis for calculation for all manufacturers.
In addition, the duration of a patent must never be dependent on a product’s sales figures.
The international competitive situation of the research-oriented pharmaceutical industry demands that we take a look at Europe’s attractiveness as a research destination.
This is another reason why I see no material arguments in favour of the reduction in the fixed six-month period that is still under discussion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am not a paediatrician nor am I a pharmaceutical industry expert but I have some expertise in that we have two small children: Oliver, who is three and a half years old, and Emilie, who is eighteen months.
I support the proposed regulation and I also support Mrs&#160;Grossetête’s excellent report, and I wish to raise three brief points with regard to it.
In my opinion, this proposal for a regulation is an incentive for further research, and should be supported.
My second remark is that the six month supplementary protection proposed by the Commission and Françoise Grossetête is a good thing, as at present we rely too much on the use of medicines intended for adults as medication directly adapted for children.
My last point is that I think it is ultimately a question of whether we conduct clinical research or learn through our mistakes when children have received the wrong drugs.
I am sure that on many issues both sides have the right arguments, as both the innovative and generic industries have an important role in the medicine sector.
Whilst I understand the importance of innovation, as a Socialist and Hungarian MEP I think that the social aspect should take priority.
The rapporteur has to understand that the extra price of the extension period would be paid by the most vulnerable strata of society, the poor and their children.
Hungarian Socialists support all the amendments by Mrs Corbey and Mrs McAvan, which many of us have signed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is beyond dispute that this proposal for a directive contains valid points, but, as other Members have said, I think that the price we are paying is too high.
I have to tell Mrs Grossetête that the difference between us and the United States is that we boast a sound social security system that should also balance its books.
Those of you in this House who argue in favour of six months protection are also those who very often caution in their own countries that the social security budget must be kept under control, and that cuts must be made.
That is why I will continue to support the amendments tabled by Mrs Corbey. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a child is not a small adult.
In many areas of society children receive the attention they are due, but I am seriously amazed that there are not yet enough medicines available tested and intended specifically for children.
However, fewer than 30% of the medications registered in Finland, for example, include dosage instructions for children of all ages.
I will be happy to pay the price of complying with a six-month term, so that my grandchildren can receive better medications and treatment for their illnesses than they do now. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank all the speakers for their overall support.
There does seem to be a broad consensus in the House that something needs to be done in the field of medicinal products for paediatric use.
I have listened very closely and should like to start by dealing with the question posed by many Members; that is, whether the Commission can guarantee that the funding required to ensure the necessary scientific and research-policy safeguards for this legislative proposal will be made available within the Seventh Framework Research Programme.
The Seventh Framework Research Programme makes clear reference to child health, and I am assuming that the Commission will be deciding on the relevant programmes in just a few weeks, as planned.
It may come as a surprise to hear this from the person responsible for enterprise and industry in Europe, but I should like to reiterate categorically that what interests me here is neither the interests of enterprises nor those of industry, nor even the interests of national health authorities; my one and only concern is the interests of the children to whom this proposal relates.
I have been dismayed to hear a number of arguments here this evening that clearly betray support for cold economic interests.
It may sadden you to hear that the European pharmaceutical industry needs to make a profit, but that is just the way it is, and neither I nor anyone else in this House can change that.
We are creating such incentives, and for that reason I once again urge you most strongly to lend your support – not in the interests of industry, the health sector or the authorities, but solely in the interests of the children and their parents. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12&#160;noon.
The Commission can accept the following amendments: 4, 5, 7, 10, 15 (1st part), 17, 18 (1st part), 19 (Art 2b, 1st part), 22 (1st part), 33, 34, 35, 39, 40 (deadline of 60 days, and 'or the request for a deferral or waiver'), 44 (1st part), 45, 46 (2nd part), 58, 62, 77, 80.
The Commission can accept the following amendments in principle: 1, 2, 6 (1st part), 6 (3rd part), 8, 9, 19 (Art 2b, 2nd part [amp] Art 2c, 1st part), 20, 21, 22 (2nd part), 26, 27, 28, 31, 42, 43 (1st part [amp] 2nd part), 50, 52 (2nd part, re data protection), 55, 56, 57, 63, 64, 66, 67, 69, 76, 79.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 3, 6 (2nd part), 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 (2nd [amp] 3rd part), 16, 18 (2nd part), 19 (no to moving Articles), 19 (Art 2a, Art 2c 2nd part [amp] Art 2d), 23, 24, 25, 29, 30, 32, 36, 37, 38, 40 (last part), 41, 43 (3rd part), 44 (2nd part), 46 (1st [amp] 3rd parts), 47, 48, 49, 51, 52 (1st part, re patents), 53, 54, 59, 60, 61, 65, 68, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 78, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 91, 92, 93.
