In the act declaring the Republic of Latvia in 1918 it is written that: 'All citizens regardless of their ethnic origin are called on to give their assistance, for all human rights shall be guaranteed in Latvia.
We have a common history, but our fates have been diverse.
That is why I should like to thank the European Parliament for the declaration adopted on 22 September last year to proclaim 23 August as the European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism.
With our accession to the European Union, Latvia signalled its determination for its own future, its determination to found its future on a European identity and on our common values: freedom and democracy, accountability, the rule of law and human rights, equality, tolerance and prosperity.
Latvia now has at its disposal new political and economic instruments, but it must be noted that our nation's responsibility for the common future of Europe, a responsibility before all the people of Europe, has also significantly increased.
What we can see from this global crisis, however, is that our financial systems and our economies are suffering from that market, and most important of all, real people are suffering from the crisis.
In this situation, a complex approach at national, European and global level is what is needed.
The most difficult challenge will be to strike precisely this balance.
This policy is not just a matter of the European Union's relations with particular states, that is, with those states with which it shares a land or maritime border.
Every European nation has its own experience of history and its own opportunities to work on our common project for the benefit of the European Union.
Even quite recently, European Union Member States regarded energy as an issue to be resolved at the national and not at the European Union level.
On other issues - diversification of energy sources at European level and creation of a single energy market - we are right at the beginning of our journey.
It is only with coherent, far-sighted and, most important of all, common action by the European Union that we can hope not to be the losers in this global competitive struggle.
Only thus can we attain the goal for which the people of our nations have cast their votes, in support of our participation in the European Union.
The European Parliament has already shown that it has a broad vision of the future of the European Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, until 2004, Latvia's goal was membership of the European Union.
Since that time, we have shaped Latvia's goals in the context of Europe's goals.
We can no longer consider and perceive ourselves separately from Europe.
The European Union was built and must be strengthened on a base of common values.
One of them will be the European Union.
Moreover, the European Union will still be open to all those Europeans who accept its values.
Ladies and gentlemen, 2015 is not far away; only six years stand between us.
It is our responsibility.
As a result, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia were able to become members of the European Union on 1 May 2004.
