Presentation by the Council of the draft general budget - Budget 2008 (DE) The next item on the agenda is the presentation by the Council of the draft general budget for 2008.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Presidency of the Council, the draft general budget of the European Communities for the financial year 2008, adopted by the Council on 13 July 2007.
I should like, first of all, to record the excellent and constructive atmosphere that prevailed during the meetings preceding the first reading of the 2008 budget by the Council.
Before presenting the draft budget for 2008 in more detail, I should like to record the guiding principles behind the Council's decision.
The draft budget for 2008 amounts to EUR 128 000 million in commitment appropriations and EUR 119 000 million in payment appropriations.
Although the Council intends to limit increases under this sub-heading in comparison with the 2007 budget, I should point out that the Council will continue to provide for a very significant increase in the Research budget, i.e. 7.75% in commitments and 45% in payments, in the light of the rate of execution in previous years and the capacities for absorption.
As regards sub-heading 1b - Cohesion for growth and employment - the Council intends to accept the commitment appropriations proposed by the Commission in its preliminary draft budget.
As regards heading 2 - Preservation and management of natural resources - the appropriations proposed by the Council were based on earlier results and past experience has shown that, despite being applied horizontally, these appropriations are generally speaking always very close to the figures for the final execution.
This was the subject of a joint statement which we approved at our conciliation meeting and I can assure you that the Council attaches the greatest political importance to ensuring that all operational programmes and projects are executed as rapidly as possible and in an appropriate manner.
As regards heading 4 - The EU as a global partner - the Council intends to include some priorities with a political bearing in its draft budget.
I refer to Palestine, for which an increase of EUR 80 million is proposed, in reserve, and Kosovo, for which an increase of EUR 180 million is proposed, likewise in reserve.
We are still in the first stage of the budgetary process and I am sure we shall have further opportunities to give more precise figures in this connection.
I should like to end my explanatory statement with a few words about heading 5 - Administration.
Our principal objective is to have at our disposal in due course a budget for 2008 that will be adequate for the purpose of the Union's political priorities but that is not excessively large, because that would signify acquiescence in a probable failure to execute it effectively and efficiently.
It has worked splendidly in collaboration with the European Parliament and its Committee on Budgets, in particular.
Compared to the preliminary draft budget, commitment appropriations have been cut by EUR 717 million, with the margin for the multiannual financial framework at EUR 3.9 billion.
In the first case payment appropriations have been reduced by more than EUR 500 million and in the second by EUR 498 million.
Such a huge sum of money, EUR 400 million a year, is nevertheless impossible to find, given the current financial framework, and so we need a joint decision by Parliament and the Council.
Just 20% of the 335 Programmes under the European Regional Development Fund and Cohesion Fund have been approved, but the figure for the European Social Fund is just less than 10%.
Most worrying is the situation concerning the Rural Development Fund, where just two of the 96 Programmes have been approved.
Parliament's new Secretary-General has put forward a new proposal for Parliament's 2008 budget, and I would like to congratulate him, since it is extremely good and well-balanced.
One is that Parliament's budget is a taxpayer's budget, and that we would try to keep to the 2007 expenditure levels where new projects are concerned.
I should like to assure the Council Presidency that a promising start was made, in terms of basic agreements, with the tripartite dialogue and the conciliation procedure on 13 July.
The five statements to which you referred, particularly concerning how we deal with the decentralised agencies, are a move in the right direction and one on which I hope we can build.
Obviously, what we have to do now, in this budgetary procedure on the basis of the Council's draft, is to ensure budget discipline and to safeguard commitments already entered into, but of course we also have to adjust the foreseeable and anticipated figures.
In that regard, I do not understand what the Council has said in its additional statement in relation to the sub-headings on growth and employment (1a) and on agricultural policy and market-related expenditure - namely that if the amounts are insufficient, the Commission must be asked to submit an amending budget.
The figure for payments in the Commission's preliminary draft was EUR 8.2 billion less than the ceiling in the Financial Perspective.
Under the heading for the Lisbon Strategy, growth and employment, for example, the fact of creating a new EUR 342 million margin, and reducing the payments by EUR 548 million from the figure in the preliminary draft, effectively amounts to making an artificial margin to accommodate the European Council's pronouncements on political priorities.
The Member States undertook - and I quote here - referring to the Statement of Assurance mentioned in paragraph 44 of the Interinstitutional Agreement: 'to produce an annual summary at the appropriate level of the available audits and declarations'. 'to produce an annual summary at the appropriate level of the available audits and declarations'.
The Commission, certainly, considers that this approach and methodology is unsound, particularly in categories 1a and 1b, where we talk about innovation and research, even more so as we have an additional problem with the European Institute of Technology and the Galileo programme, which has to be solved as an additional parallel problem of the annual European budget procedures.
The Council's proposal includes the horizontal cut in the conditions in which the Council itself will not be able to fulfil its commitment to employ extra people; more than 800 staff members to perform additional developmental tasks surely cannot be acceptable to the Commission.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The Lisbon Strategy requires that 3% of the Member States' GDP should be invested in research, two thirds originating from the private sector.
Having regard to the fact that both the European Union and its Member States will approve their budgets for 2008 in the autumn, I require that the investments in education and research have priority in the European Union.
