Oswaldo Payá and the representatives of the Ladies in White, Laura Pollán and Berta Soler, were prohibited from leaving their country by the Cuban authorities even though all the necessary procedures were set in motion more than two months ago.
I should like to say in this regard that this corresponds to neither the spirit of the political dialogue recently resumed nor the cooperation between Cuba and the European Union. (Applause) Andrei Sakharov did the European Parliament a particular honour when, more than 20 years ago, he acknowledged this House for its decision to name this prize after him and gave his assent.
In 1988, when the prize was awarded for the first time, the laureate Nelson Mandela was in prison.
The decision by Hu Jia to address a few words to the participants in a meeting of our Subcommittee on Human Rights was an example of this great courage.
The laureate of the 2008 Sakharov Prize, Hu Jia, was nominated as the representative of the silenced voices in China und Tibet, but today we shall hear one of those voices.
I am sure that, one day, we shall also be able to hear the voice of Hu Jia himself in the Hemicycle of the European Parliament. (Applause) I should now like to request that the message received a couple of days ago from Hu Jia's wife, Zeng Jinyan, be played.
wife of Hu Jia. - Dear friends, I am Hu Jia's wife, Zeng Jinyan.
Hu Jia is currently in prison and so is unable to come to the ceremony to receive his Sakharov Prize.
The good news is that Hu Jia was transferred on 10 October 2008 from Chaobai prison in Tianjin to the Beijing municipal prison, and that the conditions in which he is being held have improved.
I visited Hu Jia in the Beijing municipal prison on 21 November 2008.
At the end of October 2008 or beginning of November, I am not exactly sure which, State Security police officers told Hu Jia he had won the Sakharov Prize.
And when I saw him on 21 November, I could sense that he was very happy about it.
I know that Hu Jia spoke to his mother and to the policemen about it.
Since the day of his trial, on 3 April, there have been others such as Huang Qi, Zeng Honglin and Chen Daojun who have been arrested by the authorities because they expressed their views publicly.
There have been cases in which, after human rights activists, writers and others have used their freedom of thought, their relatives have also been harassed by the police, have lost their jobs or have been put under house arrest.
For all these reasons, I would like to respect the desire that Hu Jia has expressed on many occasions.
The judicial system has no independence.
Nonetheless, there are people who continue their quest for the truth.
That is why there is a group of thinking people, like Hu Jia, in China who have never abandoned their quest for the truth.
But Hu Jia has paid a very heavy price.
The European Parliament has, from the outset, taken an interest in Hu Jia's case and has deployed considerable efforts on behalf of freedom for Hu Jia and other Chinese human rights activists, efforts that demand respect.
If you had not supported us for so long, if you had not taken an interest in our fate, if you had not constantly encouraged us, I think we would never have found the courage to confront such a difficult social reality.
Thank you for all the efforts you have undertaken for Hu Jia, for me and for our family.
Thank you for your efforts on behalf of human rights activists and your contribution to the progress of Chinese society.
Ladies and gentlemen, before I close this sitting - and we are pleased to see not only Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner but also Commissioner Figel' here - I would ask you to rise as a token of our solidarity with all the absent laureates who are still having to fight for their rights and have been deprived of their freedom as a result.
