Pharmaceutical products package (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the pharmaceutical products package.
However, health or restoration to health is not just a right.
The number of counterfeit medicines confiscated at the EU's external borders increased almost fourfold between 2005 and 2007.
The problem has also affected the legal supply chain for medicines.
The proposal's sole objective is to improve patient safety.
Finally, the pharmaceutical package includes a proposal for improved patient information.
Patients have a right to information and this applies in particular to medicines.
In a democratic society, it therefore goes without saying that patients must be provided with comprehensive information about matters which affect their health.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Verheugen for providing us with this opportunity.
I would also stress the point that the patient must play the central role in this regard.
Anyone watching prime-time television in the United States can see what trouble this can cause. 'Ask your doctor for x medicine for breast cancer or y medicine for cystitis.' So far, there has been a ban on the advertising of medicines in Europe and, as far as I am concerned, that is how it should remain.
The pharmaceutical industry wants to inform patients about its products and thinks that it is the body most capable of doing that.
There must be a very clear dividing line between information and advertising and patients should have the right to reliable information.
Commissioner Verheugen is also right in saying that this phenomenon is not so much a consequence of parallel trade as of altogether different mechanisms which we need to tackle.
I would therefore like us to tighten up the legislation in this area.
I see many advantages to being able, from a political position, to steer research into solving a disease problem instead of treating the symptoms for 30 years with medication that is very lucrative for the undertakings concerned.
Patients need to be better informed about medicines and of course about their unwanted side effects, so that they can participate in treatment more effectively.
I am very pleased that the Commission has included this in its proposal as something that may be included in the information that may be provided.
However, like the Commission, I believe that patients and the general public should have the right to sound and accurate information on pharmaceutical products.
It is important for it to be possible, as an ordinary citizen, to find reliable information quickly, particularly in view of the fact that there is plenty of information that is downright misleading, in particular in various chat rooms on the Internet that are easy to find if someone is in a vulnerable situation.
However, just as the Commission has proposed, it is necessary for the information to be monitored objectively so that it can be relied upon.
The issue of counterfeit medicines is unrelated to intellectual property.
Fake medicines are not produced as a result of a dispute about intellectual property.
In Great Britain, 5% of all the people who are admitted to hospital are there because they have taken the wrong medicine, in other words, a medicine which they are allergic to or which they should not have been given.
Of all the patients in hospital in Great Britain, 5% have been hospitalised because they have taken the wrong medicine.
However, I will be very happy to consider this problem further.
The debate is closed.
