Sales in the United States have fallen by 32% in a year, reaching their lowest level in 25 years.
The three big American car manufacturers - General Motors, Ford and Chrysler - have requested emergency aid from the Federal State.
The emerging markets which, until this summer, offset the fall in sales for these countries, have also been hit by the crisis, but to a lesser degree.
In China, sales were down 1.4% in September.
The automotive market has not yet fallen in Russia, but there is a significant slowdown in this market and it could experience the first falls at the beginning of next year.
The end of the year may prove difficult and the decline in the automotive market could be around 5% for the whole of 2008, which, for this market, would be the worst result recorded since 1993.
The Commission - I shall leave Commissioner Verheugen to expand on this - will make proposals on 26 November regarding European measures to support industry, especially the automotive sector.
These efforts must be coordinated in order to maximise the effectiveness of this support.
This is a sector which, all told, employs 12 million people in Europe and has a far-reaching impact stretching into other sectors.
We still have no reason to hope that this will change very quickly in 2009.
In this regard, there has been a line of credit at the European Investment Bank for years whereby car makers are offered favourable-rate credit in order to develop new environmentally friendly vehicles.
Finally, I would like to point out once again that we must ensure in our trade policy, too, that we maintain the future readiness of the European motor industry.
One European car maker, Adam Opel GmbH in Germany, a 100% subsidiary of General Motors, is currently in very worrying financial waters.
Opel manufactures in several European countries and has a supply chain stretching across Europe.
In Sweden, too, there is a problem with another General Motors subsidiary, Saab, where the problems are structural and considerably worse.
From the European perspective, I would say that we will do everything in our power to help European manufacturers get through this difficult time so that they will be able to play their role as a real engine for future growth and sound jobs in the future, too. (Applause) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the manufacturing sector in the European Union that produces a third of the cars produced in the world.
The sector is in crisis, throughout the world, and we can find a way out of this situation by making a technological advance - here we are in agreement - and therefore we need to decide between producing 21st century cars in Europe or losing this manufacturing activity to countries which are coming close to producing low-technology, low-cost cars in large quantities, such as India or China.
We have often regretted the lack of a strong industrial policy in the European Union.
I agree fully with Vice-President Verheugen in this respect.
This is another reason for us to fight to maintain a European automotive industry which employs 2 million people directly and 10 million indirectly, equating to 7% of all European jobs.
Ecofin meets on 2 December - we hope that a decision will be made there that will bring about flexible, favourable credit flows in the motor industry.
For that reason, it would also have been good if Mrs Cruz had been present.
It cannot be said that defending production and employment is not as important as the financial sector.
In recent years, we have seen various relocations, both in the production of cars, as in the case of Opel and Renault, and in the production of components, such as the cases of Yazaki Saltano and Lear in particular, in addition to the threat of reduced employment in other companies, such as Sunviauto and Delphi and in hundreds of micro- and small enterprises affected by this situation.
Therefore, the European Union should not be surprised by the ever-worsening maelstrom of problems since it has worked industriously to bring about the downfall of this once blooming sector through a flood of regulations, for instance, that have been rained down on the motor industry.
That is the main problem in the motor industry.
Only in this way can the jobs in this industry be secured in the long term, and I would also say that the best incentive would be to postpone a sensible climate-change policy for cars, make cars affordable, as has been said, and not to make any excessive demands.
I can only describe what Mrs Harms said in this regard as completely removed from the reality of the situation. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that the motor industry is in crisis and there are many reasons for this.
The European automotive industry is a key industry.
In order to be able to implement the necessary investment in environmentally friendly vehicles - as has been mentioned a number of times today - and low-consumption technologies, car makers need public guarantees or low interest credit from the European Investment Bank.
Whilst the problems are undeniably very serious, why support the car industry and not other sectors?
While we have a short-term responsibility for jobs that are on the line, we also have a long-term responsibility to leave behind a healthy economy, a healthy environment, and also healthy state finances for future generations.
Manufacturers' results are falling.
As you said, Mr President, faced with this crisis, what is needed is a coordinated response from Europe and the Member States, especially those directly concerned.
Finally, in the current circumstances, it would be detrimental to the manufacturers to undermine the protection covering external bodywork parts. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think this debate we are having on one of the most critical sectors in the European economy is timely.
The minister referred to the data earlier; there has been a marked fall in sales of 5% in 2008.
What must not be allowed to happen now is for us to have a situation whereby state aid undermines employment in companies in one country but boosts it in another.
It means ensuring that European industry is able, in area after area, to be a leader in terms of technology and development, as well as within the environmental and energy sectors too.
This means ensuring that we can have open free trade in which the European motor industry has access to world markets.
I hope the Commission will be extremely vigilant in keeping an eye on errant Member States that might be tempted down this unsuccessful road. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said before, the car industry is a vital sector; indeed, it is a key sector for the European economy, providing, as it does, direct or indirect employment to 12 million people.
I therefore believe that cheap loans for this key sector are more than justified, but this fresh money should obviously be put into new, environmentally friendly technologies.
Moreover, various manufacturers, including Ford in Genk and Opel in Antwerp, are already investing and making huge efforts, including on behalf of vulnerable groups of the labour market.
The crisis is affecting all manufacturers and there is a knock-on effect hitting the 12 million European citizens who work in the automotive industry.
They have been using 7.5 litres of fuel per 100 kilometres over 100 years..
It is therefore elsewhere that the automobile industry must be steered to avoid future bankruptcies because we must prepare for the post-car era. (DE) Madam President, first of all, we would observe that the markets in Europe that have been less subject to collapse have a clear regulatory environment in respect of legislation on the taxation of CO2 and a clear regulatory environment in respect of what is expected of car makers.
I note the lines of action proposed by Commissioner Verheugen which I consider to be good initiatives and which the Presidency supports, either through loans from the European Investment Bank for the most significant ecological investments, or through tax incentives to make the demand for cars more compatible with environmental requirements, to renew cars on the road that are ageing and therefore move further away from the environmental requirements, to reduce the cost of motor vehicles, which also seems to be an important objective, and to move more in the direction of vehicles that are more economical.
The only instrument available is low-interest credit from the European Investment Bank.
This is necessary in order to be able to finance the investments which, for example, you, as the European legislator, demand from the car makers, namely investments in modern, environmentally friendly technologies.
It was the first industrial sector for which we developed a sectoral policy of this nature at all, and the reason for this was precisely the fact that we saw future problems facing this sector in good time.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
Approximately 300 000 cars and 300 000 goods and passenger vehicles are produced in Europe every year.
