Mr President, Mr Tajani, ladies and gentlemen, the two principles that have guided my work since the start of this process have been ensuring that all modes of transport are on a more equal footing with regard to passengers' rights - which is an objective that the Commission and the European Parliament have set themselves - and ensuring that these rights are clearly enshrined in this text.
The general spirit of the text is that people should be able to travel in Europe without being subjected to the whims of the companies concerned, and should be able to demand a minimum level of service and a minimum level of information and, lastly, that persons with restricted mobility should be able to benefit from the same quality of rights as other European citizens without their being penalised twice over.
The content of the version adopted in committee on 31 March would appear to be acceptable to everyone.
This is, firstly, because the rights of persons with restricted mobility are being increased.
Let me describe them briefly for you: Amendment 73 is a simple linguistic clarification, and Amendment 82 sets a ceiling for the strict liability set out in Article 6(3) of the proposed regulation.
As rapporteur I endorse Amendment 80 on the exclusion tout court of local transport, tabled by my group, but I have also indicated my support for Amendment 81, which gives Member States the power to exempt local transport, provided that they guarantee passengers a similar level of rights to that set out in the regulation.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, you will vote tomorrow on draft amendments to the two proposals from the Commission on protecting the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport and also passengers travelling by sea and inland waterway.
In connection with the draft amendments which you voted on in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I would like to mention two aspects in particular.
The first is that you attach great importance to the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
So, I think that today we are discussing topics that affect the lives of all citizens, which is why I am persuaded that as far as the bus and coach proposal is concerned, support should be given - and the meeting of the Committee on Transport and Tourism of 30 March showed encouraging signs of this - to the Commission's approach for the widest possible scope, covering all regular passenger transport services whether international, national, regional, urban or suburban.
I think that a single legislative instrument must be the answer.
On 30 March 2009, alongside the debate on the Teychenné report in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, a public debate was held between ministers within the framework of the EU transport council.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I want to congratulate both our rapporteurs.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) I should like to thank the rapporteurs on behalf of our group.
Therefore, it is not only required by law but also morally imperative for the European Union to put these people on an equal footing.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Mr President, during this part-session, two questions came up with regard to collective passenger transport.
I should like to point out in connection with the Teychenné report that it proposes a cohesive framework for the protection of consumers/passengers which also respects small transport companies and protects their business and competitiveness in the event of accidents due to circumstances beyond their control or in cases where maritime transport is affected by bad weather.
It is vital that we all remember that the users of transport are the most important stakeholders - a fact often forgotten by some transport companies.
In this context - and here I am only taking up something that is mentioned time and again - it is very important that we look after the rights of persons with reduced mobility in particular.
This is urgently needed. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner Tajani, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Teychenné on the quality of his report.
The Teychenné report deserves my full support because it reinforces the regulatory framework not only for bus and coach passengers, but also for passengers in an area dear to me, namely sea and inland waterway passengers.
In the case of bus and coach transport, this report recognises the need for additional measures for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
I would like to use this opportunity to call on the Commission and Council to make every effort for the EU to strengthen its cooperation with the other states in the Horn of Africa in order to prevent occurrences of piracy and to make transit journeys in the region safer. (EL) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, we are today in the very fortunate position of being able to state that, with the decision by the European Parliament, passengers' rights are also protected in sectors which were not covered hitherto.
The vote will take place tomorrow.
