The issue of supply and demand is a very delicate one because there is a growing world population - it will increase by 40% by 2050 - so we are going to have to look at these issues.
Those farmers will not produce as much in the next season, and that could exacerbate the longer-term problem of global food security.
In the run-up to the adoption by the Council of the food facility on 16 December, the European Commission has already had very fruitful discussions with the UN high-level task force.
The Madrid Conference on food security for all on 26 and 27 January is certainly a key event to move the debate to another level, one that seeks to identify the key priorities to address world food hunger.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) The action taken by Parliament in the wake of the food riots has enabled EUR 1 billion to be released to combat the food crisis.
in writing. - (EL) International and regional agreements to date have proved incapable of normalising market supply and trade and safeguarding transparent and stable prices for agricultural produce.
That is why I tabled a number of amendments within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development that are aimed at making this report more ambitious and, in particular, at proposing that the European Commission adopt a comprehensive strategy on food security issues, thus making the Union's Community policies as a whole more consistent.
While I am delighted that this text emphasises the CAP's crucial role in achieving the objective of food security, I regret that the rapporteur is in favour of aligning agricultural policy more with the market and that she accuses environmental protection initiatives of being responsible for a reduction in agricultural production within Europe.
Firstly, agricultural production will have to double in 30 years since the world's population will reach 9 billion people by 2050.
The fact is, 860 million people continue to starve.
in writing. - (HU) The most important question facing the European agricultural sector in 2009 is how the global economic crisis will affect the conditions for the production and consumption of agricultural products.
The rise in energy prices, adverse meteorological events and the increase in demand for energy due to world population growth have produced high food prices.
