I welcome our new colleague and remind Members that, under Rule 7(5), until such time as a Member's credentials have been verified or a ruling has been given on any dispute, the Member shall take her seat in Parliament and on its bodies and shall enjoy all the rights attaching thereto.
There is a Member of this House who has today made, in the German press, and to the , extensive and serious allegations against – in his own words – some 200 Members of this House, who he believes to be guilty of offences against the rules by which this House is governed.
What I do, however, regard as a very serious matter, is that the Member in question has today told the that he knows of 7&#160;200 specific instances in which this has happened – 7&#160;200 specific instances!
That is why I believe it is in the interests of all of us that these accusations should be brought out into the open and examined by an authority competent to do so. &#160;&#160; – Mr Schulz, I do not wish to hide anything from any appropriate authority, but as President, I do not want the details and facts behind the allegation to be hidden from me.
I stand by that point of view and I ask you to look at this precedent more closely.
At a time when we are about to open an electoral campaign, the fact that Parliament is able to protect its Members, even if they commit Community budget fraud, is, I believe, an extremely serious issue.
I deplore this decision by our House. &#160;&#160; – I take note of your point, Mrs Berès.
All of this took place without any xenophobic reactions or statements, and without any backlash against specific religions or countries.
In light of everything that took place and the admirable behaviour of the people, it is essential that we adopt strong and democratic measures in the EU in the fight against terrorism.
We must also, however, fight vigorously to prevent a militaristic polarisation of views and an ideology that is simply anti-terrorist from taking root in Europe and we must fight to ensure that our societies are never ruled by such ideology. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I appeal to the House and to the President to take every action possible in order to try to bring to an end the human rights abuses in Iran.
The Iranian regime has been perpetrating severe human rights abuses for far too long.
Every MEP in this House should back Europe's Iranian community in demanding human rights and in demanding justice for Iranians. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, on the night of 19&#160;March, 23 young people died in a terrible bus accident in Konginkangas in central Finland.
I hope that, in the future, Parliament too will be able to benefit from this committee’s investigation.
At the same time, I would ask you when, in two weeks’ time, you visit Finland, to offer Parliament’s condolences to our people for this terrible accident. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to condemn the arrest, by the armed forces of Colombia, of Rubiel Vargas, a member of the Executive Committee of the Columbian Communist Youth and correspondent of the independent news agency Ancol.
This arrest comes two months after the arrest of Gabriel Becerra, Secretary-General of the Communist Youth and representative of the social and political front of Colombia, on 23 January.
Luz Perly Córdoba, a trade unionist from the agricultural movement Campesina de Arauca, was arrested on 18 February and the communist Marίa Lucero Henao was murdered, together with her husband, by soldiers on 6 February.
It illustrates just how hypocritical President Uribe was when he spoke of national reconciliation a few weeks ago, during the official reception which you and the few Members present in the House afforded him. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today marks the official enlargement of NATO from 19 to 26 members as the three Baltic Republics join Slovakia, Slovenia, Romania and Bulgaria – in effect all the current EU accession countries except Malta and Cyprus.
I wonder if you could raise this matter with OLAF because, on the subject of Eurostat, there did not seem to be the massive speed that was required for this case and it would be a much more interesting case for us in this Parliament.
I am also very concerned about freedom of the press in Belgium and I wish you would take this up with the Belgian Home Office. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, a dispute has arisen in Italy, to be specific in my region, the Trentino-Alto Adige/South Tyrol, regarding the ethno-linguistic census organised under the region’s statute of special autonomy and assiduously carried out by the German-speaking administration.
This census runs counter to the principle of free movement as well as to Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of personal data and in particular to Article 8 protecting the ethnic origin of citizens.
Whilst possible infringement proceedings are underway against the Italian State, it seems that Commissioner Bolkestein directly agreed to a solution with the Governor of the Province of Bolzano, as the President himself announced after returning from a trip to Brussels.
Considering that the Italian Government, which is responsible for this kind of negotiation, has already made an official protest, I would be pleased to know from Commissioner Bolkestein what the tenor of this meeting was: if it is true that a solution was agreed to or if the issue was simply discussed. &#160;&#160; – I see that Commissioner Bolkestein is here.
I think he will be enlarging on this experience, which should be added to the reports of violence during these recent elections in Turkey, which has even resulted in deaths.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after this House awarded the Sakharov Prize to Oswaldo Payá, and in so doing encouraged Cuban dissidents and the fight for freedom in Cuba, we cannot remain silent.
Mr President, I should like to ask you to communicate with the Cuban authorities and express our concern for the political prisoners’ health and at the fact that they are languishing in Cuban jails. &#160;&#160; – I can do that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Greek Government's invitation to NATO to assume responsibility for the security of the Olympic Games provoked acute reaction from a very broad political spectrum in Greece.
We are now in a situation in which OLAF is interested in seeing accounts belonging to journalists who write about fraud, but has still not requisitioned bank statements from those who have been perpetrating fraud.
The scope of the pre-trade transparency obligation is now clearer, in particular with regard to the transactions to which this obligation applies.
The Commission is grateful that the compromise package does not include amendments on other political issues that had been fiercely debated in the Council; reopening those issues would have put adoption of the directive in danger.
The final text will be a significant step forward in the integration of European financial markets.
For the first time we have been able to agree a common market regulatory framework that will put our market at the forefront in terms of flexibility, innovation and investor protection.
It deserves the support of a strong absolute majority vote of Members of this Parliament.
The compromise package also comprises transitional arrangements for those third-country bond issuers in respect of bonds already admitted to trading on a European-regulated market before 1 January 2005.
Thus, if you decide to adopt the compromise package tabled before you, one of the final initiatives of the financial services action plan will have been completed in record time, with only a year having passed since the Commission made its proposal.
Adoption after a single reading would be a major achievement. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it was very useful to hear that statement from the Commissioner.
Parliament was absolutely right in rejecting it and also clearly right in supporting a compromise which regularises and standardises detailed explanations, but does not allow for the mandatory approach already foreseen.
We must therefore not drag our feet on this issue.
This too, Commissioner, is contentious, and that is why Article 29 contains another reference to a review of this legislation within five years of its full entry into force.
There are positive points in the package as will be agreed tomorrow.
The framework for those products is more complex than I would like, but execution-only business can continue.
It is regrettable that the Council has rejected PPE-DE amendments on country of origin.
I also welcome an extensive framework of post-trade transparency, which will enable the markets to work better and provide welcome investor protection.
Welcome technical clarifications on commodity derivatives have also been included, which will give the ISD framework the ability to adapt to innovation in the future in the commodities and derivatives markets, ensuring that new derivatives can be included in the framework in the future and thus providing more investor protection and greater legal certainty.
The move to standard market size from block size is very welcome and there are other important clarifications, for example, allowing firms better protection against multiple hits.
It is vital that this directive is implemented in a sensible way, both by the Commission, by CESR – 'Caesar' – and by the regulatory authorities in each country.
I would appeal to the Commission to ensure that it is implemented sensibly because that is the only way we will achieve real gains in terms of competition and liquidity for investors across Europe. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to you in my capacity as the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market’s rapporteur on the transparency directive.
I believe that the compromise proposal that has now been arrived at for consideration at first reading is a good one, and that, as a whole, it deals well with the basic objections that this House expressed to the Commission’s original proposal.
Secondly, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market attached significance to coherence and conformity with the directive on electronic commercial registers, in which we incorporated an option clause on publication media, enabling the Member States, depending on their own traditions, to make provision for the publication of required information in media other than the Internet.
Moreover, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is satisfied with the solution that has been found to the question of debt securities.
I believe that the rule that has now been devised on limiting ‘grandfathering’, avoids that, and that our negotiating position is no worse; we are simply making it more difficult for those who are already in Europe.
All things considered, I am happy with this outcome and thank my fellow rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs most warmly for their cooperation. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Villiers, Mr Skinner, let me start by saying that both directives are part of the Financial Services Action Plan and thus help to strengthen and complete the internal financial market.
Thirdly, both directives, as they stand at present, have made substantial changes to the Commission draft and to the Common Position and have brought them more into line with this House’s point of view.
The transparency requirements in the case of loans have been vastly improved.
The wording on the publication of company information that has now been agreed on ensures that Member States can require their own companies to publish information in printed form.
The fact that we are arriving today at a final conclusion represents an achievement by Parliament and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and demonstrates that delays in legislation, when they occur, are not due to Parliament’s negligence.
Of course, the European passport is not a new institution, but it had languished due to the difficulties created by the differences in the national legislation of the Member States in the cross-border activities of companies and, by extension of course, in the free movement of capital in Europe.
The new directive proposes measures for homogenous and harmonised protection of investors, especially small investors, in the various Member States.
I would also thank Commissioner Bolkestein for these two important parts of the financial services action plan.
We can now create a common financial market within the EU.
If we are to be able to achieve our objectives, it is important for investors and consumers to be able to rely upon the financial markets and their players.
It is the view of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party that the committee’s amendments do a good job of balancing the requirements of investor choice and investor protection, as well as creating rules for soundly operating financial markets within the EU.
It is clear that companies established in the City, and mainly US companies, have done a lot to promote their own interests.
The Council and the Commissioner have, however, ensured a degree of balance and have not exempted companies from the transparency obligations.
On the contrary, our demands concerning complete information about the size of a company’s finances and about the social and economic impact, were rejected by the Council and postponed until a later directive, as were, furthermore, our demands concerning information on the remuneration of company directors.
I therefore suggest that we act very firmly against any illegitimate compromise on Rules 39 and 42 and that the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (Efrag) and its resources are strengthened as a matter of urgency and, if necessary, the 2005 deadline is put back. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I think that everyone here is relieved to see these two directives finally adopted after so much work.
We are opening up the monopoly of the regulated markets and we can hope that this new competition will provide access to cheaper products and will lead to more liquid markets and, therefore, to the best use being made of resources.
From this point of view, I regret the fact that our Parliament has not been able, in conjunction with the Council, of going further in defining the size of the market and that we allowed, on this issue too, a key point in negotiation and which provided balance in the text to be left to our experts and for the next stage of the regulatory process. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, I would like to ask you to give special attention to Article 17 of the Transparency Directive, which deals with the dissemination of what is termed price-sensitive information.
The compromise proposal, as adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, creates, in my view, another problem.
As I see it, the forming of monopolies is completely at odds with the directive's objective, particularly the removal of national barriers in terms of transparency requirements and the improvement of efficiency, openness and integrity of the European capital market. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, the adoption of both directives today is a welcome development.
It is important that we have managed, in the life of this Parliament, before the elections, and before enlargement, to lay the foundation stone of an integrated financial market that will add to Europe’s appeal, all the more so in comparison with the US.
Secondly, I am glad that we have got this far, primarily largely thanks to Parliament, along with the Commission.
I think we in this House have done a good job, both in terms of its substance and of the time it has taken.
I therefore believe that adopting these two directives this week, and within the life of this Parliament, will add up to a good piece of work on our part for Europe as a financial marketplace. &#160;&#160; Madam President, we have taken another two steps forward in the financial services action plan, and fortunately not one step back.
I am talking mainly about the Transparency Directive and the criticism concerning mandatory quarterly reporting.
The first had to do with the provision of information about management salaries and bonuses in annual reports.
These companies are happy to abide by an obligation and, as a consequence, competitors that do not yet report these payments or bribes on a voluntary basis would no longer be able to engage in unfair competition.
Unfortunately, this point has not yet been included in the text, but I would nevertheless like to bring it to your attention once again.
This is not, therefore, about forcing companies to do business in a socially responsible manner, but the moment a company boasts about all the good things it does, that should appear transparently and clearly in a verified report, as happens with financial conduct.
In-house matching by large banks, which breaks the monopoly of the stock exchange, is, from my vantage point, positive and can, under the conditions that we are now stipulating in the compromise, offer additional opportunities for investors and for entrepreneurs who need capital.
As our rapporteur has rightly said, this compromise has failed to achieve its basic aim.
Specifically, the directive should set down Community rules applicable in all the Member States, in order to create equal conditions for the various actors and to allow banks and other financial institutions to enter into competition with stock markets and offer their customers the ability to internalise.
The factor that brought France and Italy around to the common position was that financial institutions have to make their quotes public before the transaction and must keep to a fixed price.
In all these complex economic interactions, confidence and information play a major role.
One of them, to take an example, was Article 6, which dealt with quarterly reports.
If they are to function properly, financial markets need reliable information on companies, but what investors value is the quality of the information rather than the frequency with which it is supplied.
I am pleased to say that we have together been able to delete Article 6.
In Article 17, the Commission insisted that company information should be published only on the Internet and that notifications should be sent out only by email.
Not only have we been able to ensure the inclusion of such print media in Article 17, but we have also succeeded in deleting the clause that imposed exclusive use of the Internet.
I have advised my group, that of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to give it overall support. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner Bolkestein, Mr&#160;Skinner, Mrs&#160;Villiers, I believe that this Parliament can be satisfied with the work carried out on such an important issue and, in particular, on the directive on markets in financial instruments.
The compromise succeeded in taking account of the procedures, characteristics and individual practices of the economic and financial systems in the different Member States – I am thinking, for example, about the case of Italy – without, however, making excessive concessions to the protectionist allures of some of the systems or to those who would have wanted to see a single model implemented.
The solution upon which we will vote tomorrow will, moreover, offer new possibilities to investors in those countries that had, instead, opted for the market concentration rule.
To conclude, Madam President, I announce that the radical Members of the Lista Bonino will vote in favour of this compromise. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, there is not much more I can say, since only a few questions have been addressed to the Commission.
Mrs van den Berg mentioned two points.
Whilst maintaining a voluntary approach, the compromise gives a clear signal to Member States to encourage more transparency from issuers in their annual reports and within the framework of current international initiatives, such as those taken by the World Bank.
Furthermore, it would be made clear in a recital that a home Member State may always request publication of regulated information via newspapers, in addition to other measures of dissemination.
I should like to remind you that in March of last year, Parliament indicated that in its view, the present situation, with unlimited provision of information to the United States, should end.
Parliament repeated this request in October last year and asked the Commission to indicate what information can be passed on legitimately and without any risks.
What we are therefore doing now is to legitimise what we have considered to be illegitimate on two occasions.
Parliament has asked for an agreement in which the role of the airline companies is clearly indicated, how they are protected and what the guarantees are for passengers, enabling the latter to correct their details.
We have also asked for an agreement in which the liability of airline companies and governments is regulated in the event of errors in code transcription.
As a matter of fact, pursuant to this Act, any citizen who is suspected of terrorism can be indicted, without having any access to the courts.
On the contrary, we have asked the Commission three times to table our own proposal which could also apply in Europe.
It is about us having to protect our citizens and them being able to expect this from us, in the same way as US citizens can expect this of their government. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, this is not the first time that this House has been asked to give its attention to this important and complex issue.
We tackle this against a rather sombre backdrop.
Just before the weekend, the European Council agreed on a strong package of measures to reinforce the anti-terrorism efforts of the European Union.
I know that Parliament will not want to send any equivocal messages about terrorism.
At the same time, we all agree that the fight against terrorism cannot and must not be carried out at the expense of the protection of fundamental rights such as privacy.
Against this background, I would like to invite Members to reflect carefully on what this resolution – if adopted – could possibly achieve and to check whether this corresponds to our objectives.
I dare to say 'our objectives' because the Commission and the Parliament can surely agree on what our goals are.
Firstly, to cooperate to fight the scourge of terrorism without sacrificing fundamental civil rights and liberties.
But, as Members of this House know from their day-to-day dealings, the result of negotiations is rarely, if ever, perfect.
Furthermore, it seeks to open new negotiations with a view to reaching a better solution.
Members of this House have had their own contacts with American representatives over the last few months, and I am sure you have formed your own views about their openness to our arguments.
The resolution and its defenders also point to obtaining passengers' consent to the transfer as the 'magic' solution while we skilfully negotiate a new and better deal.
But that should be in addition to – not instead of – the actions we have taken to improve protection in the United States.
In doing so, it has undoubtedly strengthened the Commission's position in its negotiations with the United States.
Indeed, I am currently still in touch with the American authorities with a view to firming up and clarifying their commitments regarding the conditions under which they will be able to forward passenger data to third-country authorities.
In fact, since data on passengers whose final destination or transit destination is the United States was first forwarded to the United States more than a year ago, this Parliament has expressed many concerns about the completely unacceptable way in which this information has been and is still being forwarded.
Today, however, we are once again debating this issue, but in rather different circumstances.
Firstly, because we have before us a Commission decision which describes the level of protection that the United States guarantees for the data forwarded to them as ‘adequate’, and, secondly, because the recent tragic attacks of 11 March in Madrid – following on from those of 11 September – oblige all of us to reflect and accept that only through international cooperation can we triumph over a brutal and merciless enemy which attacks free and democratic societies such as ours.
Let us accept this new legal framework for cooperation with the United States despite all our reservations.
The negotiations held between the Community authorities and the United States authorities have led to agreements, the importance of which I believe must not be underestimated: we have managed to reduce the data that will be forwarded, to restrict the purposes for which they will be collected, to restrict the time for which they will be stored and to ensure that our citizens have mechanisms allowing them to correct that data and lodge complaints in the event that these are used improperly.
Furthermore, following a period of three and a half years, the agreement could be revised in the light of the results achieved.
Effective action in this regard requires cooperation and coordination to be promoted within the European Union, between the police and judicial authorities of the Member States and between the bodies which the European Union has created for this purpose – of which I would highlight Europol and Eurojust – but also through cooperation with third countries, and there is absolutely no doubt that we share with the United States the common objective and firm intention of beating the scourge of terrorism.
Personally, I am still waiting for the Council to reply to an urgent question on the serious misfortune of an Italian citizen, arrested on his arrival in the United States and sent back to Europe because of a misunderstanding, without being able to offer any explanation.
The Commission goes beyond the powers conferred on it by Article 25 of the directive on the protection of data when it states that the United States provides adequate protection of the rights of European citizens.
The Commission has sought to reach an agreement with the United States.
The Commission's proposed deal on the transfer of data is a deal too far: more information is sought than is strictly necessary; that information can be held too long with no right for the individual to correct it; there is no right to compensation for people denied boarding of aircraft and no legal redress against abuse of personal data by the state.
We bow to nobody in our determination to fight terrorism.
We urge our Member States to act more effectively.
We recognise the need to work with democracies across the Atlantic; but let us do so intelligently, with a response that is measured and proportionate, and not sacrifice our freedoms in our determination to fight those who threaten them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for her considerable work on this issue and to say that my Group will support this report.
The issues of appeal and redress are crucial in any legal situation.
This also raises the issue of whether our own institutions, despite the difficult situation, have the right effectively to override our own data-protection rules and controls in an international context.
So we shall support the report. &#160;&#160; Commissioner Bolkestein, we will never agree on the balance between security and freedom if we do not first agree on the fact that this balance must be put into practice in respect of the law.
Commissioner Bolkestein, for 13 months the law of 15 countries of the European Union and even Community regulations have been violated every day.
Of course, today we are in a weak position because we were already in a weak position when we entered negotiations.
The US security authorities can in no way demand that airlines illegally transfer personal data.
Europol and Eurojust do not provide for any democratic control, or for any control by the Court of Justice.
What this means is that we have to act rather than holding interminable debates.
The Article 29 working party has come to the unanimous conclusion that this agreement contravenes European legislation.
Indeed, the fight is not over by a long way. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I very much support the rapporteur's position.
Parliament has adopted a position much more in line with the Treaties than that of the Commission.
The Commission should ensure that the Treaties are complied with and that data transfer complies fully with EU legislation on data protection.
The Commissioner said that adequate levels of protection from the US is the best he can do and that Parliament's attitude is irresponsible.
One only has to look at the United States to see the measures that have been brought in, in recent times, to combat terrorism.
The Patriot Act and other measures do not work.
The fact that different standards of data protection prevail does not mean that citizens’ rights are under threat.
Unfortunately, I had no legal remedy against that either. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no doubt about the need for us to combat the growing menace of international crime and, most importantly, of terrorism.
Commissioner Bolkestein asks us what message we wish to send out to our partners.
What we must send out is a clear message that we wish to cooperate on our common objectives whilst complying with our laws.
The new terrorism tsar should work in tandem with a privacy tsar.
Europe is a forerunner in this area, and Article&#160;29 of the committee’s objections gives rise to great concern.
The objective is, of course, a global solution that has to provide people with the same high level of legal certainty.
The fight against terrorism is much more difficult and needs to be tackled in a much greater variety of ways.
It is an extremely unsatisfactory situation we are in.
Irrespective of how the voting goes on this issue, I would call upon the Commission tirelessly to go on striving for better protection of legal certainty, as well as for protection against terrorism in many forms other than just the present one. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you all warmly for your remarks, but I should like to add something.
The fact is that I am a little thrown by Commissioner Bolkestein’s statement.
There are still a huge number of uncertainties and if even the European Commission is uncertain, why should Parliament give its approval at this moment in time?
I am quite convinced that, if this continues, we will have to ask the EC Court of Justice to advise us whether, in its opinion, this agreement is adequate and whether a light agreement can be concluded which intrudes into the data of EU citizens so drastically.
This is the only road that is open to us, and we have to take it because this light agreement has been decided on.
In reply I would say that the Article&#160;31 Committee has approved the Commission's findings by a qualified majority – in fact, 13 voted in favour and 2 against.
The two Member States which voted against were Luxembourg and Italy.
Mrs Paciotti also mentioned international agreement in the longer term.
It is necessary to provide a legal basis for pull until the push system is in place.
Nonetheless, this provision of the international agreement must not become an excuse for the introduction of push to be delayed.
The fight against terrorism is a global one.
Last Thursday the European Council welcomed the Commission's intention to make a proposal by the middle of this year.
Thus, it is not that we espouse the American approach, it is just that the Commission is at pains to stress that this is the best possible solution and that no other is on offer. &#160;&#160; – Thank you very much, Mr Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
Let me stress that we are talking here about irregularities, and we know that, in the course of further investigations, only a fraction of these irregularities will turn out to be fraud.
Speaking as a representative of this House, I want to make it clear that this is where the various analyses that appear in the media do not go far enough.
There are still different ways of interpreting things, and disputes as to what is to be reported and how, and it is quite simply incredible how a country like Belgium can report 14 cases to the Commission and Italy 107, while Germany reports nearly 2000 cases.
It defies comprehension how, in 2002, of some 262&#160;000 live cattle, the export of which cost us some EUR&#160;62 million of tax revenue, 226&#160;000 could be delivered to a small country like Lebanon.
This is the test case for whether the monitoring of OLAF works or not and for whether or not the necessary action is taken when things get out of control.
In combating fraud, we have stepped up operational cooperation with the Member States.
It was in 2002 that the Convention on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests at last entered into force.
Today, the DG Agriculture has again confirmed to me that very tight controls are carried out both in the countries of origin and in the countries to which they are exported.
A 36% rate of increase may well be desirable in other areas, but it is nothing more or less than a disaster in the anti-fraud field.
Indeed, your cardinal error, in my view, was to do away with the independent position of Financial Controller, and to replace it with an internal audit service, one that is neither independent nor – it would appear – very appealing, in view of the fact that you will, in April, be losing its director, who is also making good his escape.
Finally, we have the Eurostat affair, with its secret accounts and losses acknowledged as totalling at least EUR 8 million.
I would, perhaps, ask you to take a look at the 2001 press in order to see, in great detail, the whole scandal of the export refunds for Jordan – which had also taken place as regards other countries – with the sole purpose of breaching UN sanctions on Iraq.
This has gone on for a number of years, involving various countries, and if the Commission has been unable to see what has been happening, I honestly think that this is because it did not wish to understand.
The problem is that Commissioner Fischler, whose name has not been mentioned here – though his name ought to be the first to come up in these circumstances – cannot ignore the scale of these successive scandals concerning the agriculture budget.
These are the important questions that require answers. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report.
The European Anti-fraud Office (OLAF) was set up under great pressure from Parliament to replace the former UCLAF.
Its task obviously has to be clarified, but at the same time we must ensure that the European Union does not start to become a Community reminiscent of a police state.
At this stage our group does not support point 39, which goes too far in its outline of OLAF’s future role.
We still wish to keep our options open, and for that reason we have drafted Amendment No 8.
I therefore sincerely hope that OLAF has a very good explanation of why this course of action was taken.
OLAF’s director chose not to inform the Commission in time.
The problems have even increased in the last year.
What is required is for the system to be done away with as quickly as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to concentrate on live exports and export refunds, but before that I should like to point out that it is only right that Parliament should have a full report on the case of the German journalists who had property confiscated.
There would be no more scandals in relation to abuse of taxpayers' money, but we need a full report on what has been mentioned in the media recently in relation to the scandals and the fraud involved.
From the 2002 annual report, it appears that the number of reported cases of fraud has risen dramatically.
My fellow-Commissioner with responsibility for enlargement has asked me to make this point clear.
In any case, I will tell him about the critical tone your House has adopted on this issue. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Nonetheless, I want to stress some points that I feel are essential in this report and once again make a number of observations.
Our action must consist of promoting and supporting the participation of women in economic, social, political and environmental fields.
By acting in this way, we allow men and women to take part in social and political life and to thus obtain citizenship, which is a fundamental element in any democracy.
For several years, gender equality has formed an integral part of the political framework which includes the European Union’s development cooperation.
The aim of the regulation that we are voting on this week is, therefore, to strengthen the implementation of measures aimed at promoting equality in the policies, strategies, and operations of the European Union’s development cooperation.
Parliament’s request for additional budget funds had been the only point on which the three institutions had been unable to reach agreement in December.
As regards the others, we were or are in of one mind, as is evident from the fact that the Council and the Commission have taken on board 20 of the 21 amendments proposed by Parliament.
As soon as the new Regulation is adopted, we will devote all our efforts to enhancing its function as a catalyst and its strategic role.
This Regulation provides us at last with a more broadly drawn concept, which will underpin the current implementation strategy in the best possible way.
I am persuaded that, by supporting this Regulation, Parliament will be helping to achieve the international development goals, to promote equality and to give women more rights and a greater role.
This is an essential requirement if we are to successfully combat poverty. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to begin by congratulating both the rapporteur from the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities and the rapporteur from the Committee on Development and Cooperation for the work they have done in connection with this report.
I think that the 20 or 21 amendments tabled at first reading show very well the cooperation there has been between these two committees.
In itself, it is not of course enough, but it can hopefully act as a catalyst, in the way described. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The proposal for a directive falls under the heading of measures to improve the working environment because, according to Article 31 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights under the heading ‘Fair and just working conditions’, every worker has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity.
Protection in this case is contained in the framework directive.
If Parliament votes in favour of this report and the Council accepts Parliament’s amendments, the Directive will be the result of a form of social dialogue, of political dialogue, in this case, through the joint efforts of the PPE-DE Group and the PSE Group who, in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, have understood that, by means of this Directive, we could improve working conditions for European workers.
If we achieve the necessary votes tomorrow, we will have a Directive which is the result of dialogue between the majority political groups in this House aimed at improving the living conditions of workers and protecting their dignity as human beings. &#160;&#160; Commissioner Dimas has the floor.
It really is an immense honour and joy to be here in the European Parliament this evening.
The Commission continues to attach the greatest importance to all measures which are designed to protect the health and safety of workers and which constitute an important factor in relation to the quality of life.
The social agenda emphasised this issue, which was confirmed in the Commission communication on a new strategy for health and safety in the workplace.
I am of the opinion that legislation on electromagnetic fields will be a fundamental step towards achieving better protection for the health and safety of workers exposed to risks from physical agents.
The most recent scientific information available shows that overexposure to electromagnetic fields may have serious consequences on the health of workers and therefore merits special attention.
Nonetheless, it should be noted that, within the framework of the Commission report on the practical application, the Commission will pay particular attention to these issues and will closely monitor developments in scientific data in these two sectors.
I should like to congratulate the Members of Parliament on the quality of their amendments expressing Parliament’s concern and interest as regards the risks and results of exposure of workers to electromagnetic fields.
It should be noted that the Commission, throughout the highly technical and very difficult legislative procedure, made intensive and, on occasion, persistent efforts to preserve a high level of protection in the text, while at the same time ensuring that a final compromise solution could be reached.
It should be noted that, in order to achieve an overall compromise, the Commission accepted the Council common position, even though it had reservations about the watering down of the provisions on health surveillance.
As far as your amendments are concerned, the Commission can accept them as they stand, in that they improve the quality of the text and clarify its meaning.
Specifically, Amendment No 1 clarifies the procedure for assessing levels of exposure in accordance with the provisions of framework directive 89/391.
Amendment No 4 introduces a standardised provision governing sanctions, while Amendment No 5 stipulates the frequency of the Commission report, in keeping with the other health and safety directives.
At the same time, any further initiatives will be examined in the light of new scientific knowledge.
May I also remind you that the gradual approach taken to the examination of the Commission proposal, starting with vibration, followed by noise and now electromagnetic fields, does not obviate the need for further work to be undertaken on the remaining physical agent included in the Commission’s initial proposal, by which I mean optical radiation. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I wish to tell the Commissioner that I am looking forward to meeting him tomorrow in order to exchange experiences and points of view concerning the social agenda.
We have set out in pursuit of two objectives.
The first is to produce a sound directive in this area that guarantees employees’ health and security.
The second objective has been to reach an agreement before the end of the term of office so that we do not keep putting off the issue.
I think that, through the amendments we have produced in the committee and for which we hope to obtain a hearing, we are highlighting some important matters.
I consider this perhaps to be the most important proposal among the amendments now being tabled by our committee.
Because of the time-frame within which we are now working during the Irish presidency, in particular with regard to the upcoming elections in June, it was necessary to find a compromise and a consensus, which may not be suitable for everybody, and may not cover all the individual points that each Member wanted to see covered, but does allow for legislation to be put on the books to ensure that workers are protected in these new risks to which they are exposed.
In recent weeks the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs tabled five amendments which have been taken on board by Coreper and by the Council as a whole under the guidance of the Irish presidency.
I would ask all Members to endorse it and to support it so that we can move forward in this era of cooperation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, we have been looking forward to being able to put questions tomorrow in the committee.
It is of course a great pleasure after so many years to be able to put the finishing touches to this directive.
This is something I think we can learn from when preparing the future directives in this area.
I think, however, that our legislation has to be influenced by the fact that we at present see a number of examples of people who worked with radar in the seventies and eighties and who now appear to be following a pattern of developing cancer.
I think it is very important for the next Parliament to have a practical basis on which to proceed further. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I merely wished to say that, in the last point, I repeated that scientific developments on the long-term effects will be assessed and, of course, any further initiatives will be examined on the basis of this scientific knowledge. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The European Women’s Lobby does not have a monopoly on representing, or on coordinating, women’s NGOs.
It is, therefore, only right and proper that other organisations should also receive an annual operating grant in the framework of the Community action programme, covering the period from 1&#160;January 2004 to 31&#160;December 2005.
The proposal is designed to provide a legal basis for continuing financial support for organisations working at European Union level to promote equality between men and women.
It is designed to increase legal clarity and transparency when granting subsidies in accordance with the new financial regulation.
It is very positive that the institutions worked closely together and arrived at a joint agreement on the basic issues of the duration of the programme and the level of central funding at the tripartite meeting in November 2003.
We all agree that the organisations in question play a crucial role in promoting Community policies in the area of equality between men and women.
It is quite simply because I want to take the opportunity to praise the work done by the European Women’s Lobby.
In particular, I think there is good cause for emphasising the need that exists for the European Women’s Lobby in connection with enlargement to include the new Member States, which quite obviously have other gender equality traditions than ourselves in the current Member States.
The debate is closed.
Of course, legislation cannot resolve all the problems and a great deal still needs to be done in order to wipe out pay differentials between men and women.
This idea was supported by the European Council in Nice, which called on the Commission to strengthen rights relating to equality by approving a proposal for a directive on the basis of Article 13 of the Treaty.
Consequently, the present directive will mainly cover financial services which often require women to have a guarantor in order to obtain a loan, but not men.
Similarly housing, where single parent families, mainly women, face greater difficulties than men in renting accommodation and, of course, the insurance sector, mainly the car insurance, life assurance and pension sectors, as well as health insurance.
The proposal to ban discrimination between men and women with regard to access to goods and services is equivocal to the Council, Parliament and society in general.
It is equivocal because it questions established ideas in relation to the treatment of men and women, because it maintains that there are factors more important than gender when calculating premiums and because it implies that the approach which most insurance companies use today is basically unfair.
The preparatory work has been very hard work and very long, but it has brought us at last to the point where we can vote on the report.
It took three years before, in September last year, a proposal was submitted, and this, too, was given a very rough ride by the Commission.
Then, in September 2003, I, as rapporteur, organised a public hearing in order to gain broad public support for our cause.
What this means is that gender is certainly not the only factor in this; I believe that our approach to this equality directive cannot be based on economic factors to the exclusion of all others, and that this involves a purely political decision, the political will to declare ourselves in favour of equality or against it.
This directive is very feeble in comparison with the existing directive on the principle of equal treatment on grounds of race, which goes much further in its demands.
So let me thank Commissioner Diamantopoulou for taking this important step, while, at the same time, encouraging the Commission – through you, Commissioner Dimas – to delay no longer in adopting further proposals on comprehensive measures to combat sexual discrimination and to guarantee de facto equality in areas other than employment.
This directive is explicitly founded upon Article 13, inserted by the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997, and I do not share the view of certain members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market that it should have Article 95 as its basis.
Were that the case, I believe that it would have permitted access to the internal market in purely economic terms, and I am not sure that the Council would have allowed Parliament the power of codecision over it.
Gender must not be used as an actuarial factor in calculating premiums and benefits.
I would like to clarify that the calculation of premiums on the basis of risk is to continue to be possible, but that gender must not be included as a factor in these calculations.
In statistical discrimination, the average differences, established at a given point in time, between groups, in this case groups of men and groups of women, are made absolute as permanent assessment criteria for individuals.
Unfortunately, this statistical discrimination still occurs very frequently in the private insurance industry in a number of countries.
European anti-discrimination legislation is a patchwork which itself discriminates between the different grounds of discrimination.
A majority on the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market disagrees with this approach; the fact is that calculating risks is what insurance companies do, and where there are different levels of risk, these may be taken into account.
This is an area where both sexes, of course, share responsibility, and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has therefore decided that they must be treated equally in this respect.
The directive before us, however, is somewhat limited, yet is very important for equality between persons, and in itself represents a step forward.
We expect that this directive will bring greater solidarity and equality between the sexes.
This proposal for a directive does not target the calculation of premiums according to risk, but is solely concerned with the inclusion of sex as a factor in this calculation by the insurance companies.
Furthermore, not only does this directive concern women, it also concerns men.
The report concerned, which was intended to make it possible to strengthen the role of women and to combat discrimination between men and women in third countries, is an example that we must follow here, in our own back yard.
While EU law lays down the principle of equal treatment between women and men – and a directive has already been adopted to this end – this principle has always proved difficult to implement in practice.
Such inequality, however, is now criticised as a hindrance to European competitiveness and to achieving the Lisbon objectives, as stated in the Commission’s latest report on equality between men and women.
If I speak with some feeling on the matter it is because, on several occasions in my own life, I have experienced the kind of discrimination that this directive is intended to prevent.
I cannot, therefore, be accused of not promoting the implementation of the principle of equality between men and women by directives covering all fields.
I also, therefore, believe that there is a real moral and legal obligation to support this proposal for a directive establishing equal treatment between women and men in the access to and supply of goods and services.
Unfortunately, the Commission’s proposal does not take account of the fact that in the field of insurance there is a further directive that requires insurers set sufficiently prudent premiums, taking into account all future commitments.
Like the Commission, we wish to lay down the principle that the use of sex as a determining and discriminatory factor in the calculation of premiums for insurance purposes must be prohibited for new contracts concluded after the directive has been adopted.
This makes sense and is in the interests of all insured parties, especially since, as the Commission says in its short justification, ‘there is little evidence of the existence of consistent discriminatory practices in the area of the access to or supply of goods and services’.
The Commission says, in fact, that in the setting of rates, insurance companies should take into account criteria other than sex, such as lifestyle, behaviour or professional status.
I doubt whether such practice would be compatible with respect for private life, quite apart from the fact that it would cause new and manifold forms of discrimination between men and women.
I do not believe, for example, that the chemist would harass me for buying condoms or Viagra for my husband or my boyfriend.
I would not do this, as I do not have either, but let us drop all of these politically correct elements that are a waste of space in a legislative text. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, if there had been any doubt that this proposal for a directive were also about men and money, there was, in any case, no longer any such doubt when a number of jacket-clad men appeared on the rows furthest to the back during the discussion of this subject by the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities.
This means, for example, that women who cannot have children have to pay for those who can, while, from this insurance point of view, the children’s fathers do not participate in any form of financial solidarity at all.
I am of course in complete disagreement with the insurance industry.
I should therefore like to thank the former Commissioner for the work she has done in this area, and I now hope that it will get through the European Parliament and, subsequently, the Council.
I should like to say that, in my view, there is much more at stake than just this proposal, for it is in reality the future of the EU that is at issue.
The proposal demonstrates whether there is a link between words and action.
If – and this can perhaps be excused – we in the Commission, the Council and Parliament show that we cannot even remedy an area such as this, there is no chance of getting women also to vote in favour of the future EU. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to remind the House that we have been waiting a long time for this directive.
Although I see the Commission’s proposal for the progressive removal of discrimination as something of an admission of its inadequacy – we would have liked more than that – I do believe that, when we vote, we have to send a clear and unambiguous message in support of equality policy and against discrimination.
I would like us to be seen by the whole world as a beacon for equality policy; I want the EU, being such a great economic area, to set up a landmark, and our vote to carry a clear message. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this proposal is about the equal treatment of women and men in access to, and supply of, services, particularly about the actuarial problems in insurance services.
It has replaced the principle of equal treatment by equality of men and women, but that is not the issue.
The consequence of this change is that the text lacks coherence.
For example, Amendment No 19 stipulates that there shall be no sex discrimination, including less favourable treatment, also as a result of paternity.
The calculation of risks on the basis of life expectancy is based on outdated information and according to other male and female role models.
The premiums should therefore be based on solidarity between men and women.
Understandably, the insurance industry has asked for a derogation to be put in place for them, because the proposal requires them to make huge adjustments.
That, therefore, means that we need to go beyond working and professional regulations and in that sense, I can also largely support the Commission's proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in this debate, four key issues must be raised.
The first is the delay in tabling a proposal for a directive, as has already been mentioned here, to prohibit discrimination based on sex in fields other than work.
The second issue concerns the vastly reduced scope of the proposal presented by the Commission, which covers only access to goods and services and the supply of these, and excludes other fields, such as media and advertising content, education and decision-making processes.
Other areas, such as vocational training and social security, are covered by other directives, although we must look again at these areas in order to improve the content and to eliminate discrimination based on sex in all areas, particularly in occupational social security schemes.
Unequal treatment between women and men must be prohibited in all areas of the supply of goods and services.
The rapporteur, whom I should like to congratulate on her work, states that the right to equal treatment belongs to the citizen as an individual and not as a member of a group.
We must strive to fully implement, at the earliest possible opportunity, the processes that are still lacking. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed these interventions with a great deal of interest and I should like to thank the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, as well as the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for their contributions to the report being debated.
I refer to Amendments Nos 3, 4, 5 part three and part four, 6, 7, 8, 12, 17, 20, 23 part one, 25 part one, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33 and 43.
I should also like to thank the Committee on Women’s Rights on its proposed Amendment No 15, which clarifies the dividing line between private pensions and occupational pensions, which are covered by existing directives on employment.
The above amendments are also in keeping with the discussions held in the Council.
We cannot support a number of other amendments, even though they are constructive, because they deviate from similar provisions in current directives and because we believe that it would be preferable to maintain the same approach for reasons of cohesion.
I refer mainly to Amendments Nos 16, 19, 21, 24, 25, 28, 29, 34 and 40.
The Commission proposal focuses on a specific sector, the goods and services sector.
Finally, as far as Amendments Nos 35 and 36 in Article 4 of the proposal are concerned, we cannot agree to amendments designed to allow the use of gender-based actuarial factors.
They reflect statistics on the average population, but these statistics are misleading because they conceal the fact that other factors relating to life style are more important than gender.
In fact, studies have shown that 86% of men and women have the same life expectancy.
In this group of 86%, a woman is treated differently from a man under the same conditions, purely and simply because an inaccurate generalisation is made about the life expectancy of all women.
As regards Amendments Nos 10, 22 and 41, which propose on the one hand, a reduction in the transitional period of six years provided for in Article 4 for gender-based actuarial factors and on the other, stricter monitoring requirements during that period, we do not agree with them because we believe that we cannot expect the insurance sector to adapt from one day to the next and because we consider that the additional six-year period provided for in Article 4 is needed in order to develop working methods for using other, more accurate factors than gender.
As regards the amendments which propose replacing the term ‘application of the principle of equal treatment of men and women’ with the term ‘application of equality between men and women’ throughout the proposal, we cannot support these amendments because this would go beyond the legal basis of Article 13 of the Treaty.
Although Article 3, paragraph 2 of the Treaty makes provision for the Community to aim to promote equality between men and women in all its activities, this provision cannot change the nature of the legal basis of Article 13 of the Treaty.
I refer to Amendments Nos 1, 5 parts one and two, 11, 18, 23 part two and 42.
Finally, Mr President, regarding the last proposed amendment, Amendment No 45, which proposes that the Member States engage in dialogue with non-governmental organisations working to combat discrimination and the social partners, we agree in principle but we believe that the wording should be broad enough to cover all the agencies involved, because there are other organisations which represent social agents, such as consumer associations, social organisations and so on.
I am sorry I had to overrun my speaking time, but at least the good news is that we see that we men shall live approximately the same number of years as women. &#160;&#160; By all means, Commissioner.
That is why the present directive is based on Article 13 of the Treaty, in a bid to combat gender-based discrimination.
The objective of the directive is not to legislate to regulate the operating terms of the internal market and, as such, Article 95 is not a suitable legal basis. &#160;&#160; Thank you for that clarification of the law, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (1) The Commission can accept the following amendments: 2, 3, 4, 7, 9, 12, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 29, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 71, 72, 73, 74, 77, 78, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 90, 94, 95, 96, 97, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 106, 107, 108, 111, 112, 114, 115, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 128, 137, 139, 140, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151, 152, 153, 154, 155, 157, 158 and 164 to 209.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 22, 28, 30, 31, 43, 50, 51, 59, 67, 68, 69, 70, 75, 76, 79, 89, 91, 92, 93, 98, 105, 109, 110, 113, 116, 117, 127, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 138, 156, 159, 160, 161, 162 or 163.
