Environmental quality standards in the field of water policy (debate) The next item is the debate on the report by Anne Laperrouze, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy and amending Directive 2000/60/EC C6-0243/2006.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Laperrouze, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for its considerable efforts.
The chemical cocktail in our waters has become more complex and the sources of pollution are no longer concentrated at one point but are widespread and diffuse.
To tackle the pollution problems caused by these dangerous substances the Commission has proposed or adopted more than 30 Community acts since the Water Framework Directive was agreed.
First, the Commission has banned or restricted the marketing and use of 16 of the priority substances of the Water Framework Directive.
As you know, for marine waters the proposed Marine Strategy Directive will ensure the same level of protection regarding hazardous substances pollution in areas where the Water Framework Directive does not apply.
In addition, the proposal identifies two additional priority hazardous substances and repeals several directives which were adopted between 1982 and 1990.
The Commission published its first implementation report for the Water Framework Directive on 22 March 2007, World Water Day.
This directive therefore sets limits in terms of the concentration in surface waters of certain types of pesticides, heavy metals and other chemical substances that endanger aquatic flora and fauna and human safety.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Laperrouze for her outstanding cooperation on what is a technical and difficult dossier, albeit one that is of great importance in terms of the 27-Member Europe, since the efforts at harmonisation serve also to prevent distortions of competition within Europe.
The proposed directive sets limits on concentration in surface water of a number of substances including some pesticides, heavy metals and other dangerous chemicals and substances already mentioned by the rapporteur.
However, for the sake of compromise, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament accepted the proposal made by our rapporteur, Mrs Laperrouze - to whom I should like to pay tribute for her sterling work and personal commitment - and withdrew its amendment.
The objective was included in the OSPAR Convention and in the revised Barcelona Convention.
In the vote tomorrow, however, we, in the European Parliament, are the ones who must ensure that the EU complies with the objectives in the OSPAR Convention and the Water Framework Directive.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, first of all, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Laperrouze, for the work she has done.
I should like to see a derogation for these of the kind provided for in Article 4 of the framework directive on water.
In order to make these changes, we in the Independence and Democracy Group have tabled two amendments, Amendments 66 and 67, which I trust you will support. (SK) I would like to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur, Mrs Laperrouze, for her report on water policy.
The pollution of European water by pesticides and other chemicals is very serious.
I therefore warmly welcome the introduction of the Environmental Quality Standards, which will become binding on all 27 EU Member States.
The implementation of these measures in the European Union will be ineffective as long as polluted water continues flowing into EU Member States from third countries.
This directive finally takes into account the carrying capacity of natural bodies of water and, moreover, would ban 70 dangerous substances, including for instance pesticides, detergents, and solvents as well as heavy metals.
In 2005 the water supply of Galway was identified as being at very high risk, and now today households cannot use water in Galway.
Another factor contributing to the water problem in Ireland is the waste effluent from factories like Aughinish Alumina, County Limerick, which has been a major source of pollution to the local and surrounding area with its toxic red mud deposits leaking into the water supply.
We hope that this directive will ensure high-quality water for the Irish people. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I rejoice that we are now at last deliberating on the last foundational piece of legislation needed for a comprehensive European policy on water provision and also for the implementation of the Water Framework Directive.
I would like, in particular, to express my support for Mr Sturdy's Amendment 75, which highlights the need for technical feasibility and, in particular, the avoidance of disproportionate costs.
As it happens, Slovakia, like the neighbouring Czech Republic, has had the unfortunate experience of a massive pollution of water, including ground water, in connection with the deployment of the Soviet armed forces that occupied the country for 21 long years.
I should like first of all to congratulate Mrs Laperrouze on the excellent work that she has done in relation to this complex and highly technical matter.
I am particularly pleased with the vote cast in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, since 12 of the 21 amendments that were tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have been adopted.
I understand that the Environment Committee proposes, in amendments 65, 68 and 78, the addition to the priority list of 30 new chemicals not previously included in the Water Framework Directive.
In summary, on the proposed daughter directive, I am pleased to say that the Commission can support 30 amendments fully, in part or in principle.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 22 May.
Annex - Position of the Commission Laperrouze report There are 30 amendments that the Commission can support fully, in part, or in principle.
The amendments which the Commission cannot support are numbers: 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 19, 20, 26, 27, 28, 32, 33, 37, 39, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 80, 81, 82 and 83.
