These are: - the oral question to the Council on the progress made in the area of freedom, security and justice (Articles 2 and 39 of the EU Treaty), by Jean-Marie Cavada, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (O-0086/2006 B6-0428/2006), and - the Council and Commission statements on the common immigration policy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Rajamäki, Mr&#160;Frattini, fellow Members, before replying to the oral question, allow me briefly to thank you publicly, Mr&#160;Rajamäki, for organising the Tampere ministerial meeting, which took place in really excellent conditions.
Broadly speaking, it is enough for there to be a combination of mutual confidence and the right political conditions in order for this decision to be taken.
Oddly enough, this bridging clause has never so far been activated because transfer to the ordinary legislative procedure was determined directly by the Treaty of Amsterdam when it came to asylum and immigration policies and to judicial cooperation on civil matters and then by the Treaty of Nice, which facilitated transfer to the codecision procedure in the case of these policies that had been communitised.
For the European Parliament, the answer is clearly in the affirmative, and for three reasons.
Let us quickly consider these three points.
There is a serious deficit when that does not happen.
Where EU legislation is concerned, the judge in question should, logically, sit in the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
However, Article&#160;67 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and Article&#160;35 of the Treaty on European Union introduce such limitations on the competence of that jurisdiction that the judges themselves have expressed doubts as to whether certain legislation relating to the second and third pillars respects the principle of the rule of law.
As we all know, the need to maintain unanimity prevents rapid and effective decision-making of any kind, and this at a time when the seriousness of the threats to the EU since the attacks of 11&#160;September and those on Madrid and London should encourage a much more rapid decision-making process.
That is something to hope for, but can we afford to await the outcome of this whole process, which will, at the very least, take two to three years when there are ongoing security threats and a permanent question mark over our freedoms?
Admittedly, the bridging clause will require ratification by the national parliaments, and that could enable those who are more hesitant to gain a bit of time.
I would first like to thank Mr&#160;Cavada and Mr&#160;Gargani for their enormous contribution at Tampere.
The policy line taken at the European Council in Tampere in 1999 means that there have to continue to be high levels of cooperation between the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council.
The Finnish Presidency wants to promote the new Tampere spirit.
The protection of fundamental rights is a priority.
All the Member States are parties to the European Convention on Human Rights, and the work of the Council constantly reflects the importance of guaranteeing that the principles contained in it are upheld.
This also obviously applies to such sensitive issues as combating terrorism.
I would emphasise that these values are acknowledged in all areas, both in internal action and in relations with third countries.
Discussions on a Council Regulation establishing the proposed Fundamental Rights Agency of the European Union have begun, and the work has now reached an important phase.
Last autumn, we had constructive talks on the Data Retention Directive, in what was a difficult situation, to look at its technical, legal and financial aspects.
We aim to conclude the first reading of the proposal during the current six-month term.
The Council is now carefully considering the European Parliament’s opinion on this proposal.
The Schengen evaluation process launched at the beginning of this year has already made it possible to carry out comprehensive evaluations of police and visa cooperation in the new Member States, as well as data protection at land and sea borders and at airports.
Some time ago, we received a report from the Commission concerning the delayed technical progress of the SIS II system.
European Council policy means that we have an obligation and a desire to examine what we might be able to do to accelerate preparations for abolishing checks at internal borders.
The Finnish Presidency has promoted the drafting of the legislation on SIS II together with the European Parliament, and hopefully we will reach consensus on this in October.
I would like to thank Parliament’s rapporteur, Mr&#160;Coelho, for his tough but resolute approach to finding a joint solution.
In a high-level working group in the Council, we also agreed on practical measures to try and improve coordination of the SIS II project and cooperation between national projects and preparations for the central system, which is the responsibility of the Commission.
At next week’s Council meeting, we will be discussing the new technical preparations timetable for the SIS II project and any realistic alternative solutions that we might have at our disposal.
This should lay the groundwork for setting a target date for removing internal border controls at the December Council and in the European Council.
The Treaty already contains provisions on procedures to help assess interpretations of cases under Title IV of the Treaty or the legality or interpretation of acts adopted by the Community’s institutions.
The Presidency regards this as an important issue.
As we know, the citizens of the EU quite rightly expect the European Union to be able to engage in more effective cooperation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
At the same time, we have to ensure that fundamental rights and freedoms are respected.
By virtue of the Treaty on European Union, the Council, acting unanimously and having consulted the European Parliament, may adopt the use of the bridging clause provided for in Article&#160;42 TEU, and ‘communitarise’ police cooperation and cooperation on crime either entirely or partially.
Last week in Tampere, an important debate was held on this subject between representatives of the Member States, the Commission and the European Parliament, and I particularly want to draw attention to the view firmly expressed there by Mr&#160;Cavada in the Council of Ministers, which reflects not only my own opinion but that of the European Parliament too.
It was a very important addition to our debate.
We are determined to continue the work in this area in accordance with the European Council’s conclusions.
In order for progress in legal and internal matters to be visible in public security as well, we need to ensure that these acts are fully integrated into the legal systems of the Member States.
Not all the Member States have yet ratified the Protocols to the Europol Convention.
The Council has regularly reminded Member States of the importance of this matter.
The Presidency can announce that Finland will adopt actions nationally in the near future that will permit it to become a signatory to the Prüm Treaty.
This fulfils the minimum requirement for initiating enhanced cooperation pursuant to Article&#160;43 of the Treaty on European Union.
As the country to hold the Presidency, we will work towards making the Prüm Treaty part of the European Union’s legal system.
The Council will continue its discussion on the Framework Decision on procedural rights on the basis of the Commission’s initiative.
In June, the Council decided to continue its work on the basis of the compromise proposal put forward by the Presidency.
We are likewise aiming to bring to a conclusion the first reading of the proposal as regards its main content during the current six-month term.
The European Union has developed a joint policy on immigration, border control and asylum on the basis of the Tampere European Council and the Hague Programme.
It takes full account of human and fundamental rights, including the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the right to seek asylum in the European Union.
Member States and their authoritative bodies are responsible for controlling their external borders and immigration and carrying out asylum-seeking procedures.
This was the case both at the July Council and at the informal ministerial meeting in Tampere last week.
Recent events in the Canary Islands and the Mediterranean highlight the destiny that the countries of Europe share and the need for commitment on the part of all the Member States.
It is essential that the Union’s institutions – the European Parliament, the European Agency for the Management of Operational Co-operation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (Frontex), the Commission, and other competent bodies – act in a spirit of cooperation and coordination.
Under the initiative, in return for a financial contribution from the EU, procedures would be put in place to ensure that Member States adhere to jointly agreed rules and take responsibility for illegal immigrants and asylum seekers entering their territory.
The debate on the President’s initiative is to continue, on the basis of the very positive discussions at Tampere.
The crisis in the Mediterranean now at last shows us how important external relations are in the fight against illegal migration.
The Global Approach to Migration and the principal measures focusing on Africa and the Mediterranean region, adopted by the European Council last December, provide a common framework within which the EU can act.
This will strengthen cooperation between the Member States and increase dialogue with the countries of Africa and cooperation in the Mediterranean region as a whole.
The European Council has asked the Commission to report back on the progress made by the end of this year.
The Presidency is promoting these initiatives, as well as the very important Commission proposal for a Regulation for establishing Rapid Border Intervention Teams (the ‘Rabit’ Regulation).
In order to fulfil the aims on illegal immigration set out at Tampere, a number of acts have already been passed which apply to the status of people long resident in a country, family reunification, granting residence permits to the victims of human trafficking, and admission for the purposes of study, vocational training, voluntary work and scientific research.
The Council is working towards an agreement at first reading with the European Parliament on these important instruments.
The Presidency realises that the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and the Council on common standards and procedures in Member States for returning third country nationals who are illegally resident is very important for a common repatriation policy, but we are also aware of the issues that have to be resolved in order to reach a compromise on the proposals within a reasonable period of time.
The Commission is to draft a Green Paper on the future of the common European asylum system.
This was also discussed at Tampere.
Practical cooperation between Member States on asylum issues also needs to be reinforced.
The Council is expecting the Commission to put forward its proposal on this matter.
The Council is also expecting the Commission to put forward a legislative proposal in the near future with regard to extending long-term residential status to refugees and to those who have gained subsidiary protection status.
Increased transparency in the work of the Union is a key aim.
In June, the European Council agreed on measures to enhance transparency.
The Finnish Presidency stresses the vital importance of transparency, and proposes actively to take forward the debate on transparency on the basis of the Green Paper.
The transparency banner was also waved vigorously at Tampere.
Finally, with regard to the secret detention facilities mentioned in a speech by the President of the United States of America in early September, I wish to reassure Parliament that the Council is aware of the possible implications.
At a sitting of the General Affairs and External Relations Council in September, ministers expressed their commitment to combating terrorism effectively using all the legal means and tools available to them.
Human rights and humanitarian standards have to be adhered to in the fight against terrorism.
As I said at a meeting in August in London, not one victory must go to terrorism or to their efforts to undermine our fundamental rights and values.
At the JHA Council in July, I said that I thought it was essential that the Member States should also encourage a report on CIA flights carrying prisoners to be produced, in order to strengthen the basis of more confidential and viable cooperation on security.
When you get a chance to speak to such an agreeable gathering, you can feel like saying a bit too much, but I would like to say in conclusion that our citizens expect the European Union to deliver security, more effective decision-making and the ability to respond to new challenges as a matter of course.
They will also insist that we should be able to fight organised crime and terrorism and control migration flows and our common external borders effectively.
It is our responsibility and a challenge to parliamentary competence, both in the European Parliament and the national parliaments, to respond together to the demand being made of Europe that it should be a fair and safe place for everyone to live. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr&#160;Rajamäki.
The Council and the Commission have no time limit.
The strategic political goal remains striking the right balance between improving citizens’ security and promoting and defending people’s individual rights.
It is clear that the fight against terrorism and the management of migration flows are currently the main priorities for the European Union.
As I stressed in Tampere, I consider that our efforts in the fight against terrorism at European level need to focus on key areas such as fighting radicalisation and recruitment, the misuse of the internet by terrorists, the prevention and detection of the misuse of explosives, the protection of critical infrastructures, bio-preparedness and transport security.
I am also convinced that any new security measure, especially in relation to air transport, should not bring about a disproportionate reaction which, in my view, would hand victory to terrorism.
The fight against terrorism and the defence of individual rights should go hand in hand.
As regards migration, the Commission decided to set up a Commissioners’ Group on Migration Issues.
That comprehensive approach involves legal and illegal immigration, as well as integration.
Solidarity, in the form of financial support and the deployment of experts and equipment to our shared borders, is also an essential element of this approach.
While the focus is clearly on migration from Africa, such an approach has to take into account migratory movement from other regions of the world, particularly from our eastern neighbours, some of the countries from which many kinds of illegal trafficking originate.
In the field of illegal immigration, we have, as you know, recently taken many practical measures, particularly in relation to migration flows affecting southern Member States of the European Union.
Frontex, in particular, has been very active in coordinating assistance to the Member States in question, for example the Canary Islands, and further operations are planned in the short term in the central Mediterranean area.
Solidarity means practical help to Member States under pressure.
I hope that Parliament will agree to a further increase in the financial envelope.
The Commission has also adopted a package of measures to help Mauritania in its efforts to contain the flow of illegal migrants to the Canary Islands under the Rapid Reaction Mechanism.
As regards the management of the southern external maritime border, I presented to the informal Tampere Council a set of recommendations for operational measures to be taken in the short term, that is, before the summer of 2007.
Those recommendations include: firstly, the setting-up of an operational command centre in the relevant regions to coordinate a Mediterranean coastal patrol network; secondly, exploring the establishment of a European surveillance system in order to link up the existing national surveillance systems; thirdly, making the pooling of assets a reality with equipment made available by all Member States to be put at the disposal, at short notice, of a Member State requesting assistance; fourthly, exploring options for the creation of a team of asylum experts in close cooperation with international organisations, above all the United Nations; fifthly, making the maximum and best use of current and future financial instruments.
The above measures aim to strengthen the Community’s capacity to manage and prevent the kind of situations we have seen this year, and should be taken in parallel with the implementation of the global approach on migration adopted by the European Council last December.
That means, as recently stressed by President Barroso and by myself at Tampere, it is of the utmost importance that all Member States continue working together in a spirit of solidarity, not least to assist those southern Member States most affected today by illegal immigration from Africa.
Addressing migration in a comprehensive manner also entails developing a structural approach and reinforcing the inclusion of migration in European external policies.
The Commission is making serious efforts to make migration an integral part of its development policy and is engaging in particular with African countries on this matter.
Refugee protection is another important part of my portfolio and I am happy to announce to you that two specific regional programmes will start in the coming weeks.
Obviously, Member States would have to take immediate measures in this direction, so as to address the issue of illegal work.
The Commission is convinced of the necessity of a common approach to managing economic migration as an additional means of achieving the Lisbon objectives and tackling the negative effects of demographic ageing, in order to foster the European economy and competitiveness.
The idea of proposing a directive on the conditions for admission to the European Union for highly skilled workers, including the possibility of a European green card, responds to this economic necessity.
Europe continues to receive low-skilled or unskilled labour only, while the United States, Canada and Australia, for example, are able to attract talented migrants.
A proposal for a directive on the rights of legal migrants in employment constitutes the other pillar of the Commission’s policy in this field for the next year.
I strongly hope that after the Council in Luxembourg has endorsed this global European approach towards migration, the same European common approach will also be approved at the highest political level by the European Council in Lahti.
All the Member States, even those that are still reluctant, agreed on the need to move forward.
We will be among the first to welcome a positive outcome of the exploration the German Presidency intends to carry out in 2007 and we will give them our full support.
Nevertheless, we have to prepare ourselves for a situation where the ‘passerelle’ clause may be the only way to address the urgent need that all of us share.
Practitioners, judges, prosecutors and police authorities also want more effective instruments to fight organised crime and terrorism.
To be frank, we cannot allow civil society to move faster than our political strategies and policies.
Cooperation with transit countries and countries of origin, and support given to them, are part of the solution, but what is also needed is an integrated approach, for immigration needs to be regulated, and that cannot be a matter for internal policy alone; solutions can be found only by joint efforts across various policy areas.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has for a long time been calling for immigration policy that takes account of the needs and rights of other Member States.
For example, one cannot go ahead with a mass legalisation without informing or consulting others, only to seek help from the EU once that action begins to suck other migrants in.
There are certainly many problems that affect us all, but at least an equal number that are specifically national, regional or even local in character.
The last time I took the floor of this House to speak in a debate on internal and security policy was when I spoke on the European arrest warrant and the plan for a European Public Prosecutor’s office, following which I had an enormous row with the President-in-Office of the Council.
Mrs Klamt made an important point when she said that we must not, where integration or the processing of asylum applications are concerned, interfere with the powers of national, local and regional authorities, but nor can we tolerate a situation in which Community rules and regulations are indispensable yet not forthcoming.
The reason why they are refusing to do it is that these policy areas – the security of external borders, asylum, the law on citizenship, freedom of establishment and movement, police and justice policy – give them an opportunity to say to their citizens: ‘It is we – not anyone else – who hold the reins of power in this state.’ For fifteen years, the states have shrunk back from the abrogation of sovereignty that the transfer of such rights to the European Union represents, and I can understand why they do, for it involves, to a degree, the surrender of national power, but this surrender of a bit of power must be weighed against the prospect of migration, people-trafficking, uncontrolled immigration and the problems associated with them being allowed to drag on even longer.
We will continue with a policy like a push-bike when what we need is a Ducati.
In the early period of building the European Union, political leaders were ahead of public opinion.
I want Mr Frattini and the Presidency to take to the Council on 6 October the message that Europe demands better. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has been in favour of these topics becoming part of Community procedure ever since the Treaty of Maastricht invented the pillar system, which in theory was only meant to be temporary but in reality has proved to be fairly definitive.
Procedures are not everything, however, and I wonder what policy will now be implemented on these topics by Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
The priority seems to be that of reducing, rejecting, constraining and eliminating, and it is curious to note that this debate began with the Commissioner speaking about terrorism and maintaining that security must be our top priority.
Frankly, Commissioner, I do not like it when you overuse the word ‘solidarity’, especially when you mean ‘helping the Member States to refuse entry at the borders to people who arrive in a desperate state, without any rights’.
Mr&#160;Frattini, Mr&#160;Rajamäki, I do not know whether it is true that the majority of the illegal immigrants who come to our countries have no qualifications.
I know of cases of history teachers and electricians: qualified people who come here but who cannot find jobs for qualified workers, because they obviously become mixed up with people who have no qualifications whatsoever; in my opinion, saying that the problem is one of depriving developing countries of people who can, instead, help those countries to get out of their underdeveloped state is the wrong message for the European Union to be sending out.
Finally, Mr&#160;Rajamäki, Mr&#160;Frattini, I should like it if you could give your ideas on the topic of agreements with third countries.
Personally, I should like it if he were to spend a little time explaining what kind of democracy and publicity is required for agreements such as this one. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that, after the failure of last week's Informal Summit in Tampere, the decision has been taken not only to stop pedalling, but perhaps also to lean the bicycle against the wall.
Today’s debate also shares this characteristic: the fight against terrorism, the CIA flights, PNR and police cooperation are all being mixed up with immigration.
Only when we realise that the topic of immigration must be dissociated from repressive policies, measures to criminalise migrants and the methods used to combat terrorism and organised crime will it then be possible to hold a serious debate on a common European Union policy on immigration.
This is the case in Spain and Italy too, even allowing for the numbers of migrants who arrive in the Canary Islands or Lampedusa.
Europe cannot become known for turning immigrants away , nor can we allow the Atlantic and the Mediterranean to become open-air cemeteries.
When it comes to holding a serious debate on immigration, this is probably the most powerful, most practical gesture that Europe can now make. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already taken the floor on many occasions in this House in order to stress the urgent need for a common immigration policy, and I am pleased to note the recent initiatives undertaken at Community level and the recent release of funds intended for crisis-hit countries.
The gradual realisation on the part of the Member States – which are now convinced, albeit belatedly perhaps, of the countless tragic deaths in the Mediterranean – that migration no longer just affects the States on the edge of the EU and that the general objectives of economic growth can only be achieved within a general climate of security is anything but trivial.
This is a real commitment, and it is also demonstrated by the increased financial resources that the EU will make available over the next seven years for the purposes of consolidating an area of freedom, security and justice.
Another positive aspect is the creation of a specific programme aimed at controlling migratory flows with funds intended for repatriations, refugees and integration.
Equally important is the creation of a border management agency, which unfortunately still does not have enough staff, but I hope that it will gradually benefit from more attention and funds.
It is widely known these days not only that legalisations do not allow problems to be resolved without immigrants' circumstances being improved, but that they nearly always exacerbate them instead, merely encouraging marginalisation and widespread crime, which often result in terrorism.
A common market with a shared space in which citizens can move freely requires consistent security of its external borders and regulated access to that space.
If the Spanish authorities can give 700&#160;000 illegal immigrants an amnesty without consulting other Member States, then Spain cannot expect help from other Member States.
I should like to hear from the Council and Commission what they intend to do in order to dispel this uncertainty. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, by regularising the status of one and a half million illegal immigrants in 2005, Spain and Italy have provoked a huge influx of people from Africa, the continent nearest to Western Europe and something of a suburb of Paris.
Spain, rightly accused of irresponsibility in regularising the status of illegal immigrants, argues in response that the majority of Africans arriving in the Canaries – 25&#160;000 since the beginning of the year – are French speakers whose intention it is to travel on to other countries.
A European Union in one decade is impossible without an immigration policy.
It is impossible to conceive of a United States of America with as many immigration policies as it has States.
It is impossible to accept that with regard to an emerging phenomenon such as Islamic terrorism – which has dared to move on from placing bombs on a bus to placing bombs on a plane, from attacking cartoons to directly attacking the Pope, that is, an emerging phenomenon – the European Union and its institutions do not yet have a political role that the citizens can see.
We are of, course, in favour of communitising the whole of the third pillar, particularly where legal immigration is concerned – a process that will finally help stop a number of Member States from blocking matters.
I also wish to raise the issue of the agreement on transferring personal data in connection with flights, otherwise known as the Passenger Names Records (PNR) agreement.
I should like, in this connection, to address a remark to the Council and point out that the European Parliament is now awaiting a firm commitment from the Council regarding the framework decision on data protection.
At the Tampere ministerial meeting, the Council appears to have gone back on the strong commitments on immigration made by the European Union seven years ago, particularly when it comes to putting in place a common immigration policy and common asylum system between now and 2010.
My group emphasises that better management of the external borders can only be one aspect of our common immigration policy.
No one can remain indifferent to the difficulties and the humanitarian crisis presented at our borders, particularly in southern Europe, or to the huge influx of migrants and asylum seekers.
We also want to see partnerships implemented with the countries of origin and transit, based above all on respect for both fundamental rights and the right of asylum.
We must not, however, in any instance allow our borders to be controlled externally.
We want a comprehensive and transversal approach to immigration problems.
The fight against illegal immigration must be accompanied by practical proposals, whether they be in favour of opening legal immigration channels or of real and effective co-development.
We must fight against the underlying causes of migration in the shape of poverty and conflicts.
We propose, for example, putting in place financial support for immigrants in their countries of origin.
To conclude, we want to see active exchange between countries of the North and those of the South and to be made aware of how the proposals in this area put forward in Rabat will be put into practice. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the immigration problem is one of the biggest challenges to face us so far in 2006, one would think that all Member States would have been aware of the urgency of this problem by now, but nothing seems to be further from the truth.
Frontex is the key word, but it relies on the resources and manpower supplied by the Member States, and those resources are still extremely limited.
We must look at the reasons why immigrants choose to leave their countries in droves.
A few years ago, the idea of reaching the Canaries in small motor boats would have been absolutely unthinkable.
European Union policy has entered an absolutely vicious circle.
We are buying third countries’ collaboration in supervising their own frontiers, that is to say we are shutting migrants into their own countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Frattini, Mr&#160;Rajamäki, the thousands of people who have died in the Atlantic and the Mediterranean have made a mistake, and that is to have been born people.
They have committed the terrible crime of leaving their countries to escape hunger or war and to try to live in peace.
Indeed, there are many indications in the press that similar camps probably exist in other countries.
It is therefore incumbent on us to place this matter at the top of our agenda. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the ability to control one’s borders and decide who should be a citizen in your country is one of the most basic characteristics of a nation state, and in that regard the UK is very lucky because we are not part of the continent of Europe.
This debate goes to the very heart of what the EU is all about, and it is becoming perfectly obvious that no nation can control its own borders, decide its own immigration policy, and at the same time remain part of the European Union.
The Zapatero government in Spain has done the same, legalising 700&#160;000 illegal immigrants.
In Italy, however, the Prodi government has gone further, even altering Community law by making it possible to claim political asylum even in situations that do not fulfil the strict criteria, which we endorse and which are legally required for recognition of political asylum – a fundamental aspect of the freedoms associated with human rights.
The privileges of political asylum are even granted to immigrants who do not come from unsafe countries where human rights are not respected, or from war zones.
I hope it will be possible to vote quickly for a compromise at first reading providing us with the legal instrument needed to implement the second generation of SIS.
I should also like to congratulate the Finnish Presidency for including the issue of immigration in the priorities for the forthcoming European Council.
Hopefully, the Council will respond favourably to our request to broaden the codecision process to cover legal immigration and integration.
We want to see more democratic legitimacy and a common European approach to migration that is based on the principles of cohesion and solidarity and that covers the integration of immigrants living legally in Europe.
Frontex, for example, must not be deprived of the financial resources it needs to carry out its work.
Lastly, immigration policy must cover the unremitting fight against illegal immigration and against the trafficking of human beings, the return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin, the opening up of channels for legal immigration, and cooperation and support for the development of countries of origin.
Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, we must condemn the extraordinary mass regularisation of immigrants, as happened in Spain in May of last year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr&#160;Cavada, who has inspired a debate on an absolutely crucial issue: the area of freedom, security and justice.
Minister, seven years have passed since Tampere.
I believe that this year the Commission has begun to react seriously and the assistance of a number of countries has contributed to that, particularly the countries most affected: the countries of the South.
I believe that that is also important.
On the subject of immigration, Günther Beckstein, the Bavarian Interior Minister, made a disastrous error when he claimed that it would not be too much to expect Spain to take in 25&#160;000 people, for what matters is not whether or not it is reasonable that they should be expected; the real point is that the fate of people – people in desperate need – waiting offshore, is at stake.
We cannot leave the responsibility for dealing with this issue solely to the Spanish or Canary Islands authorities.
In particular, we have fought for legal certainty, which is of course protection in relation to the police and other forces of the state, especially for society’s underprivileged.
Moreover, none of the EU’s institutions has shown an ability to implement the eminently necessary change of course.
The first is that, without having committed crimes on the scale of the United States – with Guantánamo and other torture centres around the world – the EU and the Member States commit outrages every day against both terrorist suspects and refugees who have no rights.
Only in acknowledging this will the necessary legal policy acquire any meaning. &#160;&#160; If, seven years after the adoption of a programme for strengthening the European Union’s external borders in order to check uncontrolled immigration, the task still remains undone, it is clear that the European Union’s common immigration policy is still a matter for the future.
The fact that unemployment indicators also maintain the same trend amongst immigrants from second-world countries demonstrates that the task of integrating immigrants does not form part of Member States’ immigration policies.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, fellow Members, we have heard Mr&#160;Frattini complain about our not being able to protect Europe’s southern borders, rightly pointing out that an illegal immigrant who succeeds in getting into Spain or Italy can be in Lille or Hamburg within a day, and heard him propose, like Mr&#160;Sarkozy, that the right of veto be completely abolished.
The Commission is now freezing the readmission agreements between Member States and interfering in family reunification policies and even wishes to bring in 25 million additional immigrants to curb the population decline.
No, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to takes turns in power for 30 years and then, as soon as the elections come along, make out that one is not responsible for the current situation.
Moreover, we are also supposed to go further in the headlong flight towards federalism.
It is inexplicable, in my view, that they will be subject to border police controls for a further two to three years.
If it is incapable of getting the conditions in place for the Schengen area then it is incompetent.
If it is simply hiding behind technical difficulties and wants to defer freedom of movement, then it is not to be trusted.
I dusted my 1999 speech down, Mr Schulz left the Chamber after his speech, various other things remain just the same as they were seven years ago.
In this particular area, at a time of great terrorist threat – and there were terrorist threats in 1999 as well – there is a very uncertain message being sent out that the Presidency and the Commission and, regrettably, too many of those sitting in this House then and now seem to think that the most pressing need is to bring in the under Article 42.
I have always had reservations about imposing a single model of justice on countries where there are different legal systems evolving in different ways.
The Council is due to present its mid-term review of The Hague Programme at the end of the year.
As Piet Hein Donner, the midwife of the programme, has said, the first principle is the implementation of mutual recognition as the fundament for judicial cooperation.
The programme is founded on the assumption of cooperation.
I believe that is a practical and sensible approach, one which is showing signs of success and I urge the Presidency and the Commission to proceed on those lines. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, on such a sensitive subject, we really must avoid having a dialogue in which nobody listens.
The first point of reference is the subject of immigration, which is a challenge for us all.
We need only think about what happened this summer: once again, tens of thousands of people landed on Lampedusa and the Canaries, or it would be better to say that they arrived in Europe.
Spain, Italy and sometimes Cyprus and Greece have often been merely gateways through which these people pour in, as they do not just stay by the gates.
Such a policy is needed not in order to do any particular Member State a favour, but because the Union as a whole is involved.
The third point of reference is more positive, however: we have to acknowledge that we are facing a new challenge for our civilisation to address.
It is not a marginal issue that only affects a few of us, but a new commitment that the Union needs to adopt as one of the new Millennium goals, and we have already clearly spelt out what that means.
There is no common EU policy on migration.
If that is so, how come foreign ministers were unable recently to make any formal response to President Bush’s admission of CIA secret prisons, just as they were unable to do anything about Guantánamo for four years?
The 8&#160;million richest people in the world have a net fortune equivalent to 80% of the GDP of all the countries in the world. - In other words, what is needed is a policy that uses the human race’s ample resources, means and advances in science and technology to effectively resolve the problems facing the peoples of the world.
This policy should be diametrically opposed to that of neoliberalism, militarism and failure to respect the sovereignty of peoples and countries. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in the context of the problems related to the immigration process raised in today’s question, attention has been drawn, amongst other issues, to the lack of mutual trust between Member States of the European Union.
This mistrust and suspicion almost automatically affects relationships with third countries, such as the United States, which is Europe’s natural ally in the war on terrorism.
Such an attitude hampers the establishment of clear legal provisions in these areas.
It is hard to agree with the view expressed today by Commissioner&#160;Frattini, namely that the protection of fundamental rights and fighting terrorism ought to go hand in hand.
Clearly, we must move in that direction in the interests of security. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, last Sunday the small country of Switzerland voted in favour of a type of immigration policy that is best suited to the needs of the country in question and its citizens.
The European Union, however, has been following an over-ambitious immigration policy for years, to the detriment of the interests of its own citizens.
Our security, justice and immigration policies ought to strengthen development aid for Africa.
The Member States are mainly responsible for integration.
Integration policy must also be combined with measures to combat people-trafficking and with the development, in partnership, of agreements with third countries.
I want to praise Mr&#160;Frattini for his endeavours in this area.
An area of freedom, justice and security requires increased legal certainty and a strengthening of individual fundamental rights that the European Court of Justice can and must apply.
Legal certainty and the fight against crime go hand in hand. &#160;&#160; – Some months ago, in this Parliament, Commissioner Frattini said that he cannot go ahead at the pace he would like to.
It is embarrassing that the Union is coming across as extremely passive when faced with a situation which is so sensitive, human and tragic for so many people and countries, including Member States.
Malta, like Italy, Spain and other countries, is faced with a burden no country can shoulder on its own.
This is a crisis which transcends frontiers, and therefore the solution must be European, Mediterranean and African, and, if necessary, must also involve the United Nations.
This is such a critical situation that it warrants the formulation of a European emergency plan, and in this context I believe that the European Parliament should have greater competence and a more pronounced role.
There are many initiatives which can be adopted, one of which is the establishment of an observatory based in a Mediterranean country like Malta so that coordination work about illegal immigration in the region can take place.
The Council and the Commission have to send out a clear and concrete signal that they really consider this problem as a priority, and that they are ready to move and to act in order to implement a comprehensive policy which addresses not only the immediate needs of the Member States affected, but also those of the immigrants.
This plan must involve the countries from which these immigrants depart, and must address the problems, especially economic problems of the immigrants’ countries of origin.
The more serious the situation becomes, the greater the citizens’ loss of faith in European institutions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we urgently need the bridging clause for more efficient and democratic decision-making.
The EU must speak with one voice and not allow the United States to determine unilaterally the conditions of our joint counter-terrorism efforts.
Last week the Member States issued a very feeble condemnation of secret CIA detention camps, but I would like to know whether the Europeans will continue to use the information obtained in these secret and illegal prisons.
Commissioner and Council, will you be tough on terrorism, but also tough on intolerance in Europe? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than 20&#160;000 illegal immigrants have, at peril to their lives, run their boats onto the beaches of the Canary Islands, Lampedusa and Malta since the beginning of the year.
We do not know how many others have actually drowned.
Let us, then, turn our words into actions and put a genuine immigration policy in place quickly.
Unfortunately, there is still a glaring lack of resources.
Secondly, let there be a more effective crackdown on traffickers in human beings and on undeclared work in all the Member States.
Co-development money must reach the people directly, without being misappropriated.
To conclude, I would quite candidly ask you how long it is going to take and how many meetings are going to be necessary before the 25 … &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, we had no need for a secret services committee in the United States to tell us that the War in Iraq would increase rather than reduce the risk of terrorism in Europe and the rest of the world.
Nor should anyone declare in the future that they are surprised if it emerges that secret prisons, flexible interpretations of the Geneva Convention, the tapping of thousands of telephones, distrust of every European traveller and the approach to the millions of immigrants living among us with repression rather than integration measures are not only giving terrorists recruiting arguments, but are also, primarily, measures that undermine the sense of security and democracy at the very heart of Europe.
It has repeatedly demanded harsh measures to combat all these murderers.
However, at the same time, it insists on the application of European law and on the protection of fundamental rights.
However, Parliament's balanced and strong stand does not appear to bother certain ministers in the ΕU.
Last week in Tampere, certain ministers of justice insisted on keeping Parliament in the role of ventriloquist's dummy on these issues.
Unfortunately, they included the Greek Minister of Justice, who should be more careful following yesterday's disclosure that the Greek Government had secretly agreed with the USA in 2004 to facilitate the transmission of thousands of data items – not on Greek but on European citizens – during and after the Olympic Games in Athens.
In our countries, no&#160;one understands the national parliaments not having a decisive say and control in policing and justice matters.
In Europe, however, it would appear that some people wish to draw a line and say that democracy does not count here. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, a minute is a very short time, so I shall confine myself to making a single point.
We are dealing with policies in which it seems clear what Europe can and should do: it needs to develop a common asylum system, common rules on legal immigration, and common management of our external borders.
It is clear that national efforts are no longer enough, because they simply do not work.
It is clear that public opinion would support this alternative idea of effective European sovereignty, although I admit that there have been too many speeches by Italian or Mediterranean Members this morning, as if immigration were purely our problem, that is, one affecting just the Mediterranean countries.
Today, at least, I think a large majority in Parliament has made its opinion quite clear on that point. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many new threats to our security and freedom, and uncontrolled immigration is certainly one of them.
The greatest and most recent threat, however, comes from terrorism, as Mr&#160;Frattini pointed out earlier.
I personally have come to the conclusion that we can do very little – and, unfortunately, we have done very little – to discover anything new about the situation, about its causes and about who is to blame.
To combat terrorism within the Union we need to exchange more information, including with our main allies and in particular the United States, with which we have recently had some difficulties.
We must exchange information on an equal footing and on the basis of mutual trust.
Greater control is also needed over the activities of one country’s secret services when they are operating on another’s territory.
Our committee on the CIA has no powers of investigation and so we have to insist that the national parliaments, which in many countries have the appropriate powers, investigate any infringements of human rights and any threats to our security and freedom.
It will then be our job to coordinate the research in order to achieve compatible solutions at a European level. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even if some people choose to ignore the fact, Europe is a continent that attracts immigrants.
What they cannot accept – and this is of course exploited by the extreme Right in particular – is the feeling that they are facing some sort of onslaught that they are powerless to control.
It is, then, absolutely right that the Council and Commissioner Frattini in particular should openly call for action to be taken to give the public the sense that there is such a thing as a single European migration policy with certain cornerstones that ensure that everything is kept under control.
Solidarity within Europe is, of course, a part of this.
Immigration policy, though, must go hand in hand with a policy for integration.
I must also say, however, that I was ashamed, not at what the Spaniards were doing – they were doing their best – but at the lack of solidarity on the part of the European countries that had promised to help Spain but did not do so.
I was also ashamed – and, Commissioner, I hope that you looked at the Spanish press – at the limited resources available to Frontex.
We shall have to implement policies such as the following: greater cooperation amongst the Member States, equal rights and obligations for all immigrants, partnership and cooperation agreements with conditions, bilateral agreements between the Union and countries of origin, including obligatory repatriation clauses.
No, I repeat, no, to national mass regularisation processes, yes to constant improvements in resources and strengthening of the capacities of FRONTEX, to the coordination of controls at maritime borders, to the creation of joint border control patrols and teams, to protecting the Union's external borders and to external European Union action.
Solana and Ferrero to Africa and the Mediterranean!
It is, however, a debate on the progress made in the area of freedom, security and justice.
It is an annual debate, so naturally it has to be rather wide-ranging. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Parliament has to give its opinion by the end of the year on the framework programme known as solidarity and management of migration flows.
Our objective must be to guarantee that the distribution between the four funds – those in relation to refugees, external borders, integration and return – reflects a balanced, rather than essentially repressive, approach to the issue of immigration.
If, finally, we have a duty of solidarity towards Member States that are particularly vulnerable in this respect, let us remember that what we are concerned with here are structural funds which, as such, are not intended to be used as emergency funds, all the more since the distribution keys in each fund allow a variety of situations to be taken into account. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Union’s credibility in the eyes of millions of citizens is at stake.
It is not charity that certain Member States are asking for but, rather, consistency with the European project that we all talk about so much and which is so easy to preach when we are talking about the single market in financial services or the common market in goods.
It is not known when this will come about, but the postponement is not due to delays on the part of the new Member States.
Commissioner, Mr&#160;Rajamäki, how does this situation impact on the Commission’s credibility with regard to granting citizens such a fundamental right as full freedom of movement across the territory of the European Union?
I am not referring to the financial, technical, political and social consequences of this decision.
The European Parliament is monitoring the Commission’s progress in this area, together with any costs arising from the delay, and it will continue to do so.
Nonetheless, we still need the Council to demonstrate strong leadership and reveal the so-called technical problems for what they really are, namely a smokescreen for the lack of political will on the part of certain Member States.
Looking forward to the German Council Presidency, one thing is clear, namely that we cannot act as if legal and illegal immigration were absolutely unconnected, for the opposite is the case; each is conditional upon the other.
That is why the Council of the European Union must at length face up to this problem, not only in Europe’s interests, but also and above all in the interests of the desperate people who go in search of what they are told will be a better future only, alas, often to lose their lives in the attempt.
The utterances that Mr&#160;Beckstein of the Bavarian CSU came out with in Tampere are shameful to say the least, and reveal once more what this man and substantial elements in his party actually believe. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, very little progress has yet been made in the area of security and freedom, and certainly not enough for such a crucial issue.
For years, the Council has decided to base its actions in the area of freedom on mutual recognition, as if the courts, police and secret services in the individual countries of Europe could necessarily cooperate on the basis of mutual recognition.
Events have shown that this principle alone is not enough: we also need the courage to harmonise certain policies and thus turn them into European policies, particularly on matters of freedom.
The first steps are indeed being taken to this end, but I suggest that we should give thought to stepping up development aid, to targeting and monitoring it, to the possibility of information campaigns in the mass media, which should be a collaborative effort with the countries of origin, in which people would be informed about the risks and consequences involved in illegal immigration by being shown how things really are for stranded ‘boat people’ and for those who migrate illegally in search of work, and they would also have to be told about the possibility of migrating legally.
Thirdly, we must do more to address the problem of people working illegally within the European Union and take firm action.
Finally, I would like once more to appeal to the Member States to abandon for good their national animosities where asylum, migration for work purposes and internal security are concerned, or at any rate to curb them and move towards Community-based solutions, for what new challenges demand is new European responses. &#160;&#160; EU citizens attach high priority to the debate we are now having.
As quite a few speakers have said in this House, we should have solved these acute problems a long time ago.
That applies to the migratory flows to the Canary Islands and Malta, information updates for everyone waiting for permission to stay in the EU and better support for those fighting to be accepted as new EU citizens.
We should have made more progress in influencing attitudes in our societies and combating segregation in working life, housing and education.
We in Parliament must obtain increased powers, greater responsibility and access to more rapid decision-making.
It is only by means of a common EU policy in this area that we can achieve results for EU citizens. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, yet again this summer we have witnessed landings and shipwrecks every day that have led to hundreds of deaths in European waters.
Something that we have heard and said all too often in this Chamber is that Malta, Italy and Spain are making an effort for the sake of the whole Union but are left to suffer alone.
The European Union as a whole, with its 25 – soon to be 27 – countries, must once and for all tackle this extremely serious situation jointly.
It is time to start regarding the immigration emergency as a problem affecting all 25 Member States and not just those whose geographical position means that they have to recover bodies from the sea every day.
It is time to do away with unanimity at the Council and to make immigration a first pillar policy.
Poland has the longest external border in the European Union and yet, ironically enough, its citizens cannot move freely across the territory of the whole Union at the moment, because SIS&#160;II is not ready.
If the European Council has the will to remedy the decision-making incompetence of the Europe, in this respect there is only one decision to take: to shift these subjects from the third pillar to the first pillar.
It has the legal power to do that, under Article 42 of the European Treaty and the .
The low credibility of the European Union as far as the security of the citizens is concerned reduces its prestige.
Needless to say, this quote leaves itself wide open to all kinds of feeble comparisons, because with the Schengen information system, an instrument that helps us, among other things, to track illegal immigrants, we are engaged in some kind of political Tour de France, which involves all of us racing like mad in the same direction.
Perhaps Commissioner Frattini will tell us whether the Council is prepared to give these issues a ‘mountain bike treatment’.
Something else that is left hanging in the air is the presidency’s remark that majority decision-making works.
Initially, Commissioner, you said that Libya was interested in participating in the Mediterranean patrols; we then heard Libya deny this.
What is certain is that in the struggle against illegal immigration, cooperation with Libya is necessary, in the same way that it is important that we help Libya protect its borders in the south of the country.
Firstly, effective management and regulation of legal immigration linked to the reality of the labour market.
Secondly, the full social integration of legal immigrants into Spanish society.
In Spain this year, 54&#160;000 illegal immigrants have been repatriated. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Rajamäki, ever since the Tampere Summit in 1999, it has been clear that the Union needs a common approach to the problem of migration, and to economic migration in particular.
Well-managed migration could be the answer to the negative consequences of an ageing population.
We have seen how individual countries have responded to such practices by undertake mass measures to legalise the status of illegal immigrants, as the Socialist government recently decided to do in Spain.
Moves of this kind are not the solution to the problem.
From this perspective, implementing the clause at last is absolutely crucial.
In this case, however, we will all fall together, in unison.
If we have not yet realised it, we are all on the same bicycle. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we have all realised that there is now an urgent need for us to take a common approach towards terrorism, organised crime and illegal immigration.
As far as immigration is concerned, it is necessary to coordinate the structures involved in managing migration flows and simplify decision-making procedures using the qualified majority.
Particular emphasis must also be placed on the need to respect solidarity and the fair distribution of burdens between the Member States, including those not under pressure from immigration.
Unilateral deeds in a community of open internal borders – in which interdependence and interactions are unavoidable – are a matter which deserves our serious attention.
Hypocrisy has prevailed since the first Tampere European Council, which was ultimately supposed to make it possible for asylum and immigration policies to be communitised.
How, then, is it possible to believe that we shall be able to stem these migratory flows at a time when, in addition, the future arrival of refugees from climate change is already being foreseen?
This situation has repercussions for all the countries of the European Union since, as everyone knows, a migrant whose papers have been put in order may move freely within a large part of the EU’s territory.
The example of Spain has shown that, in the area without borders in which we live, a government can no longer decide alone, and without consulting its partners, to regularise the status of all illegal immigrants on its territory.
A common and agreed policy has become essential, as foreseen moreover by the draft European Constitution, which put most of these matters on a basis whereby they could be decided on by qualified majority voting.
The problem must be examined in consultation with the African countries within the framework of a genuine co-development strategy and by means of a proper sharing of competences between countries of immigration and countries of emigration.
Finally, I am not forgetting the very short term and the immediate problems and, like Mr&#160;Deprez, I deplore the behaviour of those Member States that have talked non-stop about mutual aid and solidarity but without ever having translated their words into deeds.
Faced with the influx of illegal immigrants in the Canary Islands, it is our duty to come to the aid of Spain and the task of the Member States to take action and show solidarity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is fundamentally important that the basic principles and values on which the European Union is based are applied, in all circumstances, as part of the Member States' and Community policies too.
If our aspirations towards this are fulfilled, it will bring us closer to safeguarding the Union's democratic legitimacy and retaining our credibility.
This also means that the protection and promotion of fundamental rights must receive appropriate institutional support.
This is why I feel it is important that no Member State should prevent the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights from being set up to operate in a genuinely accountable, independent, as well as effective manner.
No Member State can be allowed to disregard Europe's fundamental values and principles.
But this is especially true for new Member States or for states now joining the Union, where the rule of law is, in many cases, only put to the test after they become members.
It has a direct impact on freedom, security and justice within the EU, which makes it a European matter.
I am convinced that, with some good will on all sides, a compromise will be found which will lead to a lasting solution to this problem, that is, the sorely-needed common European policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am sorry to raise this yet again, but it appears that no one in Parliament’s Presidency is listening.
I know that you are very efficient at getting business through this House, but I urge you please to inform the Conference of Presidents of the continuing dissatisfaction of colleagues in this House about the times of votes being changed arbitrarily, at considerable inconvenience to the way this House’s business is conducted. &#160;&#160; We have had a very comprehensive, whole-morning debate on a single subject.
Unfortunately, I cannot take, say, two minutes to give a five-minute speech, although that would certainly be possible in the Finnish Parliament.
Where possible, we will take the European Parliament’s opinion and views into consideration in future work within the context of the acts of the Treaty, so that we can use an acceptable legislative instrument to guarantee high levels of protection of personal data by establishing common rules for data protection under the third pillar.
The issues of immigration and migration call for more focused discussion, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to return to them once again.
The situation in the Mediterranean was an issue I raised immediately at the first meeting of the Council of Ministers for Home Affairs.
It is essential that we should be able to have a greater influence on social and economic development and on general conditions in third countries from which migrants come.
As a result, it is very important to have better coordination of the EU’s external relations and internal affairs in cooperation with third countries and the Commission.
This is also something that has been continually underlined in the work of the Council of Ministers.
It is also important that we give support to countries which bear a heavy burden when it comes to illegal immigration.
The countries on Schengen’s external borders are also responsible for preventing illegal immigration into the Schengen area.
We want to support that, as well as the work of the new European Agency for the Management of Operational Co-operation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (Frontex).
As Commissioner Frattini said, we must also take a serious view of the fact that the illegal job market and the grey economy are responsible for human and economic chaos.
For this to happen, the authorities must be better able to recognise the phenomenon of the smuggling and trafficking of human beings and to step up their efforts to protect the victims of human trafficking.
Finland wants to revitalise this debate both at home and in the European Union.
Regarding the mountain bike that was called for in earlier speeches, I would like to say that Finland, like Germany and the other presidencies, as well as Commissioner Franco Frattini, would like to put this mountain bike into a higher gear, and that we aim to use it for the benefit of common security and a safer Europe. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Minister.
That is what you are hearing. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I realise that, in the very few minutes available, it is going to be extremely difficult to reply even briefly to all the suggestions and remarks made by those who have taken the floor in the two and a half hours or so of this important debate.
Mr&#160;Rajamäki, you mentioned earlier that today’s debate concerned certain priorities for the European Union, one of which is certainly the fight against terrorism.
We have not talked about it much today, but you are all perfectly aware that just this summer, thanks to some painstaking cooperation, the security authorities in three European countries – the United Kingdom, Denmark and Germany – have foiled some terrorist attacks that could have proved devastating.
Terrorism still remains the main threat to our democracy.
In my view, there is no link between terrorism and immigration, and I share the opinions of those who have pointed that out.
Immigration is undoubtedly a separate priority: it is a challenge, not a danger to the European Union.
I can tell you that the Commission, which is always somewhat ambitious when drawing up proposals, has proposed allocating EUR&#160;17 billion – a substantial sum – to the new European fund for the development of countries such as those in Africa, and that the co-development policies that many have called for will be enhanced accordingly.
Mr&#160;Barón Crespo mentioned the problem of the take-up of the available European funds.
I fully agree with Mr&#160;Barón Crespo, and I call on the Member States once more to draft some projects: European funds can only be spent if projects are put forward by EU Member States.
I should like to say something to all those who have spoken in harsh terms, which I do not endorse, of a kind of ‘European armada’ to wage war on immigrants.
I should just like to mention – and this is directed in particular to Mrs&#160;Flautre, whom I hold in great esteem – that had it not been for the patrols in the Mediterranean and the Atlantic this summer, had it not been for thousands of coastguards, police and security operatives, many thousands of immigrants would have drowned at sea.
The truth is therefore precisely the opposite of what was suggested: it is in the interests of safety that we intend to propose a system that all the governments have asked us to provide.
The subject of the countries on the southern shores of the Mediterranean certainly deserves to be debated thoroughly.
With regard to Libya, I shall only say that that country has agreed to talks with the European Union, which we shall begin in practical terms on the basis, above all, of a guarantee of full compliance with the rules on the dignity of the person and respect for the individual.
We have a duty to start talks with Libya, and we must do so on the basis of mutual respect between the European Union and its non-European partners.
Then there is also the solidarity among Member States within the European Union.
I cannot imagine us lagging behind civil society; I cannot imagine us, as institutions, waiting for civil society to give us a push or even to show its dissatisfaction with our capacity for political leadership.
I see this as a central theme: if we and the Member States’ governments realise that not even they stand to benefit from sticking to their national self-interests, then those governments will understand that national pride, which many of us consider important, can be upheld rather better if we pool our common policies.
Upholding national pride by maintaining that immigration or terrorism can be addressed solely through national policies is not a matter of upholding national pride or upholding the great principles behind so many countries’ traditions; it is merely not responding to what the people are demanding.
That is why we need a political vision with the courage to go in a different direction. &#160;&#160; I should like to thank all 63 speakers who took part in the debate.
I should like to thank the Minister for his brevity and the Commissioner for his passion.
The debate is closed.
There is no doubt that the European Union is finally understanding that the problems faced by Malta and other Mediterranean countries affected by the immigration phenomenon will ultimately become a problem of Europe as a whole.
And this is the Europe that Malta wanted to join.
I cannot but criticise some European countries for squabbling over financial help to their partners – Malta, Italy, Spain and Greece – which are doing their best to alleviate the plight of irregular immigrants. &#160;&#160; – Achieving a European common policy on immigration and asylum is undoubtedly a priority, although the Member States have so far shown varying degrees of willingness to address the problem.
However, the need to tackle the problem of illegal immigration is, in my view, even more urgent.
Practical solutions therefore need to be found urgently to contain and regulate the problem.
Not least, dialogue with and support for those countries from which the immigrants come and those through which they pass on their way to Europe are absolutely essential for any lasting, effective solution.
I hope that the forthcoming presidencies, starting with Germany, which receives a large proportion of the immigrants filtering through from the southern borders, will tackle the issue firmly and achieve a consensus on this subject, which closely affects all Europeans as well as the Union’s delicate social balance. &#160;&#160; I should like to take this opportunity to welcome to the distinguished visitors’ gallery members of a Chinese delegation led by Deputy Minister Qiu Yuanping.
Mrs Qiu is Deputy Minister of the Central Foreign Affairs Office of the People’s Republic of China.
The delegation is here to meet a number of political groups as well as the Chairman of the Committee on International Trade and the chairmen of the Delegation for relations with the People’s Republic of China and the Delegation to the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
This is the second time this year that this session has been arbitrarily cancelled.
The Finnish Presidency has made data protection its priority, and I would today thank it for having done so.
The Council is to present us with a document at the beginning of 2007 and it will take account of our opinion.
That is why I call on you to vote in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, Mr&#160;President, but an error in the French translation of Amendment&#160;29 has been pointed out to me: as the authors of the text, we should like the words ‘’ corrected to ‘’, in line with the spirit of the text in French.
The European Parliament is fulfilling its responsibility for safeguarding European values and the accession criteria with this report.
I therefore ask all Members to support the report as broadly as possible.
European data protection provisions, however, categorise the USA as a third country with poor data protection security, something irreconcilable with the agreement on passenger data, which is itself worthy of criticism.
As always, proposals of this kind involve a protracted and very complicated compromise between the countries.
The June List is always a devoted adherent of the Member States’ right to self-determination in criminal law, and we are very concerned about legal certainty.
It is true that Parliament’s amendments contain certain guarantees of legal certainty for individuals, but the proposal as a whole entails a major step towards supranational control of what is at the heart of the right to self-determination of a state governed by the rule of law, namely criminal law. &#160;&#160; – The Greek Communist Party voted against the report because, despite the individual improvements which it proposes to the proposal for a directive of the European Commission, it basically accepts its entire underlying philosophy, which is no less than the unlimited and, from a practical point of view, uncontrollable facility for the prosecuting authorities and repressive mechanisms not only of the Member States of the EU, but also of third countries (aka the USA) and even of private individuals, to collect, process and exchange all the personal data of each citizen of the EU, including data relating to their political and trade union activities and their ideological, philosophical and religious convictions.
It is important to note that, while the number of counterfeit euro notes appears to have stabilised at 50&#160;000 per month, we are seeing a worrying explosion in counterfeit coins.
We should therefore consider whether it may be in our interest to look into the introduction of a one euro note, following the example of the one dollar note in the United States of America, in order to prevent counterfeiting and also because it would be of some practical use to commerce and to the citizens. &#160;&#160; Since the euro was introduced and the Member States’ national currencies correspondingly withdrawn, there is just one encouraging development to be noted: the reduction in counterfeiting.
This is due, in particular, to the constructive cooperation between the anti-fraud office, or OLAF, the European Central Bank, Europol, Interpol and the competent national authorities.
That would be perfectly natural.
Those are some of the ambiguities contained in this text, which, in our view, justify our reticence, all the more so because there is a convention on this matter, the convention of 1970.
This also raises the problem of the States that are not Members of the European Union but that nevertheless ratified that convention.
This reservation, which we have developed since ratification, presents a new problem in international law, which we would prefer to regulate under the terms of the international conventions. &#160;&#160; – I voted in favour of the excellent report by Mr&#160;Demetriou on the proposal for a Framework Council Decision on taking account of convictions in the Member States of the European Union in the course of new criminal proceedings.
It has become essential to establish the principle of mutual recognition of convictions, together with the gathering and exchange of appropriate information that would naturally accompany that.
Criminal law goes to the heart of a country’s sovereignty and right to self-determination.
The proposal is in danger of undermining the Hague convention governing the international scope of criminal courts, which was signed back in 1972 and has operated successfully since then.
True, the June List believes that Parliament’s amendment is better thought-out, but it also believes that the proposal as a whole is a further step towards a supranational union.
I would have tabled an amendment to it, had it not been for the fact that the time available for discussion of amendments in committee ran out, since the deadline for handing them in fell in the summer recess and the vote took place immediately following it without further debate in committee.
This report is no doubt worthy, however we need strongly to reiterate the prime importance of respecting different national legal traditions rather than following too prescriptive a path.
In this way, Euro-unifying legislation is adding yet another tool to the effort to impose on national criminal legislation the supranational arrangements of the ΕU, which will determine the acts which it judges should be classified as criminal.
The Greek Communist Party voted against the report and calls on the workers to step up their action through the workers' and grassroots movement to defend democratic rights and grassroots freedoms. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I voted against my party's whip with regard to the Capoulas Santos report on the fisheries agreement with Guinea-Bissau.
Over the last seven years I have become increasingly concerned about the nature of the various fisheries agreements the European Union has with many and various countries.
The main difficulty currently facing the Community fleet concerns the manifest lack of resources for the inspection and surveillance of the country’s exclusive economic zone, that is to say, outside the 12-mile zone.
The result of this lack of resources is illegal practices that are jeopardising the sustainability of the fishing activities of the Community fleet.
This extension will also maintain the fishing opportunities for the European fleet and will enable the Guinea-Bissau Government to guarantee best fishing practice for the EU on the basis of the sustainability of the resources concerned.
These agreements do not serve development, conservation or the credibility of the EU and I shall continue to vote against them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I did not vote on draft amending budget No 4, the Pittella report.
This is not because I have no respect for the rapporteur – in fact I have a huge amount of respect for Mr Pittella and I am quite sure that this particular adjustment in the budget is fine.
We find it unfair and antiquated that a Member State should have been placed in this kind of unique position and we wish, in this connection, to emphasise the importance of reviewing the EU budget planned for 2008/2009.
During the debate and negotiation stage we were able to improve upon various aspects of the Commission’s original proposal on Progress, which now includes a number of proposals put forward by our group on the opinion of which I was draftsman on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
There may be exceptions but it would be very difficult to gain approval for them.
Or perhaps I should say fiddling while the Treaty of Rome burns. &#160;&#160; . – For 2007-2013, the Progress programme wants to absorb the Community programmes on social protection, working conditions and so on into a single text.
This programme also quite clearly has an ideological slant.
Whilst gender equality and consideration for the needs of disabled people are very laudable objectives, the defence of 'people potentially exposed to discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin, religion or beliefs, disability, age and sexual orientation' may be a way of silencing opposition to the immigration policy currently being pursued by the Member States, which has been threatening our social protection systems for 30 years.
Quite apart from its costs, this draft strengthens the powers of the European bureaucracy in Brussels, which bears a large part of the responsibility for the ruin of many of our industries, for the destruction of our countryside and therefore for the social regression from which the peoples of Europe are suffering.
The partial political agreement on a common position already incorporates most of Parliament’s amendments to the text of the proposal.
Broadly speaking, Parliament, the Council and the Commission have taken the same line on this programme.
The Progress programme is more than an important instrument of social policy.
It is indicative of the fact that Parliament recognises that public policy continues to play a central role in promoting employment, social protection, social inclusion, favourable working conditions, the fight against discrimination, diversity and equality between men and women.
The view that what is required is more Europe and less self-interest is a further vital factor in the success of regional and social cohesion policy.
I welcome the simplification that PROGRESS will bring, by continuing to develop activities launched by four previous programmes, in line with the Commission’s intention to consolidate and streamline the EU's financial instruments. &#160;&#160; . – I voted in favour of the assent for the strategic guidelines on cohesion, but I should like to emphasise that the regional policy reform took place not only in the difficult context of the renewal of the financial perspective, but also in the context of the revival of the Lisbon Strategy, which clearly reoriented its objectives.
The fact is that reorienting them exclusively towards innovation, the knowledge-based economy and competitiveness in the old Member States is not enough to guarantee the objectives of territorial cohesion and sustainable development, which seem to me to take priority.
I am worried about the fate that awaits them in the programme, because there is still no clear dividing line between intervention from the ERDF and that from the EAFRD, which is part of the CAP and has very limited funds. &#160;&#160; . – The Community strategic guidelines for 2007-2013 have finally been adopted by the European Parliament.
Parliament had its say on the guidelines in its sitting of 18&#160;May in a resolution that it adopted based on the Krehl report on preparing for the assent procedure for the Community’s strategic guidelines for the period 2007-2013 (Cohesion Policy in Support of Growth and Jobs), which I supported and on which I voted accordingly.
The recommendation on the proposal for a Council decision on Community strategic guidelines on cohesion by Mrs&#160;Krehl is based on that parliamentary resolution of 18&#160;May.
We do not accept the change implied by these strategic guidelines, insofar as they make cohesion play second fiddle to competitiveness; in other words, the objective of economic and social cohesion becomes secondary to the 'Lisbon Strategy' objectives and their neoliberal agenda of liberalising the markets and public services, encouraging deregulation and reducing job security, privatising social security and selling off teaching and research to the highest bidder.
It is an agenda, in other words, that undermines economic and social cohesion and promotes territorial disparities and social inequalities.
The establishment of a minimum quota of funds for these purposes – at least 60% for convergence regions – is therefore unacceptable, as it pits contradictory objectives against one another, especially in a context in which the amount of funds has been cut to 0.37% of Community GNI from 0.41% in the previous framework.
We voted for the deregulation of public services, against a framework directive, against the distinction between services of general economic interest and services of general interest, for the application of competition law to all services of general interest and their precise definition, against the definition of 'in-house', in other words state control, and against the specifics of the Altmark criteria.
Under these circumstances, we are taking a considerable step backwards in comparison with the previous resolutions by Mr&#160;Herzog and Mr&#160;Langen in 2001, and the Commission is now proposing a new communication at the end of the year.
I hope that it is not a final defeat. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, we did not vote in favour of the Rapkay report for one very specific reason: it constitutes a completely unjustified backward step in comparison with the text of the Constitution.
The text of the draft Constitution provided for a European law laying down the principles and conditions that enable us to provide, implement and fund services of general economic interest.
I am consequently most concerned about the wayward path being taken by Parliament, which claims to support the Constitutional Treaty but which, when it comes to something important, and even crucial, to public opinion in some countries, pulls back with no justification. &#160;&#160; – I voted in favour of the report by Mr&#160;Rapkay on the Commission White Paper on services of general interest (SGI) because it is a balanced report.
In particular, he has had the courage to point out that it is impossible to provide a uniform definition of SGIs in such a heterogeneous social and economic environment as the European Union and that, in this field, the principle of subsidiarity must be reaffirmed, leaving it to the Member States to define what should or should not be classed as coming under the general interest and directly to act in accordance with their decisions.
Following the difficulties in reaching a political compromise at first reading on the ‘services’ directive, the debate on SGIs is far from concluded.
It is urgent that we legislate at European level on particular sectors, namely social services and health services of general interest, in order to provide them with legal certainty.
We must not give way on these vital issues for the future of public services in our countries, and we must not take a backward step in comparison to what Parliament adopted in the Herzog resolution in 2004 and the Langen resolution in 2001, especially at a time when the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has drafted a proposal for a framework directive on general interest services that goes still further. &#160;&#160; .
I therefore supported and voted in favour of this report.
I am disappointed, however, that the report did not incorporate another of the main ideas that I put forward in the opinion of which I was the draftsman, namely a recognition, in the context of SGIs, of the unique situation of the outermost regions, in view of the particular structural and permanent obstacles that they face. &#160;&#160; – I voted against Mr&#160;Rapkay's report for the following reasons.
At the same time, it covers up the effects of the sectoral liberalisations that have already taken place in areas such as transport, energy and communications.
Contrary to what is claimed, and as many user groups and consumer protection organisations have proved, liberalisation has led to more difficult access to services, lower service quality, higher prices and the loss of thousands of jobs, on the pretext of sectoral restructuring.
The idea of dividing services of general interest into economic and non-economic, from a commercial perspective, is actually part of an attempt to put almost all public services at the mercy of the market.
Our position is to defend the exclusive competence and sovereignty of the Member States in defining how public services are to be funded and how that funding is to be organised.
It is not enough for people to say this lies within the competence of Member States when those same Member State governments are using market rules, the Services Directive and other means to achieve liberalisation by the back door.
These good intentions may fool people, especially when the draft framework directive now seems to have been abandoned.
However, a good many binding rules are going to compete with the Member States’ prerogatives, such as their control over funding methods.
Finally, it is clearly impossible for me to vote in favour of this text, as it refers to the Constitutional Treaty – the Constitution – which the report maintains would provide better guarantees for SGIs faced with the current mess that European legislation is in.
A framework directive should guarantee standardisation among users, equality among the citizens and the regions, territorial planning and the long-term continuity of the services provided, as well as a quality standard level.
We must, as a matter of urgency, stop this across-the-board liberalisation, which satisfies neither the employees engaged in these activities nor the citizens. &#160;&#160; – Services of general economic interest, with the distinction between their economic and non-economic aspects, are in the sights of big business, with a view to commercialising the satisfaction of basic grassroots needs and increasing their profits.
The results of this policy will be particularly painful for the workers: the loss of thousands of jobs, worse industrial relations and a fall in the standard of living.
The Greek Communist Party voted against the European Parliament resolution which accepts the division of services of general interest into economic and non-economic services and promotes the selling off and commercialisation of these services.
Firstly, the EU is not in a position to provide services of general economic interest, and this is increasingly true of services of general interest as well (any exceptions should ideally be based on cooperation between the Member States); legislation on these services should increasingly be at national level, although it should also comply with the rules of the internal market and the principles of freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services.
Lastly, I am dismayed that the resolution on this issue calls on the Commission to submit a comprehensive analysis ‘of the effects of liberalisation to date, in particular on the situation of consumers and the employees affected’.
This leap ahead could be made by means of initiatives in the area of services of general interest (SGIs), public services that are not of a commercial nature and that are financed mainly by public funds.
I believe that the precise definition, formulation, organisation and funding of SGIs should rest exclusively with the Member States, reflecting the reality in the Member States and respect for regional and local autonomy.
The provision of SGIs at local, regional and national level has been at variance with Community legislation.
I wanted to make this statement for the avoidance of inconsistencies and misinterpretations. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I have voted, deliberately and with conviction, in favour of the first part of paragraph&#160;69 and against the second, taking as I do the view that the good work done by Mr&#160;Eurlings and many other Members does in fact amount to an enumeration of issues and situations that militate against Turkish accession, and that is a reason why the negotiations should not have accession as their final objective.
It is for that reason that I have voted against the report as a whole.
We should focus on paragraph&#160;71 by trying to find a way of tying Turkey into the European structures, and we should do the same for other neighbouring countries to which the prospect of Member State status should not be held out and that we do not in any case believe capable of achieving it. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, even though there is no doubt that it has a number of good or interesting points – not least the way it makes clear that Turkey is not ready for Europe and also that it probably never will be – I voted against the Eurlings report, and I did so on the grounds that the Turkish Government is doing nothing more than indulging in window-dressing, in that it has agreed on a few reforms, albeit without implementing them, not to mention the fact that we are not getting any closer to solving certain problems with considerable potential for doing damage, such as the conflict over Cyprus, the Kurdish problem or the acknowledgement of the Armenian genocide.
I believe it is now time that we did what Europe’s citizens have been doing for some time, and said an honest ‘no’ to the accession negotiations. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, many of us abstained from voting on the Eurlings report, and we did so for the following reasons.
Unfortunately, Parliament, by means of its vote, has rejected the recognition of the Armenian genocide as a prerequisite for accession and, in spite of our vote and that of a number of our fellow Members, has also adopted a provision that implicitly provides for accession as the only outcome of the negotiations.
We disagree on these two points.
What the Eurlings report did do, though, was to prove that the mood in this Parliament and in Europe has shifted in the right direction in the past two years and that we have become more aware of the many points on which Ankara is failing to fulfil the Copenhagen accession criteria.
It was therefore a good thing that the rapporteur reminded us of the Armenian genocide, but today’s vote is making the Liberals, Greens and Socialists in this Parliament look like fools.
The same applies to the Cyprus issue, in respect of which many in this House appear to forget that the northern half of that country, with its terrorist regime, has, for over thirty years, been kept under the thumb of Turkey, a country that can never, and indeed should never, become a Member State of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too voted against the Eurlings report, because it still works on the premise that Turkey’s accession remains desirable.
Taking out the key clause on the Armenian genocide is a disgrace; the actual effect of it is that we in this House are distancing ourselves from the two resolutions we have adopted on this subject in the past.
The Walloon , for example, withdrew its support for recognition of the Armenian genocide for fear of losing votes among the ever increasing Turkish electorate in Brussels, where elections are to be held in two weeks’ time.
It is intolerable that we should still be negotiating with a Turkish Government, members of which have recently compared Pope Benedict with Hitler and Mussolini.
It was politicians of Turkish origin who made the most odious statements in response to Pope Benedict’s speech in my own country.
I would point out that, in 2004, we voted in favour of a resolution stating that we were calling for the recognition of the Armenian genocide; and that, in 2005, we voted in favour of a resolution stating that we were calling for the recognition of this genocide as a prerequisite for accession.
The message that this is a Parliament that changes its mind and that forgets about its resolutions.
This is an extremely negative and extremely serious message.
I regret that it has been sent out and that it has prevented us from voting in favour of what is, I might add, an excellent report by Mr&#160;Eurlings. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate evaluating Turkey’s supposed progress towards joining the European Union, and since we approved an important resolution on the Armenian genocide, I have been wondering what we can demand from Turkey other than a clear commitment in this area at last: specifically a commitment to respect human rights and to accept the values on which the European Union is founded.
Instead, today’s vote has yet again shown the hypocrisy of political correctness, in that it seeks to leave out the need for a clear position statement from the demands that Europe has a duty to put to Turkey's leaders and institutions – the same people who welcomed the Pope's words and forthcoming visit with vulgar, violent language and Mafia-like threats.
We no longer have a Europe of human rights, but a Europe that could not care less about human rights! &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I voted for the adoption of the Eurlings report in the belief that it was good, critical, and the best report of this kind to have been put before us to date.
I voted in favour of the Eurlings report even though a majority backed the inclusion of a clause stating that the objective to be aimed for had to be Turkey’s full membership of the European Union, an objective of which I am of course not in favour on the grounds that Turkey is neither ready for accession nor willing to comply with our requirements, and because I know – as does everyone else in this House – that the EU cannot afford to have Turkey as a Member State.
Turkey's membership, even wider enlargement and the Constitution are all part of the same grand design. &#160;&#160; . – One year on from the start of accession negotiations with Turkey, the Eurlings report reviews the progress that has been made and the problems that have been encountered.
With the tabling of certain amendments, it has been possible to balance this report so as to take account of the efforts made by Turkey and, at the same time, to highlight areas that remain problematic, such as Turkey’s failure to sign the Ankara Protocol and the treatment of minorities.
As regards the paragraph on the possibility of enhanced cooperation between the EU and Turkey in the event of a breakdown in negotiations, such a move is not appropriate at the moment.
In my opinion, Turkey’s entry into the EU represents both an opportunity for Turkey and an opportunity for Europe. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, on behalf of the Transnational Radical Party, I voted against the Eurlings report on Turkey, because Parliament is thereby authorising the European Union to shut itself off from the Mediterranean and the Middle East yet again.
The European Union must not just shut itself off and focus solely on its Constitution, as President Barroso explained to us a few days ago.
Josef Ratzinger is not Javier Solana.
While these developments are naturally very worrying, Turkey’s democratic forces and forces sympathetic to reform must not be forgotten.
It is important for Turkey to come to terms with its history, including in relation to Armenia.
I did the same for the other amendments to this paragraph. &#160;&#160; . – I voted against the Eurlings report because it reflects Europe’s growing hypocrisy regarding Turkey.
Even though it is clear that Turkey still has more work to do in many areas, certain political forces within the Council and Parliament are multiplying the obstacles that Turkey has to overcome.
I, for my part, intend to dissociate myself from these shameful tactics which, at the end of the day, are merely designed to preserve a ‘Christian Europe’! &#160;&#160; . – If you had not incorrectly described Turkey as a European country – which it is not – then you would not be in the position today of having to acknowledge a number of truths.
You have discovered that Turkey is still refusing to recognise Cyprus - even though it is a member of this Union that Turkey wants to join – and that it frequently provokes border incidents with another Member State, Greece.
The June List does not see Turkey’s geographical position or its religion as an obstacle to possible membership of the EU.
A possible future Treaty is another issue that must be discussed before further enlargements of the EU can be carried out, with particular attention being given to the voting strength of each Member State so as to prevent a situation in which a small number of large Member States become able to dominate the whole of the EU.
We have therefore voted in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; . – I abstained from voting on this report.
The report presented in plenary has the virtue of finally seeing things as they are.
This report is more solid than previous reports, but I regret the lack of courage shown by Parliament on the issue of the recognition of the Armenian genocide.
Turkey does not recognise one of the Member States of the European Union – the Republic of Cyprus – and has been occupying it for 30 years!
After a year of negotiations, reports have come to light of a downturn in the economic situation of the Kurdish people and of breaches of the Kurds’ legitimate political and cultural rights.
Its accession is being promoted by the major powers in the EU, since the large economic and financial groups in those countries want to be able to exploit Turkey's economy and resources and to use its geostrategic position for their plans to influence and dominate the Middle East, the Caucasus and Central Asia.
A further 28 chapters remain open, however, without even mentioning the Copenhagen criteria.
There are problems everywhere, including an electoral law that tramples on the freedoms of the citizens, women and national and religious minorities; inadequate infrastructure in the east of the country; tense relations with its neighbours; the employment structure; the manner in which the police and army investigate crime; and the occupation of part of an EU Member State.
The process of implementing new laws will undoubtedly be a long and complicated one.
Following the adoption of a number of amendments which remove the most urgent problems from the report on Turkey’s progress towards accession, it is unfortunately not acceptable to the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left.
We therefore felt obliged to vote against the adopted wording. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;Eurlings’s report contained some excellent passages, particularly those concerning the Armenian genocide - which the Turkish authorities refuse to acknowledge - the economic blockade imposed on Armenia and the refusal to recognise Cyprus, a Member State of the European Union.
Turkey therefore has no reason to join the European Union.
This obvious fact, which is acknowledged by the people of Europe, particularly in France and Austria, is not acknowledged by those who govern us.
It is true that the European Commission, Mr&#160;Chirac and the British, as the main champions of the Ottoman regime, are there to prevent any wayward paths or measures being taken that are likely to delay or prevent accession.
We, for our part, have not changed according to the circumstances and to the fluctuations in the Turkish Government, which blows hot and cold with the negotiators from the European Commission and the main Member States.
Turkey is not a European country and does not meet any of the Copenhagen criteria, which are meant to define a country’s accession to the European Union.
As defenders of the people of France, we will protect their interests, which hinge, among other things, on the rejection of Turkey’s accession to Europe. &#160;&#160; – I have always felt that Turkey’s entry into the EU could not be considered within the present context of European integration.
The first circle consists of a federal nucleus, with countries that share ambitious social objectives and the desire for a ‘powerful Europe’, a player on the international stage.
The second circle groups together the existing 27 countries of the EU.
The third circle must set up a close, global partnership with neighbouring countries in the Balkans, the Mediterranean and elsewhere.
The report commends the opening of the active phase of negotiations and the completion of the first chapter of science and technology as well as the resumption of legislative change in Turkey through the ninth package of legislative reform.
We welcome today’s decision by the European Parliament to recognise that the resolution of the problem caused by Turkey’s occupation of part of Cyprus is a major issue which must be dealt with before Turkey can join the EU.
I hope that those negotiations will eventually lead to a democratic, multi-ethnic and multi-religious Turkey that lives in peace with all its neighbours.
Chances are that the negotiations will soon run aground as a result of the delay in Cyprus’ federalisation and the ongoing tensions between Turkey and Cyprus that result from that.
The realistic and critical view taken by the report of the situation in Turkey makes it appropriate that it should be adopted.
It is inconceivable that Turkey should become a Member State of the EU without facing up to the facts of history.
A Europe without political or geographical contours is a Europe that the public reject.
Enlargement must not be seen as an automatic process.
Furthermore, it must be acknowledged from the outset that this is not only about Turkey honouring a series of criteria without which accession would be impossible, but also about the EU being in a position to receive and absorb Turkey.
On the other hand, as I noted at the beginning of this negotiation stage, I feel that a negotiation in which one of the parties does not recognise the other in its entirety, as in the case of Turkey towards Cyprus and, by extension, the EU, is a negotiation that has got off on the wrong foot and that suffers from severe shortcomings.
Lastly, this process has a great deal of potential in terms of promoting economic openness, development, democracy and respect for human rights in Turkey and this should not go to waste.
The worst outcome of this process would be a chasm developing between Turkey and the EU. &#160;&#160; . – Yes, I ended up voting in favour of this report on the accession of Turkey.
We have confirmed the vote that took place within the Committee on Foreign Affairs on many points: we regret the slowing down of the reforms and highlight the persistent violations in relation to freedom of expression, religious freedom, minority rights, women’s rights and even cultural rights.
By yielding to the pressure of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and others, plenary has just taken a step backwards: we are no longer calling on Turkey to recognise the Armenian genocide as a prerequisite for accession.
This is because I do not feel that such a report is appropriate or relevant given that the European Commission, which is responsible for following Turkey’s progress towards accession, has not yet published its report.
The amendments adopted during the plenary session, in particular those from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament removing the recognition of the Armenian genocide as a prior condition to accession, have gone some way to redressing the imbalance of the Eurlings report.
Nevertheless, the report is excessively negative and very unbalanced, particularly in relation to the Cyprus issue, where there is no recognition of Turkish Cypriot support for the Annan Plan or of the EU’s unfulfilled promise to end the isolation of Northern Cyprus.
There is also no call for any constructive movement on the part of the Republic of Cyprus, which is left to determine the pace of Turkey’s accession negotiations (according to recital B) and whose interests even intrude into NATO, where Turkey is then blamed for making difficulties (paragraph 54).
On this basis I abstained. &#160;&#160; .I decided to abstain from voting on the Eurlings report, even though it is a harsh report.
Admittedly, it marks a turning point in terms of our becoming aware of the reality of the relations between the EU and Turkey, but by implying and confirming, after the rejection of certain amendments, that accession is an end in itself, it remains too unilateral.
The undeniable slowing down of the reforms in Turkey, despite the Commission’s opening accession negotiations, should, on the contrary, give added weight to the option of a privileged partnership.
The fact that the opening of these negotiations has not speeded up the reforms is worrying, and our response must consist of a demand for results and not of the idea that accession will take place no matter what.
Finally, I endorsed the amendment on the recognition of the Armenian genocide as a prerequisite for this possible accession, because we are not talking here about a symbolic point but about a moral obligation and a historic demand that are incumbent on the Turkish authorities. &#160;&#160; Turkey has a very long way to go before EU membership can be an imminent possibility.
It is important to make clear demands of Turkey.
The Copenhagen human rights criteria must be fulfilled.
Before Turkish membership of the EU can become an imminent possibility, the voting strength of each Member State must be changed so that a small number of densely populated Member States will not dominate the EU’s decision-making.
The EU’s common agricultural policy and regional policy must be reformed before Turkey can become a member of the EU.
The Presidency, together with EU High Representative Javier Solana, has been working closely with EU partners and the international community to try and set common objectives and to cooperate in order to build lasting peace in Darfur.
Furthermore, Pekka Haavisto, who was appointed EU Special Representative for Sudan in summer 2005, is continuing to monitor the general situation in Sudan and the coordination of EU action, and to take part in discussions with Sudan in his capacity as EU representative.
The Darfur Peace Agreement, which was signed in May by the Sudanese Government and Minni Minnawi’s rebel troops, the Sudanese Liberation Movement, was regarded as an opportunity for peace.
The Peace Agreement was expected to end the three-year long conflict, which has claimed almost 300&#160;000 lives and driven more than two million people into exile.
Four months on, however, security and the humanitarian situation in the region are rapidly deteriorating.
At the same time, it has become harder for humanitarian aid to get through, with help reaching only around 50% of those who need it.
If the Darfur Peace Agreement were implemented – and barely any progress has been made on this – it would have an immediate impact on the lives of some six million Darfurians.
In order to improve security, it is vital that the parties involved in the conflict commit to the ceasefire and that the ceasefire is monitored.
The EU has repeatedly called on the parties involved in the conflict to comply with their obligations under the Peace Agreement and the Humanitarian Ceasefire Agreement signed in N’Djamena in 2004.
The European Union, and in particular its special representative, Mr&#160;Haavisto, has also been active in trying to involve those not party to the Agreement in the peace process, and to persuade them to sign up to the Darfur Peace Agreement.
The European Union is worried about the effects of the Darfur conflict on the peace process in Sudan as a whole.
The conflict will have serious repercussions for regional stability in East Africa and the Horn of Africa, especially in Chad and the Central African Republic.
To support the Darfur peace process, in 2004 the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS) was set up.
The Member States have also lent support to the operation with major bilateral contributions.
AMIS, the first peacekeeping operation in the history of the African Union, has done excellent work in extremely difficult circumstances.
Its capacity and resources are nevertheless insufficient to confront the enormous challenges that Darfur presents.
From this, it is clear that the only possible and realistic solution to peacekeeping in Darfur is a UN operation.
The main task of the UN operation would be to support the implementation of the Darfur Peace Agreement.
The protection of civilians and monitoring the ceasefire would be essential elements in the operation’s mandate.
For that reason, the EU takes a positive view of the decision taken by the African Union in New York on 20&#160;September that AMIS’s mandate should be extended until the end of the year.
The EU has also urged other international players to take action to convince the Sudanese Government of the usefulness and necessity of the UN operation for the peace process in Sudan generally.
The EU is very anxious about human rights violations in Darfur.
In particular, women and children have been the victims of physical violence, including rape.
The EU has repeatedly reminded the Sudanese Government of its responsibility to protect its citizens from all forms of violence and to guarantee respect for human rights.
The EU is one of the main providers of assistance in the reconstruction work following the civil war in Sudan.
At the Oslo Donors’ Conference on Sudan in April 2005, the Commission and the Member States together promised substantial aid to cover immediate needs and start reconstruction.
It is important that the EU should have a conspicuous and active role in Sudan and Darfur.
The situation in Sudan and Darfur is one of the most crucial issues with regard to Africa and the Common Foreign and Security Policy, and will stay high up on the agenda during the Finnish EU Presidency.
The matter will also be raised at all the main conferences and meetings with third parties, including high-level meetings.
The humanitarian tragedy is continuing and even worsening, resulting in more death and suffering.
Darfur is liable at any moment to lapse back into all-out war, with unpredictable and incalculable consequences for the stability of both the country and the region.
The Commission takes a positive view of the decision taken by the African Union to extend its mandate until 31&#160;December.
This shows just how urgent it is, on both sides, to succeed in swiftly re-establishing a calm dialogue on Darfur and on the issue of the transfer, in order to resolve the misunderstandings that could still exist in relation to this matter.
All of these aspects are also in Khartoum’s interests.
This approach can only backfire on them.
The conclusions of the last General Affairs Council send out a very clear and very firm message both to the rebels and to Khartoum regarding their own responsibility.
The Commission believes that there is still a possibility of de-escalation and a space in which a genuine dialogue can be resumed.
It is in this frame of mind and with a desire to listen that Mr&#160;Barroso of the European Commission and my fellow Commissioner, Mr&#160;Michel, intend shortly to travel to Khartoum and meet President&#160;Bashir with the aim of taking forward the process of transition from the African Union to the United Nations and of relaunching the Abuja peace process. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, those people who have managed to survive in Darfur are in a desperate situation, with Janjaweed militias continuing to attack and destroy villages, torturing, raping, and compelling new recruits to join them on a daily basis.
There are parts of Darfur that international aid organisations can no longer reach.
The Sudanese Government ought to be discharging its obligation to protect its own people, but its intentions are the very opposite, and its latest military offensive constitutes a breach of the Darfur peace agreement.
In this situation, it is absolutely vital that the international community should implement UN Security Council resolution 1706, which opened the way to the deployment of up to 25&#160;000 UN troops.
The African Union, which has done everything it possibly can, is also in favour of a relief by UN troops, but it is of course important that it should be given every possible support – as it has been to date – until that happens.
I have to say that that is, quite frankly, in my view, no more than the second-best solution, for the UN troops really need to be there right now.
A particular responsibility rests not only on the members of the Security Council, but also, and primarily, on those powers that can exercise a veto in it, for their responsibility is to the world at large, and they must not be guided solely by their own national interests.
The confusion about the future of the African Union is very serious: it is underfunded, overstretched and finding it very difficult to operate.
As you have said, the conflict has caused the deaths of 300&#160;000 civilians.
Two million people – or one third of the population - have been displaced within Darfur; 200&#160;000 have crossed the border in order to flee to Chad.
Three&#160;million people are entirely dependent on international food aid.
Those in charge of the NGOs are they themselves also victims of this conflict: twelve of them have been killed in the last two months.
Hundreds of women are raped each month as soon as they leave the camp and walk a few metres to go and find some wood to burn for heating or to use for food.
There can be no military solution to the Darfur crisis.
There is an urgent need to reopen a negotiating space and to work on a political agreement to which all of the parties concerned would fully contribute.
That is essential if the population of Darfur is to support the peace process.
This agreement will have to provide for the people of Darfur to be represented at the various levels of government, for a genuine guarantee that the Janjaweed militias will be disarmed and for a guarantee that the two million displaced persons and the 200&#160;000 refugees will be able to return safely to their lands.
We here, in the European Parliament, do not have the right to turn our backs on this issue. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, unfortunately, where Darfur is concerned, the resolutions and the declarations have been following on from one another for several years now with, it would seem, little to no success.
As has been pointed out, the abuses continue, the acts of violence are on the increase and the women and children are the main victims of these crimes and these atrocities.
In fact, the more time that goes by, the more the government in Khartoum thinks that it can act with impunity and says to itself that, in the end, by digging its heels in and by gaining time, it will achieve its ends.
If we want to act, then, it seems that there are three priorities to fulfil.
The third and final priority is, of course, the establishment, as quickly as possible, of a United Nations force that can go and strengthen that of the African Union, which is all the same playing an important role that should be consolidated.
Furthermore, we must, at the same time, call for a general dialogue, as the previous speaker pointed out.
Finally, I have a few words to say about the role of oil in this affair.
We know only too well that oil stirs up conflicts, excites envy, enables people to buy weapons and also leads to standstills, particularly on the part of China - which has very important interests in that area – and of all those, and the superpowers in particular, that are now searching ever more feverishly for oil resources to which they can have easy access.
We will therefore have to integrate this issue of access to oil into a much broader, European and international, context. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian and political situation in Darfur is getting worse from one day to the next.
According to Jan Egeland, the UN coordinator for humanitarian aid, the humanitarian situation has deteriorated since 2004: entire regions of Darfur have been left without any humanitarian personnel because the Khartoum government is preventing international agencies from gaining access.
The international community cannot just stand by and look on, now that the forces sent in by the Organisation for African Unity to protect the civilian population have practically failed.
Their lack of any political and military credibility is now beyond doubt.
The peacekeeping troops proposed under Resolution 1706 now need to be deployed in order to protect hundreds of thousands of women, men and children who for too long have been suffering attacks from the Janjaweed, even though previous UN resolutions have rightly called for them to be disbanded.
It would be even better, of course, if the Sudanese Government approved the deployment of the UN force; I hope it will, and I also think that the Arab League countries should put more effective pressure on Khartoum to accept the UN resolution.
At the same time, however, any kind of Sudanese veto against the United Nations would be unacceptable: there are hundreds of thousands of innocent lives at stake, and we need to do something for them.
In the last month alone, 50&#160;000 people have been driven from their homes.
We need a UN peacekeeping force at least 20&#160;000 strong on the ground in Darfur if we are going to stop it.
The UN and the EU must act.
We must act to make sure what is happening is stopped. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, there is no doubt about it: the Darfur crisis is the result of the government’s policy of Arabisation, as well as of its willingness to arm the militias engaged in the civil war in southern Sudan.
Despite that, President Omar al-Bashir denounces it as a lie that Sudanese Arabs are attacking Sudanese black Africans, and claims that human rights organisations that decry the present state of affairs are doing so only in the hope of attracting more donations.
Perhaps, then, this genocide might be halted if there were an agreement to send a multinational peace-keeping force composed of Africans and Muslims, in other words a joint intervention by African Union and UN troops. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Darfur continues to be a humanitarian crisis.
More than a quarter of a million innocent people have been killed since 2003, and a further 2.5 million people have been displaced.
The UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1706 last month calling for the deployment of more than 22&#160;000&#160;peacekeepers in the region.
The mandate of the African Union Mission in Sudan has been extended so that the UN now has three more months in which to reach an agreement with the Sudanese Government on the need for a more effective multilateral force to protect civilians.
The Sudanese Government has shown no willingness to protect internally displaced persons.
The Arab League has finally pledged some economic support and EU Member States also need to be generous in this regard.
The EU has a responsibility to make Darfur an ongoing priority for the UN.
More pressure is needed on China and Russia in particular to play a more positive role in Sudan.
The European Parliament is once again issuing its opinion on the situation in Darfur and, in my particular case, I am adding my voice to that of the victims: the civil population, the women and the children of Darfur.
Since the armed conflict broke out three years ago, the appeals from the humanitarian agencies have become increasingly desperate.
There is complete impunity despite the fact that Sudan had ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child and its optional protocol on children in armed conflicts.
We also have specific data indicating that, last August, more than 200 women were sexually assaulted in one single camp, and that is something that humanitarian organisations had been warning us about.
With regard to things that are happening today, in another camp of displaced people, rather than being protected, women have been raped and are being prevented from reaching&#160;… &#160;&#160; Mr President, the situation in Darfur is extremely grave.
The Government of Sudan is pouring its troops into the region and the extension of the African Union’s mandate by three months is only a breathing space.
Those of us from Parliament who visited Darfur in 2004 saw with our own eyes razed houses scattered with empty shell cases.
There is no more urgent task for international diplomacy than to work with Russian and China to isolate Sudan and impose a UN presence in Darfur.
At the same time, the number of people dependent upon humanitarian assistance has risen to nearly 3 million.
This month more than 30 new cases of cholera have been reported.
Without true peace, the humanitarian effort will collapse and hundreds of thousands of people who fled their homes to save their lives will now once again face death. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to repeat what has just been said about the situation in Darfur in all its frightful cruelty.
It is clear, then, that the right of veto in the Security Council must be abolished.
No country on earth must be allowed to use a veto to allow genocide to continue.
People are being driven from their homes, brutally, in what Jean Ziegler described as a ‘dreadful tragedy’, but it is pretty easy to say that troops should be sent, as provided for in the UN resolution.
You all know what this UN Resolution says; it says that the Sudanese Government – as is customary – must give its consent, and that is precisely what the Sudanese Government is not going to do.
The European Union’s part in this really is what the Council and the Commission have described it as being.
The call for people to be helped sounds wonderful, then, and it is one that I certainly endorse, but it should be realistic and should actually result in more humanitarian aid being provided. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I would prefer not to speak at all, in protest at both your and our ineptitude.
The Sudanese Government, a partner or constituent part of Al-Qaeda, longstanding home to Osama, staunch ally of Al-Tourabi, literally practices ethnic cleansing, raping and impregnating tens of thousands of women in the cause of Arab-ness and membership of the League of Arab States.
The mission of the African Union has reached breaking point.
Our glorious African intervention leaves two million people in exile and half a million dead.
It shames me that as a member of Parliament’s Investigation Committee I took on more responsibility when I visited Darfur and Abéché, and yet today all I can do is prattle on, if you will excuse the expression.
The Commission, the Council and the European members of the United Nations Security Council must, as a matter of urgency, confront Sudan by sending UN forces to the Darfur region with a robust mandate under Chapter VII of the Charter.
The Sudanese Government must be punished if they persist in thwarting the efforts of the international community in Darfur.
A multinational force must be sent immediately to eastern Chad to protect the refugees, to prepare the UN force in Darfur, to control the border between Chad and Sudan and to restore some stability in the region.
Lastly, the EU must not remain silent over the role of China, Russia and the Arab League in supporting Khartoum’s strategy of genocide.
After the UN enshrined the principle of the responsibility to protect, Moscow, Beijing and Arab capitals have shamed themselves by seeking to sweep the lessons of Rwanda, Bosnia and Congo under the carpet when it comes to Darfur, where a Muslim population is being massacred by Muslims. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when back in August the United Nations humanitarian aid coordinator, Jean Egeland, pointed out to us that the situation in Darfur was the worst it had been since 2004, he was also reminding us once again that it has long been time to resolve this situation.
Three very specific things can be done with regard to Darfur: firstly, very directly, we can impose sanctions aimed directly at any actor, including the government, which is currently breaching the ceasefire or directly attacking humanitarian operations and, as has also been said specifically, and I would emphasise this, attacking the civil population, particularly women.
Secondly, the African Union can and must be used to a greater extent, in order to ensure that the different parties accept at least part of the Darfur peace agreement, but, to this end, the support of international partners, including the European Union, is also needed.
The whole world is aware that the region has continuously been at war since 2003.
Alarm bells have been rung in recent weeks by humanitarian organisations working in Sudan.
Twelve international aid workers have been killed in Darfur since the beginning of May alone, which is more than those killed over the last two years.
Even if it were to be reinforced by a further 4&#160;000 soldiers, it would be unable to assist the millions of civilians under attack in the region or to guarantee the security of international organisations and protect refugees.
They range from deploying UN forces in the field, through substantial UN support for the African Union in terms of logistics and equipment, to NATO commitment to resolving the conflict.
We should therefore encourage our African partners to become more strongly committed to finding a solution to this conflict. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, everyone is saying: ‘Darfur is on the brink of the abyss’.
The parties involved in the conflict continue to kill and to rape.
Humanitarian workers are abandoning the area under the pressure of the acts of intimidation and, indeed, murders, since 13 have been killed over the last few weeks.
The conflict is threatening the entire sub-region, extending, as it does, to Chad and to the Central African Republic.
It seems that all is now set for the final assault.
It is a very cruel game that is paid for each day in hundreds of human lives.
However, a firmer political commitment is now vital.
The priority is to act as quickly as possible and to deploy, in accordance with Resolution&#160;1706, a United Nations peacekeeping force with a mandate to use force if necessary to protect the civilians.
Furthermore, if appeals to reason are not enough, well, let us clear the way for sanctions: an oil embargo, an international arrest warrant, and individually targeted sanctions against the perpetrators of atrocities and, in particular, against the 51 people whose names appear on the list passed on to the International Criminal Court.
Ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament will not allow the first genocide of the 21st century to take place, in silence and practically in front of its very own eyes. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of my speech is to strip away the last veil of hypocrisy surrounding the Khartoum government’s stance.
In 2000, I went on a visit to Sudan together with the Members of this Parliament who also sit in the ACP Assembly.
It is therefore crucial for Europe’s institutions to adopt emergency measures, such as those described just now by Mrs&#160;Carlotti, in order to bring on board everyone who cares deeply about the lives of a generation. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the Darfur peace agreement was concluded in May 2006, and not one single deadline in this treaty has been met since then.
Rape, carried out systematically, is still being used as a means of waging war, and a sharp increase in the number of rapes was recorded over the last three months.
The Sudanese Government is still opposed to a UN mission, which would have significantly more resources, troops and powers than the present African Union peace mission, which is largely ineffective.
Much as the expansion of the African peace mission to 11&#160;000 police officers and soldiers in the Western Sudan is to be welcomed, the African Union’s continuing and collective support for UN troops shows that this can be seen as no more than a transitional measure.
It is evident that the Sudanese Government is already planning to send its own troops to protect the region.
We therefore call on the Sudanese Government to comply with Chapter&#160;7 of the UN Charter and accept the presence in Darfur of a UN peacekeeping force of the kind provided for in Security Council Resolution 1706.
Every attempt must be made to prevent another genocide on the continent of Africa. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as two Sudanese survivors told me, we need to break the silence suffered by the victims of the genocide.
Europe must put real pressure on and show itself to be more offensive in demanding an end to the atrocities and the massacres and in demanding the deployment of the United Nations forces in order to protect the civilian populations in Darfur.
This can only be achieved by means of diplomatic efforts and very strong international involvement.
For once, the army can intervene in a positive way in order to come between the murderers and the murdered.
We must demand a solution to the militias and we must call for the delivery of humanitarian aid.
With Resolution 1701 on Lebanon we had international action for its full application.
Two sets of standards for this major humanitarian crisis which is ultimately also undermining our common European values and principles.
I believe, Commissioner, that the European Union basically has a moral responsibility, not only a political and strategic responsibility, to take initiatives.
China is one of the countries which is responsible for the prolongation of this impasse, of this crisis.
The Arab League has the same responsibility.
We gaze down from Brussels and Strasbourg on events in Sudan, despite the fact that the European Union arose from a political and moral protest against crimes of that nature.
Each successive enlargement was heralded by the same clarion call: never again, never again will we allow such crimes against humanity, never again will we permit ethnic cleansing, never again will we tolerate genocide!
Over the coming weeks, the Union should focus on exerting effective pressure on the government in Khartoum to ensure that it agrees to the deployment of UN peacekeeping troops on Sudanese territory.
Should that endeavour not be successful, and should the government in Khartoum continue to refuse to countenance the presence of UN peacekeepers on its territory, then it would be appropriate to further increase the logistical and material support provided to the African Union mission to Sudan.
I can assure you that the Council does not view the situation in Sudan and Darfur apathetically.
We all agree that developments there have been very worrying, and we must do everything in our power now and in the future to improve the security and humanitarian situation in Darfur.
We are maintaining active diplomatic contact with the various parties and third countries in order to gain the widest possible support for the UN Resolution and its implementation, and to be able to step up the pressure on the Sudanese Government.
Special Representative Pekka Haavisto has an important role to play in Sudan in ensuring that all parties there commit to this peace process, as otherwise there can be no lasting peace.
It is very important, and a positive sign, that the African Union has, through its AMIS operation, shown itself to be strongly committed to resolving this crisis.
That dedication has had the support of the European Union, and this continues to be the case, as the EU lends support to the AMIS operation in the form of logistics, material aid, planning assistance and other similar measures.
The African Union has decided to increase its peacekeeping presence – that is, its AMIS operation – by an additional 4&#160;000 troops, meaning there will be a total of 11&#160;000 troops stationed in the region.
When the UN operation is finally underway in the region, the easiest way to promote its acceptability in the eyes of the Sudanese Government may be for it to be made up of African and Asian troops.
We also have to remember that the other neighbouring countries in the region have a very important role to play when it comes to border issues and refugee problems.
The human rights situation in the area is very worrying, as has been mentioned in this debate.
With regard to the issue of genocide, and the use of this term in particular, we should remember that the International Criminal Court is investigating this at present, and the European Union supports the work it is doing.
There is not just one key to a solution on Darfur and Sudan.
It is very important that we make progress along all the paths open to us in an effective, broad-based, and coordinated way, and in a spirit of cooperation. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree entirely with the conclusions expressed by the Minister, who is representing the Presidency.
Today's debate, however, touches on a much more general political problem that is extremely important for this Parliament and for the European Union’s institutions in general: the Union’s role as the promoter and defender of fundamental rights outside its borders.
We often wonder whether the European Union can and must (I personally think it can and it must) be a standard-bearer throughout the world for the fundamental rights primarily of respect for human dignity – human dignity that has been utterly destroyed in the Darfur tragedy.
For it to play that role, however, the great political debate that we must address is how Europe can take these values beyond its borders and uphold them when there are other parties like the Sudanese Government, which tolerates and encourages fundamentalism and the most violent, horrible excesses committed by the militias.
We have to work with the local institutions and, in my view, the first part of the solution will be to work with the African Union, strengthening its role and ensuring that it gets the practical help it needs.
We do not want Europe to be seen as aloof one moment and suddenly in there the next, deploying troops and weaponry and playing a role that, if anything, the African Union ought to be consolidating and strengthening.
The second step along this path will be to provide logistical assistance on the ground.
Logistical assistance on the ground is thus another area where we, the European Union, can make a difference.
The third step, which has not really been given enough weight by some people, is how to work with the Arab League.
Ladies and gentlemen, we come up against the sensitivities of Islamic or Arab countries in many parts of the world.
In some cases they are our staunch allies, as in the fight against terrorism, for instance.
The difference is that in the case of Lebanon there was an agreement, and the troops went in as peacekeepers because the Lebanese Government and the Israeli Government both accepted it.
I have always been of the opinion that military action must only be used as a last resort, even if humanitarian intervention is justified under Article&#160;7 of the Treaty.
I wonder, therefore, whether it might not be better to work on an initiative – which might not solve the problem but it would help – such as stopping aircraft from overflying the area and killing people with bombs and air strikes.
They will be sending the highest echelons of the Sudanese Government a strong message explaining that the European Union intends to take strong diplomatic action, as well as action on the ground to help the people who are suffering.
Another very important point that the Commission’s action will address is the role of women and children.
Personally, therefore, I hope that this Parliament will stand firm in its measures on Darfur precisely so as to provide special protection for women and children, who are, as always, the victims most at risk. &#160;&#160; – I have received 6 motions for a resolution in accordance with Rule 103 (2) of the Rules of Procedure(1).
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the report by Mr Sajjad Karim, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the EU's economic and trade relations with India [2006/2034(INI)], (A6-0256/2006). &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the geopolitical centre of gravity shifts to Asia in the 21st century, if you look at India you see the future.
Its commitment to democracy, pluralism and the rule of law guarantees consistency in trade relations.
With our shared history and commitment to secular government and religious pluralism, the EU and India are natural partners.
We became strategic partners in June 2004, yet it was another year before a joint action plan was agreed.
Even today, the Commissioner lacks the authorisation to turn the work of the high-level trade groups into a concrete deal.
In the meantime, President Bush has succeeded in brokering a quite frankly worrying US-India nuclear deal.
The Doha round remains the chief mechanism for shaping equitable globalisation.
A free trade agreement with India must be central to the Commission’s new global Europe strategy.
India must match our resolve and bolster its promises for Helsinki.
No strategy for economic growth is complete without addressing the growing crisis of climate change.
India’s future growth is dependent on meeting spiralling energy needs.
The uneven distribution of the benefits of globalisation has left nearly four million people living on less than one dollar per day.
EU assistance must be directed to lagging regions and under-represented social groups.
The report is comprehensive, addressing almost all possible aspects of EU-India economic and trade relations.
Our cooperation with India is manifold and it is difficult to address it exhaustively in this speech.
Therefore, I will point to some of the main features that respond to your concerns and also update the House in more detail on the trade and investment issues.
Generally, our cooperation is good and is making progress.
Regarding employment and social issues, the Commission and the Indian Labour Minister agreed in a bilateral meeting a work programme for 2006 and 2007 based on the Joint Action Plan.
More broadly, following a bilateral meeting between Commissioner Almunia and the Indian Finance Minister, the launch of regular macroeconomic dialogue has been proposed.
Poverty alleviation has been the central objective in all projects.
Encouragingly, our State Partnership Programmes with Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, amounting to a total contribution of EUR&#160;160 million towards supporting water management, education and health, have been signed and can now be implemented.
Turning to trade and investment relations with India, I welcome the fact that the conclusions of the report adopted by the International Trade Committee fully support the Commission's approach.
More specifically, the Committee has called on the European Union to enter into a free trade agreement (FTA) with India.
India is keen to launch a free trade agreement with the European Union as soon as possible.
The European Union seeks to build on and complement its commitment to the multilateral WTO trading system with a new generation of bilateral FTAs, in particular with key growing markets in Asia.
An EU-India FTA can build on WTO multilateral liberalisation by addressing areas, such as trade and services, public procurement markets, competition policy and regulatory harmonisation, that are related directly to EU trading strengths not yet fully addressed by WTO rules or standards.
We do not just want to launch but to prepare the ground for successful negotiations.
Finally, I also share the committee’s concern about the low level of intra-regional trade in the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation and its recommendation to SAARC to review opportunities to expand trade and investment in the region.
It is a complex report, as is only to be expected, since presenting an overview of economic and commercial cooperation between the European Union and India, whilst also highlighting the challenges facing the latter, is a complex task.
I appreciate the significance of the economic and commercial issues contained in the report, but I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur for supporting the opinion of the Committee on Development, and viewing India not just as a country undergoing dynamic economic development, a country with great potential and an important trading and economic partner for Europe, but also as a country with a particularly complex social structure, and a country of great inequalities in terms of development levels and in the distribution of profits gained.
At the same time, India is a country struggling with major problems that are typical for developing countries, such as poverty or illiteracy.
As I emphasised in my report for the Committee on Development, the main thrust of the strategic partnership between the European Union and India must continue to be work aimed at attaining the Millennium Development Goals and the war on poverty.
I would like to draw attention to two significant development policy issues which affect cooperation between the European Union and India.
Economic growth in India has averaged 6% a year over the last ten&#160;years.
Nonetheless, almost 30% of India’s population, some 400&#160;million people, are still living below the poverty line, existing on less that a dollar a day.
It is vital that economic and trade cooperation between the European Union and India helps to redress this unfortunate imbalance.
India can assume from this resolution that the whole of Europe is united in its desire to cooperate with a country with such a great historical heritage and economic potential.
Of course, for our part, we shall highlight the difficulties affecting the people of India.
As shadow rapporteur, I move that it be adopted as it stands. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner, and also thank the rapporteur for this excellent report, which touches on all the issues that are relevant when talking about India.
The Commissioner mentioned one specific point to which I think we should give in-depth consideration, and that is that India might finally become a geopolitical centre in the 21st century.
So I would like to point out to the rapporteur and the House that my Group will be a little more cautious when it comes to a free-trade agreement.
The Commission will produce its new policy report on 4 October, in only a few weeks.
So we will not support a free-trade agreement at the moment, because we want to have a debate in our Group first and we want to be clear that Parliament will be fully involved in the debate and the consultation process.
Therefore, we should promote cooperation and invite the Indian regulators to take part in joint European Union and third country expert groups in drafting relevant legislation to ensure that appropriate conditions for common work are provided for in the early stages.
They are discussed, but in very general terms.
They are mentioned, but in conjunction with the Adivasis, as if all that was at issue was a general problem involving minorities.
The Dalits are a despised underclass in several countries, but they are, in particular, India’s problem.
What is more, the EU deals in Indian products without asking candid questions about how they were made.
It is a nasty business for India, but it is almost more awkward for Europe, which is well aware of what is happening.
The problem needs to be on the EU’s agenda, and it is disgraceful that it is not clearly included in this report. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I offer Mr&#160;Karim and all the Committee on International Trade my heartfelt thanks for the excellent work that they have done on this report.
India is the world’s most populous democracy and, with a growth rate of 9% in 2005 alone, its rapid economic development as well as its geopolitical characteristics represent yet another challenge to the European Union on the world’s markets.
In India, 400&#160;million people live on less than a dollar a day.
It is not a simple matter to talk of India on account of its vast size and all the variables that that entails, but India also represents a major hope for improving the distribution of international trade.
India is also a great country with an extremely fast-growing GDP and a highly competent class of people able to keep up with the new international challenges in the field of advanced technology.
The economy is moving ahead in many regions, and the gates have been opened to foreign investment, although Europe seems so far to have been excluded.
Hence we see a need to form a strategic partnership between these two great blocks, in order to create a more fertile climate for cooperation, with better mutual understanding to bring down the barriers between us by adhering to mutually agreed rules.
The recent disagreements in the Doha Round in Geneva led to a few difficulties, but India and the European Union should accept the responsibility of revitalising a multilateral framework.
As a country at an advanced stage of development but with profound social imbalances, this Asian giant needs a stronger European presence that can help it achieve more balanced growth.
On the European side, there has to be a fair, open approach aimed at reinforcing Europe’s presence in India and duly supporting our initiatives in that part of the world.
What is happening, as should also happen in connection with the growing economic expansion of China, is that Europe is seeking a strategy for itself in relation to the rest of the world.
Therefore, while we have the utmost respect for the traditions of this great country, we need to call on the Indian political and economic classes and the companies that operate in India to adopt a highly responsible position and to use every means to fight the problem of children who work rather than study, promoting instead the expansion of literacy, which is the real hope for people in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, economic analysts are of the opinion that, by 2015, India, which is considered to be an ‘Asian tiger’, will have become the fourth most powerful economy in the world.
In the first quarter of this year, the rate of growth of the Indian economy increased to over 9%.
As it moves on from being a developing country and comes to be recognised as a developed one, India is aspiring to catch up with China and take the lead in Asia.
India’s industry has risen to global challenges and welcomes science-based development as a business strategy.
They should become an advantage in terms of our bilateral relations.
There are other factors, however, that the Union ought to draw to India’s attention.
Over 390&#160;million Indian citizens are living on less than a dollar a day and the statistics for child labour in India are amongst the highest in the world.
The war on poverty must become a key feature of the strategic partnership between the European Union and India.
Mr&#160;Karim has drawn up a good report that deserves our support. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party, and I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Karim on the welcome approach taken in his report.
As a representative of the European Parliament and a member of the Committee on Development, I can only be delighted that India has signed up to the Millennium Development Goals and that, through its actions, the Indian Government has shown for some time that it can be a reliable partner for possible future interaction and collaboration, not least in the commercial arena.
I feel, however, that the efforts made so far in the fight against child labour, dumping – especially in the textile and footwear industries – and piracy, and to steer development along ecologically sound lines have been feeble and insufficient.
The Union has a duty to support and encourage India so as to resolve such substantial problems by means of long-awaited and far-reaching structural reforms.
Asia’s largest democracy has a responsibility to implement well-defined social reforms in order to overcome today’s caste-based society, which has considerable adverse effects both on access to education and services and on the more general condition of women’s lives.
If the system were improved, it could and should lead to the development of long-term peaceful relations with its neighbouring countries, not least by increasing trade with Pakistan.
Having been on its knees for a long time, it is now ready to get up and play its part on the world stage. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the size and dynamic rate of growth make India an important trading and economic partner of the Union.
As we all know, India is the only large, dynamically developing economy in Asia where the European Union has a leading position in terms of foreign trade and outgoing foreign investments.
In my opinion, the results of exploratory contracts on a bilateral trade and investment agreement are a positive development.
Issues of common interest, such as more effective protection for intellectual property and geographical indications are especially important.
Finally, one important parameter of the broader strategic partnership is further support for synergies in the sector of science and technology.
If India overcomes its infrastructure problems, most notably its persistent power cuts and poor transport networks, then I believe that within a generation it has the potential to be Europe’s largest trading partner, more important than China or the United States.
I therefore welcome what Commissioner Borg said about the High Level Trade Group’s recommendations.
I believe we should intensify our trade and investment relations with India.
The GSP places an obligation on India to improve its core labour standards.
India must do more to tackle child labour and bonded labour, and must sign up to ILO Convention 98 on the right to organise and the right to collective bargaining.
India signed up to the Millennium Development Goals and the EU, with our cooperation, should help by facilitating universal education, Eurohealth programmes and policies to get young people from poor areas into work.
I believe that trade and development go hand in hand, but only if we work at it.
I welcome the report’s emphasis on both those aspects of our relations with India. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the economic and trade relations between the European Union and India are of paramount importance for both partners, and it is for that reason that both the EU and India must make every effort to remove any unnecessary obstacles, not least in the framework of the World Trade Organisation.
The fact is that the multilateral trade system offers a country such as India enormous potential.
Furthermore, the current human rights dialogue between the EU and India has got off to an encouraging start.
At the same time, there have also been worrying developments.
The massive growth in the economy is very unevenly spread: 40% of the population are illiterate.
Ever-continuing discrimination based on the caste system in the country contributes to the unequal distribution of wealth and even the dwindling opportunities for economic growth.
Positive discrimination is an example of this.
If the situation continues, much of the Indian people’s potential and many of their skills will remain untapped.
At the same time, I would make a serious request to the Council that it should put the following issues on the agenda of the EU-India Summit in Helsinki: the status of India’s disadvantaged, its environmental problems and how prepared it is to cope with natural disasters.
Furthermore, the dialogue on energy which was begun in the spring should continue, because the main determining factor in India’s future economic growth is its ability to meet its demand for energy, one that is growing at a staggering rate. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, with only a few weeks to go before the next EU-India summit, we must pay tribute to Europe’s commitment to put more effort into its cooperation with India.
This great democracy is not only one of our privileged partners in Asia, but it is also an actor with ever greater responsibilities, both regionally and internationally.
Enhanced university cooperation between India and the European Union is indeed crucial, but we must ensure at all costs that we counter any possible brain drain, as that would deprive this country of its greatest asset.
Not only would a decision such as that be premature, but I must point out that the European Union has committed itself to acting first and foremost within the context of the Doha Round.
To talk from now on about supporting bilateral negotiations would run counter to the principles that we have been upholding for months and would be a very bad sign for the multilateral structure that we earnestly desire.
If our aim is indeed to have trade work in favour of development, then our trade relations will have to be conceived in a concerted and gradual manner within a rational and solid framework with our partner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the EU’s strategic partnership with democratic India is of vital importance for both the EU and India.
I welcome the strengthening of political and economic dialogue and engagement as well as discussions on human rights at the India-EU Summit on 13 October.
We are already India’s biggest trading partner, at some EUR 40 billion annually, and we collaborate now on high-tech projects such as Galileo and ITER, demonstrating the sophistication of India’s 8% annual growth economy.
I also call for enhanced regional cooperation and economic integration of India and Pakistan with SAARC and SAFTA, which enhances the confidence-building measures between the two states which, until recently, were on the verge of war.
The line of control between the divided regions of Jammu and Kashmir could eventually be just a line on the map, if people, goods and services could flow freely.
India is fast becoming the prime south-Asian geopolitical player and it is high time that the UN Security Council admitted the largest democracy in the world to its ranks as a permanent member.
China is our second largest trading partner, but the EU does not share the same fundamental values with it as we do with India.
Coming from Britain, with our traditional links to India, I commend the Karim report and call on the Commission to develop a much deeper political and economic India-EU relationship culminating in a bilateral free trade agreement. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too wish to take my turn in congratulating Mr&#160;Karim on the truly important report which he has presented to us.
The recent Mittal-Arcelor case demonstrated that we must not continue at European level to follow this division between the individual interests of the European Union.
India, as we have said, is a very important factor.
All these issues must be put to India if we really want an operational, effective and democratic multilateral trade system. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating Mr Karim on the excellent and extensive report on the EU’s economic and trade relations with India.
I am therefore delighted that the British Conservative Leader, David Cameron, is devoting particular attention to relations with India.
He seized the opportunity while with the business community in Mumbai recently to set out his views on globalisation.
It has become a tragic fact of life in India as well, not just in Kashmir but in Mumbai where 200 people were murdered in July and in Malegaon on 8 September 2006, where some 40 people were killed.
The precise responsibility for these attacks is still unclear, but there is strong suspicion of external involvement.
In order to proceed with the welcome and ongoing peace process between India and Pakistan, Pakistan must implement the solemn assurances it has given to stop all cross-border terrorism and to deliver on the words of President Musharraf in this Parliament on 12 September 2006.
This threat can be defeated only by the concerted efforts of our nations and agencies working together in close cooperation.
The two largest democracies in the world account together for over 1.5&#160;million people, and are in a position to create a new world economic order.
At the time, we promised each other growth in terms of mutual investments, trade exchanges, youth exchanges and cooperation between businesses and institutions of higher education.
I call on Parliament and the Commission to review their policy and remain true to the agreements signed within the framework of a strategic partnership between the Union and India. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, despite economic growth of between 5% and 7% per year, India remains a country of great contrasts.
The Union’s trade with India amounts to less than 20% of its trade with China.
The Union has already declared itself in favour of significant concessions within the framework of WTO negotiations.
The Union could draw on its past experience to help resolve the problems associated with the significant imbalance in regional development in India, where the west and south of the country differ greatly from the east and the north.
I come from one of the new Member States and I can definitely confirm that direct foreign investment has played a significant role in the current dynamic economic growth that we have experienced in Central and Eastern Europe.
Indeed, the same applies to India, which is the third most attractive country in the world in terms of foreign investment, with Europe being one of the biggest investors, accounting for investments of more than EUR&#160;1&#160;billion in 2004.
Many of those areas will no doubt form the subject of discussions at the EU-India Business Summit on 12&#160;October 2006 and the Political Summit on 13 October 2006, with a view to making progress in all areas of EU-India relations.
The issue of the free trade agreement with India presents us with a number of possibilities.
An agreement with India would present various advantages, such as the consolidation of the European Union's privileged position in an important and growing market.
Whilst there have been sizeable reforms, access to India's market is still very restricted, with applied tariffs in certain sectors at over 30% and many caps on foreign direct investment (FDI) in the services sector.
The reduction of tariffs for EU companies and the liberalisation of trade in services would secure access to a rapidly growing market and thereby contribute to competitiveness.
A secondary benefit would be to lock in India's economic reforms to the advantage of its and the region's long-term economic growth.
The visibility and economic benefits of an FTA with the European Union would support India's programme of reforms and provide a more stable investment climate.
The successful outcome of the DDA multilateral trade negotiations remains their foremost trade-policy priority.
In the speech which Commissioner Mandelson delivered in Berlin on 18&#160;September 2006, he indicated that the central strand of the October trade policy review would argue that the EU should seek to build on and complement its commitment to the multilateral trading system with a new generation of bilateral free trade agreements with key growing markets.
While Europe continues to be highly competitive in global export markets, European companies are losing ground in the highest technology products and the fastest growing markets.
In rapidly growing regions such as Asia, the European Union is underperforming.
Finally, as many of you have said during the discussion, strengthening EU-India relations represents a great hope: that of reducing the wealth gap existing in that country, of improving the conditions for workers and ensuring better standards of protection for all workers, in particular for women and children, and of improving the quality of life of the Indian people in general which, as has rightly been pointed out, is still such that 190&#160;million people live on less than USD&#160;1 a day. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12&#160;noon.
In contrast to last month’s debate on EU-China relations, his work and report have been a model of cooperation and consensus and my Group and I will be supporting his report.
First, we in the PSE Group do not want any hint that a bilateral FTA can substitute for a successful completion of the Doha Development Round.
I can only commiserate with the people of India. &#160;&#160; Given the strong ties which exist between my own Member State and India, I am naturally keen that the EU does all in its power to help India realise its enormous potential for economic development.
Having had the privilege to visit India on a number of occasions, I have been deeply impressed by the rate of economic development there over recent years and particularly in key 21st century industries such as information technology.
Improving economic and trade relations will prove to be of mutual benefit to both the EU and India, but it is essential that a key objective of our contribution to economic development is the eradication of poverty.
This must be maintained as a top priority of our strategic partnership.
I congratulate the rapporteur on his report. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0254/2006) by Mrs&#160;Breyer, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on perspectives of women in international trade (2006/2009(INI)). &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, I would take the liberty of tabling a procedural motion at the start of our debate on Mrs&#160;Breyer’s report.
My remark concerns the translation, into the various official languages of the European Union, of the motion for a resolution on women and international trade.
Globalisation and the liberalisation of world trade are not gender-neutral, and so I am glad to be able to present this own-initiative report on ‘perspectives of women in international trade’ on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
Microcredit and development aid will amount to no more than a drop in the ocean if we do not make a start on making fundamental changes to these global economic structures.
Although it, in the past, set milestones for equality of opportunity in Europe, there is a yawning gulf when it comes to realising this principle in global trade policy.
As a first step, we demand gender mainstreaming in international trade policy, with explicit monitoring and assessment mechanisms, the latter of which might, for example, involve ranking the Member States in terms of their promotion of gender equity on the labour market.
We call on the Commission to present an annual progress report on equality in international trade, and also to set up a fund to help women get access to loans and education.
The Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality intends to organise a hearing on the subject next week.
If women are to achieve equality with men in terms of their access to power and occupying of decision-making positions, then quotas are still indispensable; effective quotas that represent more than lip-service will help to establish gender parity in international trade relations, and so I am glad that the Committee on Women’s Rights has drawn on an initiative taken in Norway, where companies quoted on the stock exchange have been required, with effect from 2006, to increase to 40% the percentage of women on supervisory boards.
The European Commission welcomes the report of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality.
For the European Union, the purpose of global governance is to make possible development that is socially, economically and environmentally sustainable.
Nonetheless, the rapid changes in national economies that can result from globalisation also provide challenges to policy-makers to ensure that the benefits and opportunities of globalisation are maximised and the short-term costs in certain sectors are minimised.
The European Commission believes that clear social conditions underpin sustainable productivity growth and promote the efficient production of high-quality goods and services generating a net added value.
Policies that mitigate the adverse effects of a changing economy on specific groups of people or regions, good social services and social protection accessible to all, social dialogue, the respect for fundamental social rights including core labour standards, minimum standards for working conditions and for ensuring workers’ upstream involvement in managing change – all these play a crucial role.
The European Commission promotes core labour rights in EU trade policy.
Core labour standards are defined by the ILO to include Convention No 100 on equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value, and Convention No 111 on discrimination in the workplace.
Nevertheless, the Commission is committed to addressing trade and social development, core labour standards and commitment to meaningful dialogue between the WTO and the International Labour Organization, both in the EU’s own trade policy review and the trade policy reviews of other countries.
The European Commission has also pursued social development objectives in regional, bi-regional and bilateral arrangements.
All its most recent agreements recognise and promote social rights as part of the universal objective of decent work for all.
The objective is to further social progress with a view to promoting benefits for all.
Currently, some 180 developing countries and dependent territories are granted GSP.
In the framework of the new GSP scheme, adopted on 27 June 2005 by the Council, a GSP-plus initiative for sustainable development provides additional tariff preferences for countries that have signed and effectively implemented UN and ILO conventions on human rights and labour rights, including those on gender equality.
The EC is also developing a close relationship with the International Labour Organization on trade-related matters aimed at promoting core labour standards through assessment, capacity-building and enforcement in developing countries.
In 2005-2006 the Commission has been funding an ILO pilot project aiming to develop decent work indicators in developing countries for examining the relationship between decent work and trade liberalisation.
The Commission will explore the potential to use these indicators in future aid programmes with developing countries to help them manage social adjustment to globalisation, and the report will be submitted to the European Parliament.
The European Commission will also look into the potential for using decent work indicators as part of trade sustainability impact assessments. &#160;&#160; . – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, I am grateful to our fellow Member, Mrs&#160;Breyer, for her motion for a resolution, which was unanimously adopted within my committee.
The globalisation and liberalisation of the economy do not just make successes out of people.
That is why I ask what place the weakest have in society and what resources there are to promote a solidarity economy.
Politicians and economists must be creative in their efforts to ensure that men and women can really flourish and must promote the common public good without excessive government interference, which would harm the national economies.
Paragraphs&#160;15 and 26 mention the classification of the Member States.
However, since 1951, this classification has appeared in the International Labour Organisation conventions signed by the Member States of the European Union.
The paragraphs that deal with the relations with third countries emphasise that women, as economic players, must be recognised in all of the activities they carry out in terms of personal, family and educational development and in all of the duties they perform within society.
The unpaid and informal work done by women deserves greater recognition in European policies.
This resolution also reminds us that we, in the West, must avoid at all costs any form of neo-colonialism and that we must respect the cultures of our economic partners, while ensuring the abolition of all forms of discrimination between men and women.
That is why I encourage my group to endorse this resolution in the hope that, in the not too distant future, the political declarations on equality between men and women will finally be reflected in economic life. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, as a result of the roles and duties traditionally ascribed to women and men in certain societies, women continue to be deprived of access to education and proper health care.
This situation has a negative impact on long term development.
By setting a good example, which I trust will become the norm in time, the European Union can demonstrate to third countries that women must not be treated as second class citizens and must have the opportunity to benefit from full access to the market, to credit and to capital goods.
In addition, it is important for both the institutions of the European Union and the Member States to include gender equality and equal opportunity issues in the aims identified within the framework of all European funding programmes.
The Member States should make an effort to develop national political measures that will foster gender equality and increase female employment.
The Norwegian Government’s decision to bring in a law requiring 40% female representation on the boards of joint stock companies is a splendid example to follow and should be emulated by other Member States.
Women must have an equal right to participate in economic life, especially in the poorest countries.
Potentially helpful measures include universal access to so-called ‘micro-credits’, which would help to combat poverty amongst women, promote self-sufficiency and raise their social status.
This would ensure that gender issues and problems which primarily affect women are taken into account within the framework of trade negotiations at global level.
I should also like to sincerely congratulate Mrs&#160;Breyer on a very well prepared document. &#160;&#160; Madam President, one of the basic truths of our society is gender inequality.
This gender power structure is present in every aspect of our society and it hampers growth and every kind of sustainability.
This report by my colleague Mrs Breyer, on behalf of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, is a very good starting point for the urgent work ahead in the specific area of trade relations in the world.
As she points out, women in general experience more difficulties in gaining access to education, property, credit, other resources and factors of production, as well as political decision-making bodies, and these inequalities restrict women’s ability to use the advantages of trade liberalisation.
For instance, a large number of women throughout the world are denied opportunities to improve their economic and social conditions and, at the same time, many of them have the added responsibility of caring for children and the household.
A structural change in the EU’s common agricultural policy is an important strengthening of these women in third world countries.
However, gender inequality is not just something that exists in poor countries: the representation of women in politics and business is also very low in the Member States of the Union.
But, basically, this report addresses a number of issues concerning the systematic and thoroughly unjust gender inequality affecting international trade relations.
In the same way as the agreements are often beneficial to industrialised countries and harmful to developing countries, women and men are, in different ways, placed at, respectively, a disadvantage or advantage by trade agreements.
Gender is relevant because gender relations affect the distribution of, and access to, resources, work, income and power.
Gender affects our behaviour as economic actors.
Women’s work in the reproductive sphere is unpaid and has been rendered invisible.
These factors mean that women and men are affected differently, and a gender analysis is therefore incredibly important if we are to be able to design a trade policy that promotes equality and breaks down patriarchal structures.
Trade policy negotiations must take practical account of all the conventions, such as the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, like other European Union documents, the report on prospects for women in international trade confirms that liberalisation, globalisation, and the free market are a paradise open only to very rich, well-educated and powerful individuals who are totally bereft of scruples.
This is all the more disturbing because it is happening behind a façade of lofty ideals such as human rights, equal rights, equal opportunities for all, equal treatment in the workplace and many other popular slogans that are, on the whole, light years removed from reality. &#160;&#160; World trade influences women’s social status today in the same way as it does for all of those who are involved in some form of economic activity.
Trade liberalisation has had its benefits and its drawbacks.
The benefits associated with trade liberalisation and globalisation as far as women are concerned include, in particular, new and often well-paying jobs.
Compared with men, however, their compensation is in most cases 20 to 50% lower for the same work.
In the majority of instances, trade liberalisation benefits only big business.
According to the WTO, trade is a&#160;neutral area, based on the assumption that trade and market liberalisation are gender neutral, which means that gender equality policy has no direct involvement with this area.
In this context, I&#160;think the WTO should pay more attention to gender equality in the future.
It is interesting to note that almost all WTO Member States have signed the Beijing Platform for Action.
Even though the participation of women in private sector trade is remarkable, we need to increase the number of women working in international organisations, such as the WTO, International Monetary Fund, World Bank and other institutions dealing with trade and business.
This should ensure that women are not only part of the production process but also part of the decision-making process, and not only at lower levels but also in executive and managerial positions. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, every day thousands of people, mainly women and children, die due to poverty.
The figures are startling: 2.5&#160;billion people living on less than USD&#160;2 per day, and, as I said, most of them are women.
Women, and especially young women, are easily recruited by international criminal gangs, who promise them well-paid jobs in wealthy countries only to throw them into forced prostitution.
Microfinancing instruments have proved effective in combating poverty and it is women who have benefited most and benefited best, and have succeeded in improving their families’ economic situation.
Studies have shown that women can take part in economic decision-making.
Let us, too, follow the example of Norway, as mentioned earlier. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, not very long ago now, a report on trade and poverty put in an appearance in this House, and the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality tabled a number of very good amendments to it, all of which were adopted.
It is with that in mind that I would like to thank Mrs&#160;Breyer for this own-initiative report, which is the logical response to the imperative need for the issue of the relative roles of trade and women to be once more addressed.
There was the Agnoletto report, which stated that human rights clauses should be incorporated in all international treaties.
Since there are both individual and social human rights, it follows that it is justified – to say the least – that all trade agreements should include clauses on human beings’ social rights, namely the right to education, the right to training, and the right to free health care.
It is quite clear that that approach is eventually going to be taken to GATS, so that women in certain countries will be denied what opportunities they currently have, for those countries will not have the financial resources.
Turning to the subject of quotas, these are always crutches, but they can be bridges.
This lack of knowledge is due to the lack of sufficient data differentiated by gender in the statistics on trade and also the lack of a gender perspective in economic models and analyses.
In this regard, we applaud, for example, the Norwegian Government’s decision to impose by law a 40% quota for women’s participation on the boards of directors of limited companies.
As we know, only highly educated women benefit from liberalised trade, and women all over the world often suffer from the side-effects of globalisation and liberalisation.
Achieving gender equality is the key to development in general.
The strategy of gender mainstreaming is a long-term, step-by-step approach, based on integrating gender issues into both the political and the practical areas.
Strengthened women’s representation and participation in economic and political life contributes significantly to poverty reduction and development and creates more hope for a better future for the next generation. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, economic liberalisation provided the basis for Estonia’s rapid growth.
Liberalisation is now the motor for the economies of Europe and the world, but success has its price, which is increased emotional and economic pressure on families, the uncertainty of labour relations and social stratification.
Globalisation affects women more than it does men, as has been mentioned here.
Their role in making political and economic decisions, however, is unjustifiably small.
This argument, which until now has taken place mostly on the level of emotions and beliefs, requires more facts.
I have for some time called on Estonian society to set the objective of 40% female participation in the councils of companies.
What is possible in Norway could become a reality throughout the world.
The EU has included commitments to the ILO core labour standards in all its recent bilateral trade agreements and the GSP and the GSP-plus, which provide trade preferences to developing countries that ratify ILO conventions.
On the impact of trade liberalisation, I should like to underline that this has provided new opportunities for many women in developing countries, providing new employment and, in many cases, reducing the gender gap in wages leading to greater empowerment and social standing of women in society.
On gender-impact assessments, gender has been included in recent trade sustainability impact assessments.
That is why the Commission will explore the potential of decent work indicators, including data on the work of women and men.
Finally, with regard to the formation of a formal trade and gender desk within DG Trade, I must underline again that within the Commission DG RELEX leads on the monitoring of human rights in third countries.
DG Trade liaises regularly with the RELEX family on human rights with regard to trade agreements, such as GSP, and liaises with the International Labour Organization and DG Employment on labour rights with regard to trade agreements.
Just a few days ago, at a meeting with a delegation from the Committee on Fisheries in the Algarve, representatives from the sector gave a description of the situation, which can be summed up as follows: the fishing industry is facing a serious economic and social crisis that has been getting worse over the years.
The common fisheries policy has fallen short, by promoting the regular, significant scrapping of vessels, resulting in thousands of fishermen leaving a sector that is of strategic importance to some Member States.
The policy should be aimed at feeding the people, full employment, improving the social conditions of the workers, and ensuring the sustainability of companies.
The sector will move forward if practical measures are put in place: emergency measures to address the sharp rises in fuel prices, such as the creation of the guarantee fund, direct temporary support to offset the cost of diesel fuel and petrol, and an increase in aid under the rule.
There should also be a range of measures to guarantee the income of those working in the sector, for example in the setting of first-sale prices, which entails a review of the current rules of the common organisation of the market in fishery products.
Studies should be carried out aimed at identifying measures to increase the value of fish, with a view to channelling the added value into the manufacturing sector without the consumer being penalised.
There also needs to be a targeted support programme for traditional, small-scale inshore fishing.
These were the measures proposed by the sector at its meeting with Parliament.
What is needed is to improve the economic situation in the sector, which above all means addressing the problem of the balance between falling incomes and rising operational costs in the sector.
Similarly, given that successive restrictions on fishing have served to worsen the economic situation in the sector, albeit this is not the only factor, it is difficult to understand why they would be even considered, let alone accepted, as measures to improve the economic situation in the sector.
I also noted with satisfaction that the Conference of Committee Chairmen expressed its appreciation of the Commission’s communication on the economic difficulties of the sector.
We agree with many of the proposals and assessments contained in your report, although we have different views and perspectives on some others regarding, for instance, the short-term support to be given to the sector.
The imbalance between fleet capacity and available resources and the oil price increase are objective causes of the current difficulties faced by the sector.
The Commission has done everything possible to help the sector, taking into account the parameters of Community legislation and the need to ensure that the aid actually contributes to fishing sustainability.
Indeed, our challenge has been to balance the necessity to help the segments most affected by high oil prices with the need to address long-term structural problems.
Action can be taken in the short term by Member States willing to provide support for financial and physical restructuring of fishing enterprises in difficulty, in the framework of national rescue and restructuring schemes.
The new EFF will also provide for more advantageous conditions for scrapping vessels, which was a concern expressed both in your report and that of the Conference of Committee Chairmen.
We have also noted the request for a specific treatment of the long-distance fleet, expressed both in your report and that of the Committee Chairmen.
The communication therefore highlights some policy areas that I want to develop in the coming years to create this more favourable environment.
In conclusion, I would like to thank you once again for your contributions and interest.
They demonstrate how much we all strive to ensure a sustainable and healthy future for the fishing sector.
I am looking forward to a fruitful discussion with you. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, our rapporteur set himself a very difficult task.
Efforts to regulate the situation of specific professional groups carry with them a considerable temptation to heighten social sensitivity, which then often turns into hypersensitivity when short-term political needs accumulate.
The essence of Mr&#160;Guerreiro’s stance is illustrated by amendments such as Amendment&#160;23, which describes the social impact of economic solutions.
In these amendments, the Commission is strongly urged to create new instruments for creating economic programmes that will guarantee the growth of funding in particular.
More moderate opinions are reflected in the amendments relating to long-term maritime policy such as Amendments&#160;3 and 5.
This principle should be applied not only to long-term activities leading to the sustainable development of fisheries, but also short-term actions such as the replacement of engines and fishing equipment.
Mr&#160;Guerreiro’s report is important to the Community fisheries policy and was also the subject of detailed scrutiny in the Committee on Fisheries.
The final version represents the result of multilateral negotiations and a determined effort to arrive at a version with which Members could be satisfied.
Rather, what are needed are regulations that take account of particular situations in all their complexity.
It is generally held that the best way forward is to reduce fishing effort, to use more selective methods, and to introduce positive discrimination in favour of local, small-scale fishing, which is the best way of keeping fish fresh.
In the case in question, however, these general objectives may have to be achieved by means of an increase in the engine capacity and the size of the vessels, which will afford more comfort and safety at work, and by means of investment in diversification into activities such as tourism.
An overly detailed, centralised legislative fabric, far removed from its practical implementation and its actual impact on the situations it is designed to regulate, leads to a proliferation of illegal, unreported and unregulated catches within and outside the Community area.
This in turn widens the gap between the imagined world of the legislation and the real world of the European fish market.
According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation’s manual on preserving the quality of fish, the key principle of a sustainable fisheries policy is to prevent the tragedy of the commons; in other words, if something has no known owner, be it buffalo or fish, everyone will rush to exploit it and will eventually destroy it.
Consequently, it is only by extending responsibility to fishermen and involving them directly that we can think of improving their economic situation on a sustainable basis. &#160;&#160; I agree with the rapporteur’s idea that in regard to improving the economic condition of the fishery sector we need to table the proposals for the attainment of objectives both in the immediate future and in the follow-up monitoring of the measures aimed at triggering material changes in the medium- and long-term.
Since the sector is especially sensitive to the impact of natural conditions, we must develop a system of compensation for losses incurred due to factors beyond our control.
It is necessary to develop a national and Community-level state insurance system that would help the fishery sector survive in the face of natural crises.
I would like to say that I fully support the short-time measures proposed by the rapporteur.
The effect on fishing communities, on the families who depend upon the catching and processing sectors, has been very serious and very stressful.
However, ultimately, I regret to say that the CFP is destined to fail; and the scrapping of the CFP, coupled with a change in government in Scotland, is the only hope for fishing communities in the long-term future in Scotland. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, allow me to congratulate my colleague, Mr&#160;Guerreiro, on his report, which is remarkable and very thorough.
Fishing in general, and small-scale fishing in particular, are, in Europe, in danger of dying out.
It also seems necessary to me to demand central buying offices for supermarkets, with the prices taking account of the real costs incurred by small-scale fishermen.
That temporary tie-up funding is part of a rescue and restructuring package severely curtails its usefulness as a support measure; and that the aid ceiling has only increased to EUR 30&#160;000 over 3 years is also very restrictive and inequitable in relation to other sectors.
I support recommendations that a review of the common organisation of the markets would provide for greater assistance to fishermen and their organisations to become more involved in the marketing and production of fish.
This will be a problem for the restructuring of fishing fleets by implementing decommissioning schemes. &#160;&#160; Madam Chairman, I share the disappointment expressed in this report at the inadequacy of the Commission’s response to the crisis in the fishing industry, but I will not pretend to be surprised.
Precisely when we need to tackle this situation, however, the lack of commitment and support contained in the Commission’s Communication is regrettable, since it only provides for measures offering a long-term solution and, even then, they are the most painful solutions for the sector, such as restructuring of the fleet.
As you know, the fishing industry makes an important contribution to the prosperity and to the economic and social fabric of coastal and island areas and to the maintenance of their cohesion.
I think that it would be a good idea to create a Community support programme for coastal and small-scale fisheries using traditional methods, especially in my country, Greece, where it is the basic source of income for thousands of families in island and remote areas.
The report comes out strongly in defence of employment levels in this sector, which comprises 90&#160;000 vessels and employs some 190&#160;000 workers in Europe.
One of the most important points in the report that I should like to highlight is its appeal to the Commission to guarantee and support the operation and adoption of measures to remedy the high instability of fuel prices, both by creating a guarantee fund for the sector with Community participation, and by implementing the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance in order to reduce operating costs to a minimum.
The period for rescue aid must be extended to 12 months, and the ceiling raised from EUR&#160;30&#160;000 to EUR&#160;100&#160;000.
The European Fisheries Fund must continue to grant aid for the renewal and modernisation of the fleet, in particular to allow the replacement of engines, so as to guarantee crew safety and environmental protection.
The role of research in this area must not be forgotten either.
Research needs to be performed and developed to enhance energy efficiency, reduce costs and ensure protection for fish stocks and fishing systems.
If we just bear those points in mind, we can help those parts of the weakest regions in the European economic system that have close links with fishing to protect their jobs and to continue supplying Europe’s consumers. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, congratulations to the rapporteur on his report.
The fishing industry is in a bad way and is shrinking constantly.
For example, fuel costs have risen by 100%, while fishermen's incomes have fallen by 25% since 2004.
We need to increase compensation and we need to increase the period of support to 12 months.
We need – as we all acknowledge – to have measures to protect the seas, but we also need to support Community fishermen who, in the last analysis, are the only ones fishing under environmental protection rules.
The sea conceals many dangers.
We need to take measures to combat pollution of the seas and measures to combat illegal fishing, so as to protect fish stocks.
Finally, the fishing industry must be saved, because fishermen are an important part of tradition, civilisation and European culture.
We also need more ambition when it comes to promoting innovative actions to increase the presence of fishermen in the commercial chain and improve their living and working conditions, as well as their level of training.
Improving the marketing of fish and fisheries products would increase their added value, Commissioner. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the Commission communication on improving the economic situation in the fishing industry, which, in itself, is indicative of the fact that something must be done to help the sector, with the emphasis on the weakest areas of the common fisheries policy (CFP).
The purpose of the CFP is to guarantee and preserve the balance between the economic and social development of fishing communities and the sustainable management of fishing resources.
It should be noted that, with respect to both aspects of this common policy, the fishermen and their communities are often in a situation that is as vulnerable as, or more vulnerable than, the situation in which many of the threatened species find themselves.
The Commission communication makes its diagnosis, yet fails to provide the solutions that the sector needs and that are largely mentioned in the report by Mr&#160;Guerreiro, whom I take this opportunity to congratulate.
The consequence of the balance between the two strands of the CFP is that we must invest in promoting more selective methods, in small-scale fishing, in aquaculture, in scientific research and in socio-economic aid.
This aid must compensate for the permanent loss of income arising from the disappearance of jobs, and for the reduction in income resulting from recovery plans and from far-reaching changes in cost-effectiveness due to external circumstances.
The Commission must do more in this area.
Thought must be given, moreover, to support for producer organisations, albeit within existing legislative frameworks, in order to ensure greater fairness and to protect those who sustain the sector. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, we all agree on the economic and social importance of the fisheries sector in the EU and on the Commission’s diagnosis that the situation is critical.
Similarly, no one doubts Mr&#160;Borg’s sensitivity to the problem or his desire to minimise the impact within the limits of currently available resources.
This is particularly true of small-scale coastal fishing, which is the most socially vulnerable part of the industry.
The Commission communication and the report before us – and I take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur – are right to warn of an unsustainable situation that must not be allowed to go on.
The Community must respond quickly to the problems of fuel prices, which several previous speakers have mentioned, the stagnation of the price of fish, and the renewal of the fleet without increasing capacity.
I therefore hope that Parliament adopts the report and that the Commission ensures that it is put into practice. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, fishing is an important part of the Union’s economy, yet it has been in crisis for many years.
There is an imbalance between excessively large catches and the resources available.
We should remember that many economically weak regions are dependent on the fisheries sector.
These measures include fishing quotas, restrictions on fishing time, a wide range of subsidies and other forms of assistance.
Scientists, civil servants and fishermen must all unite in order to overcome the difficulties in this sector.
The Union’s fishing industry really needs these financial resources.
In fact, regarding small-scale coastal fisheries, we have catered for specificities in the rescue and restructuring scheme and in the European Fisheries Fund.
One example is the acquisition of new engines or engine renewal.
Regarding the comment by Mr Allister and others that the Commission is taking advantage of the increase in fuel prices to reduce the fleet, let me repeat the facts as I know them.
Those are the facts.
The vast majority of stocks are being fished in a completely unsustainable manner.
We agree that special attention needs to be paid to marketing with a view to increasing the added value of fishery products for fishermen.
The ceiling of 30&#160;000 proposed by the Commission is a balanced and reasonable compromise.
The Commission has proposed raising the ceiling from the previous amount of 3000 to 30&#160;000.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – We are all aware of the difficult situation in which the fishing industry finds itself, in view of the ongoing and, in some cases, serious depletion of fish stocks, the cuts imposed on fishing activities and the rising costs of certain production factors.
The industry plays a major role in our development economy, in the sustainable management of marine resources and in the achievement of full employment in coastal communities.
In order to support and promote the sector, it is essential, in our view, to invest in modernising the fleet, training fishery workers and improving the living and working conditions of seafarers.
We cannot just push for a restructuring of the sector without taking into account the damaging effects on full employment: the measures called for by the Commission are reasonable but insufficient.
In short, I fully support the report’s specific and detailed proposals. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Guerreiro’s report on improving the economic situation in the fishing industry worries me a lot.
The way in which the Community’s fishing fleet conducts its activities will lead to the oceans becoming irrevocably depleted of fish, and all to protect an industry that is uncompetitive internationally.
At the beginning of September, the Commission presented a proposal on fishing in the Baltic Sea.
The ICES, or International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, again repeated the demand for a total ban on cod fishing in the eastern Baltic, but the Commission believes that it is enough for it to be reduced by 15%.
High fuel prices and lower catch rates have combined to create a very difficult situation for this sector and this fits very well into what I have been saying before.
The final text should reflect the fact that these measures requested by Parliament have already taken place.
I can accept in principle that there could be a two-step approach in long-term plans, and that different measures would apply in situations where stocks are outside safe biological limits from those applicable in situations where stocks are within those limits.
Concerning Amendment 13, a legislative text for a long-term plan must define clearly how efforts should be adjusted in order to achieve the targets of the plan.
Parliament’s text does not seem clear enough from a legal and technical point of view.
This is why I am not in a position to accept Amendment 14, because it would create a non-equitable situation in comparison with other fisheries sectors that also have an impact on cod and are subject to cod-recovery measures.
I believe this figure should be retained for plaice and sole as for the other long-term plans.
In conclusion, I thank Parliament for its careful scrutiny of this document.
I am pleased that he is nevertheless moving towards Parliament in a number of areas.
One important point of criticism that I made with regard to the Commission’s working method was that the proposal was tabled before the North Sea Regional Advisory Council had issued its recommendation.
It appears to me essential that, if we want to retain a support base for fisheries, we should accord these Regional Advisory Councils a fully-fledged place in the debate and that we get them to make a contribution prior to the debate as well.
I am saying this emphatically because those Regional Advisory Councils not only involve fisheries organisations, but also the Word Nature Fund and other nature organisations.
With regard to the application of the objectives for Maximum Sustainable Yield (MSY), I am pleased that the Commission has just now issued the communication on that subject which was still missing prior to the management plan for sole and plaice, although it had, in fact, already presented the MSY objectives.
The Commissioner has stated that the establishment of three-year quotas is a problem for him after all, because they do not allow any adjustments.
I would draw your attention to, among others, the producer organisations in a number of ports that work closely together and where there is excellent cooperation between the Member States, the authorities, the inspectorates and the fisheries organisations themselves.
There are, of course, general policy lines, but in order to keep a support base for fisheries, it is essential for these Regional Advisory Councils to be accorded an important role, also in future, also in the implementation of the plans.
Even more important, however, is the following.
That is why scientific recommendations are drafted conservatively to take the Council’s outcome into consideration.
We must ensure that the sector and scientific institutions cooperate much quicker and at a much earlier stage in order to weigh up the plans effectively.
Parliament’s position will be apparent in tomorrow’s vote.
I am firmly convinced that the Commissioner will place Parliament’s contribution at the heart of the Council’s discussion. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Maat for his report.
I also think that with the age-old problem of stocks in general there is always a conflict between the scientific advice and what the fishermen believe the stocks to be.
In my country, Estonia, fishing is more than just an industry or a means of earning a living.
Fishing is an integral part of our culture.
Most of these fish perish.
I concur with the report’s recommendation to establish three-year fishing quotas instead of one-year quotas.
The attempts to restore fishing stocks in the Baltic Sea, which feeds fishermen from five Member States, would be much more successful if they were supported by regional cooperation.
I think that Mr&#160;Maat’s report is, for the most part, sound, but I would criticise precisely the same things as the Commissioner.
While the management plan acknowledges the North Sea Advisory Council, it ignores its findings.
Tell me: who benefits from the destruction of the richest waters of Western Europe? &#160;&#160; Madam President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur for taking on the Commission and for taking it to task in relation to its glaring omissions and its oversights.
Then, on the other hand, in its document the Commission makes no further reference to the NSRAC’s opinion.
The Commission’s proposal to launch a debate on MSY in advance of agreement by the Council and Parliament simply is not on.
After the North Sea RAC decided to reserve its position until the Commission had made a specific proposal concerning long-term management targets and reference points, the Commission stated that it would put forward a proposal and even inform the RAC of its technical content at a meeting in November 2005.
Regarding maximum sustainable yields, a number of stocks were brought into long-term management plans some years ago, which included low-target fishing mortalities, such as mackerel, herring and, more recently, haddock.
The North Sea RAC has revised its position and it no longer advises such a measure.
I can accept the argument that a three-year TAC will give greater security to fishermen, but not the argument that a three-year TAC would mean greater sustainability.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the report (A6-0263/2006) by Mrs Miguélez Ramos, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1185/2003 on the removal of fins of sharks on board vessels (2006/2054(INI)). &#160;&#160; – Madam President, without taking up any of my speaking time – since this has nothing to do with the issue we are dealing with, but is more a point of order – I would like to put a request to the Presidency of this Parliament arising from an incident in which I have just been involved.
In order to ensure that is not practised, the quantity of fins must correspond to that of bodies and, to that end, a ratio or proportion compared to the total live weight is established, and in 2003 that ratio was set at five per cent of fin compared to live weight.
In any event – and I address this to the Commissioner – the main objective of the Community legislation must be to reinforce the prohibition of but – and I say this to him too – in order to ensure that the rules are effective and accepted by all of the parties, they must reflect the specific characteristics of fleets, the morphology of the different species and calculation methods that include cutting techniques and presentation methods used.
I would say to the Commission that not using realistic conversion factors poses a risk to the European Union since it leads to errors in the estimates of catches, estimates that are obtained indirectly from the international market in fins in Asian countries, where they appear as being of European origin.
At the same time – I address this also to the Commissioner – the updating of this percentage, I would repeat, on the basis of the data and the scientific reports, would enable the Community immediately to lead the review that, in accordance with the recommendation of the Community’s own Scientific Committee, is going to take place within the ICCAT and that will probably be followed by other RFOs.
I would stress that the increase requested in no way implies an increase in the catch of sharks nor a relaxing of the measures intended to prevent the practice of . &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mrs&#160;Miguélez.
The Commission will also continue to promote the prohibition of shark finning in international forums.
A more comprehensive set of management measures is required.
I refer, in particular, to special efforts to improve scientific knowledge and data collection, to establish catch or effort limits for certain species, including deep-sea species, to prohibit drift nets that may catch some large pelagic sharks and to control and limit fishing capacity.
As rightly pointed out in Parliament’s motion for a resolution, the Commission has identified numerous actions to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010 and beyond, including Community plans of action for sharks and sea birds.
While it is too early to have a clear overview of the detailed work programme for 2007, it is clear that a formal, complete and detailed plan of action requires a comprehensive assessment of the situation and of the possible measures, together with an early consultation of all interested parties, which will take time and resources.
The desired timeframe seems rather too ambitious, and setting too short a timeframe for preparation and consultation could even be counterproductive.
Returning to the report’s core concerns, I have taken good note of the proposed calls for the Commission to present amendments to the Shark Finning Regulation, especially with a view to reviewing the 5% fin weight versus live body weight ratio on the basis of a species-dependent approach, and to revise the possibilities for separate landings of fins and carcasses, as well as to report again on the operation of this regulation within two years.
The Commission’s report also confirms this.
Parliament’s necessary full involvement in a proposal for a plan of action will also provide another opportunity for Parliament to be informed about and to play a role in developments on shark finning matters.
You can rest assured that I am always ready to act and to present all supporting evidence if new information becomes available indicating significant changes in the situation.
I am committed to advances in the area of shark conservation and other aspects of marine biodiversity, and will inform you in due time of the progress made. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to thank Mrs&#160;Miguélez Ramos.
In other words, this type of fishing is centred on a species, just as any other, which means that sustainability is just as important for this species as for any other.
We must therefore look into the possibility of changing the percentage, on the basis of these reports, which have proposed an increase from 5% to 6.5%.
The compromise reached between the three main political groups implies that Parliament realises that this is the way to proceed, in line with the existing studies carried out by recognised bodies, to which the EU belongs, and in accordance with the law, thereby contributing to genuinely sustainable and regulated fishing. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am delighted that the UK Government was one of the key supporters of Council Regulation (EC) No&#160;1185/2003 concerning the disgusting practice of removing shark fins on board vessels.
The same goes for ICCAT, where scientists have reviewed fin to carcass ratios but have not recommended an increase of the ratio.
I fear that the European Parliament may not give its support to any of these amendments, a retrograde step, and I ask colleagues to say no to ‘slit and chuck’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we can argue whether a 5% ratio of fin weight to body weight is appropriate or whether a larger proportion is needed.
I have no doubt that an increase would be wrong, but no doubt the Spanish and Portuguese fishing interests would argue the other way.
I hope the Commissioner will support the idea of more regular reviews, just as I support him in opposing the idea that quotas should be set for long periods of time.
I hope that the Commissioner will be able to finish this debate by telling us exactly how much work has already been done over the past three years in preparing the groundwork for publication of the shark management action plan.
I hope the Commissioner can correct that impression. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I hope that the Commission will maintain its firm position in the face of the attempts to reduce the requirements for the cutting off of the fins of sharks.
It is difficult to monitor what happens at sea, and there is sufficient evidence to suggest that many Member States are not controlling compliance with Community legislation.
To besiege an animal even further, when two thirds of its species in Europe are already on the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red List, is not a good idea. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the UK, Germany and Belgium fought very hard to implement a ban on shark finning in 2003.
Spain and Portugal now appear to be the only Member States pushing for an amendment to the regulation in respect of the 5% ratio of fins to live weight of shark catch.
The proposal in this report for a 6.5% ratio would quite simply allow more sharks to be killed.
Indeed, we should be seeking to impose a strict regime of TACs and quotas on blue sharks to offer the species additional protection. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly I wish to thank Mrs Miguélez Ramos for all the work she has done in preparing this own-initiative report.
In other words, potentially 30% of the shark catches could end up in finning.
I therefore urge you to support Mr Davies’ amendment tabled on behalf of the ALDE Group and aimed at maintaining the ratio at 5%, as proposed by the Commission and as supported by the Commissioner in his speech here tonight. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am surprised by Commissioner Borg’s statement that legislation that is recent cannot be modified.
According to that report, the ratio applied to Prionacea glauca is wrong.
Commissioner, this is demonstrated in the report that you have sent to this Parliament.
It is crazy to carry on as we do when nearly 50% of the 130 species of shark are now endangered.
The 5% fin- to body-weight requirement represents the only current restriction on a number of shark species caught in fisheries, notably the blue shark.
The EU has taken considerable management action with regard to sharks, for example the improvement of data collection for large pelagic shark species, the establishment of catch limits for certain shark species, skates and rays in the North Sea, deepwater sharks in the north-east Atlantic, prohibiting trawl fisheries within littoral areas in the Mediterranean, banning the use of driftnets that may catch large pelagic sharks, prohibiting shark finning and establishing specific conditions under which only the removal of fins of sharks may be authorised – which is what we are discussing today – and the control and limitation of fishing capacity.
It is important to note that many of these measures apply to EC vessels, irrespective of whether or not they operate in EC waters.
Considering the very wide range of products on the market and the number of processed products that contain one or more imported ingredients, it is clear that imports are vital for the development of the organic sector within the European Union.
We need to be sure that consumers are confident that the products that they buy as being organic really are so, whether they are imported or produced within the European Union and that there is no unfair competition for European organic producers.
Since 1992, imported products have been able to enter the European Union either from third countries that are recognised by the Community as providing equivalent official guarantees – there are now seven countries on that list and about the same number of applicant countries – or through Member State authorisations for the entry of specific consignments.
With this proposal, we want to fill the gap between that date and 1&#160;January 2009, the date of entry into force of the overall proposal we have submitted, which contains exactly the same provisions on imports as we have on the table tonight.
There is no difference between what we are proposing now and what will be included in the main proposal entering into force on 1 January 2009.
We propose to keep the third country list as it is, but to replace Member State authorisations with a permanent Community system.
Finally, our proposal provides for direct access for fully compliant products in order to respect our international trade obligations.
I do not think that our positions on this issue are very far apart.
Therefore, I can partially accept Amendments 1 and 2.
To a great extent, I can agree in principle to your other amendments, but I would prefer to keep this proposal as concise and simple as possible, setting out all the main rules needed, but not more than that.
I have also noted with pleasure the great willingness to support the development of the local control bodies in third countries.
We all know that paper is patient; so we also need to see to it that the European Union’s standards apply in these countries.
According to you, we have gone rather further in our amendments, but that is not so, Commissioner; the fact is that we are in agreement with you.
A Commissioner who is always present and regularly attends the committee meetings is being silenced this evening after five minutes!
We had to wait for her fellow-Commissioner, Mr&#160;Frattini, for 10 minutes during this afternoon’s vote, and he was given 15 minutes’ speaking time.
The fact that we hold debates on agricultural policy at 11.30 at night is nothing to do with her, but with your agenda.
The essence of the subject we are discussing today is that import products must meet the requirements of production in the European Union.
I should like to thank the rapporteur for his report, and I shall advise my group to vote in favour of the report as amended in the Agricultural Committee. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much.
In this regard, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work that has been done within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
The importation of organic products from third countries can thus be a very lucrative enterprise, but the current practices involving such importation are, sadly, not sufficient to necessarily guarantee the quality of a product.
Hoping that time proves me wrong, I once again congratulate the rapporteur on a job well done. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, today’s debate on the draft concerning the labelling of organic agricultural products is in line with the general global trend of an increased demand for healthy food.
We are currently having to deal with surplus food production in the countries of the European Union.
We are also witnessing a noticeable growth in the number of cases of illnesses caused by the consumption of food saturated with chemicals.
Consumers are therefore choosing to buy food that is more expensive but safer.
It also represents an opportunity to at least partly resolve the problem of unemployment in rural areas.
In order to deal with both cases, we should introduce provisions placing an outright ban on the importing of organic produce from outside the Union unless there is complete certainty about the quality standards under which it was produced. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, even in his absence, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which really is a very good one.
For many farmers, organic farming represents an alternative mode of production.
The advent of genetic engineering is prompting a constant increase in demand for organic products from monitored and certified farms.
Organic foods account for some 5% in terms of quantity of the turnover of the retail trade in food, with consumers opting for organic products not only because of their richer flavour, but also out of a sense of responsibility for the environment and for animals and in order to make a real contribution towards keeping the countryside intact and diverse.
The total organic food turnover in Austria amounts to some EUR&#160;450&#160;million per annum.
Confidence in organic products can be maintained only if stringent checks are carried out in all areas, in other words on all products, whether originating from the EU or from third countries.
Only then is there any guarantee that consumers will be willing to pay the higher prices demanded for these products. &#160;&#160; Mr President, organic food production is becoming increasingly important in my constituency in Ireland.
Over the years, Irish farmers have taken great pride in high quality food produced naturally.
The amendment to Article 16 reinforces the definition of organic agricultural products.
The Commission’s proposal allows for a series of exceptions from organic production rules, such as the case of setting up organic farms or solving livestock management problems.
The European Union, in a bid to protect consumers, has laid down proper production rules and strict controls and, in my opinion, quite rightly so.
The European Union wants organic products, but for reasons of consumer protection and equal competition with our farmers, all these controls are needed, because otherwise we shall not have results.
We shall simply help the supermarket chains to get richer at the expense of consumer health and at the expense of European farmers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf for a very good report and the Commissioner for being here at such a late hour.
I should like to ask you, Mr President, to give the Commissioner enough time to sum up properly at the end of the debate.
Concerning organic farming and organic products, I want to stress that people are increasingly buying organic produce, which is to be welcomed.
It is very important, therefore, to monitor production in the countries from which we import organic produce.
This report and the Commission’s work are therefore very important, not only for imported organic food but also with regard to ensuring a completely level playing field across Europe in terms of the definition of organic products.
I should like to thank the Commissioner again and shall leave her a few seconds to sum up. &#160;&#160; I should like to raise five issues relating to organic farming.
It is essential to have a list of substances whose use is permitted in organic agriculture, such as plant protection substances, fertilisers, substances used to improve soil quality, enhancers and substances used in processing.
Organic food production takes place in a safe and clean environment that is free from antibiotics, growth hormones and genetically modified organisms.
Better marketing and awareness-raising measures are required to increase the consumption of organic products.
It is also an opportunity to strengthen regional and local development, notably in less developed areas.
Finally, support for organic farming by means of subsidies for organic farming and support for the creation of a system of appropriate distribution and promotion.
This is the weakest link in the relationship between producers and consumers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner, and the rapporteur for his report.
My biggest concern relates to who is monitoring the control bodies and who is checking the auditors.
Regarding Amendment 13, a meaningful report cannot be drawn up before the first list of control bodies has been functioning for longer; in any case, not before the date of entry into application of the full regulation on 1&#160;January 2009.
The requirement for the control bodies to be accredited in the context of the list of third countries in paragraph 4 is not applicable, as there is governmental supervision in these cases.
For the control bodies that are listed in paragraph 5, I agree in principle to the request for formal accreditation, but adequate governmental supervision should also be acceptable as an alternative in that situation.
To conclude, Amendments 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13, 15 and 16 are partially acceptable or acceptable in principle.
Thank you for the debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
