Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (CS) Wilderness and its diversity represent a gift and treasure that humanity should look after not just in the European Union.
In my own country, Slovakia, an increase in the bark beetle population forced the national park services in the High Tatra region to use pesticides to combat the corrosive nature of the insect.
Just as we must find a better solution to this dramatic insect population explosion in Slovakia, it is necessary across Europe to find ways to effectively protect our natural and wild lands.
The success of pre-commercial procurement will enable public institutions to collaborate in developing new products in order to improve the quality of public services.
We believe that this will increase the interest of SMEs in proposing innovative solutions for improving the quality of public transport, healthcare, reducing energy consumption in public buildings and protecting citizens from security threats without having to intrude upon their privacy.
With this report, we have given the European Commission a powerful signal to hurry up and make some specific legislative changes. (CS) Mr President-in-Office, at this point, I would like to express my opinion on the unbundling of production and transmission systems for gas in connection with the adopted legislation.
The rapporteur suggests relaxing the Union's policy towards the Russian Federation.
One day, we will have to account for the own goals in which the EU excels. (DA) Mr President, I voted in favour of Mrs Laperrouze's report, but I also voted in favour of a number of amendments, all of which put a question mark against nuclear power as an energy source of the future.
Secondly, while I voted against a range of nuclear-related amendments due to my ongoing concerns with nuclear fission, I have no problem with references to research on safety issues or on new generations of nuclear energy.
I voted in favour of this report because it talks about sensible issues like energy efficiency and energy security related to the climate change agenda.
Mr President, I was delighted to be able to support Mr Luís Queiró's report on proportionality and subsidiarity of small airports.
We have got the right balance in this report, and that is the way we should be looking at our infrastructure in the future.
If working life is to be compatible with family life, one's professional career must be placed on an equal footing with non-gainful activity which takes place in the context of inter-generational solidarity.
The Záborská report was a step in the right direction, and I object to the amended version which has been adopted. (CS) Likewise, I would like to express full support for Mrs Záborská, who has presented her own-initiative report which indeed addresses and underlines the need for inter-generational solidarity between individual family members.
I fully support Mrs Záborská's report.
I do not want to vote against the Czech Presidency.
My first point is that the Czech Presidency does not call for a particular change in the so-called Barcelona targets, but for the opening-up of the debate on a possible and viable revision of the targets.
My second point is that it is evident that there are different social, cultural and economic conditions which can hardly enable the achievement of the Barcelona targets in general terms and equally all over the EU.
Thirdly, the report does not take into account further factors, such as the freedom of each family, as well as the interests of children.
Last, but not least, it is also difficult to achieve the Barcelona targets because childcare is, quite rightly, entirely in the hands of national governments. (NL) I, too, intended to vote in favour of the Záborská report because it was, all in all, an even-handed report that does not lapse into the traditional, politically correct clichés when it comes to matters such as discrimination or what is meant by it.
This is a particularly weak argument, but any stick will apparently do to beat a dog and to hold debates, to provide real arguments for an issue such as pay for stay-at-home parents. (PL) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Záborská, notably because it recognised the work undertaken in the home by women.
Gary Becker, a Nobel prize winner, refers to the importance of the economic contribution made by people undertaking domestic tasks to the economic progress of society as a whole.
The role of women in raising families is not recognised in many of the Member States as a contribution to their national GDP.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - Such agreements are vital in the process of strengthening the ties between the European Union and the United States of America.
I voted in favour of the Niebler report as scientific and technological cooperation between the EU and US is an absolute necessity.
The proposal also provides for missions by EU experts and officials and for workshops, seminars and meetings to be organised in the European Community and in the United States.
in writing. - Mrs Niebler has presented the report on the third extension of the EU-United States Agreement, which supports the Council decision concerning the extension of the Agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and the Government of the United States of America.
in writing. - The extension of the Scientific and Technological Cooperation agreement between the EU and the USA is, beyond doubt, a positive aspect for European Research.
However, experience shows time and again that the most fruitful scientific collaborations are obtained when two researchers from two institutions collaborate on a commonly designed and jointly funded project.
The fact that there are justified ethical issues related to some research fields should be a drive to a common reflection on these aspects rather than a barrier to common scientific progress.
Extending the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation with the United States is a confirmation of the need for cooperation and mutually beneficial exchanges between the EU and US in the cutting-edge sectors of research and innovation.
in writing. - I wish to record that I support this report on Extension of the EC-USA agreement for scientific and technological cooperation.
However, my voting machine did not work and I wish to record my vote in favour of this report for the record.
I voted against Angelika Niebler's report on the extension of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the European Community and the Government of the United States of America.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a Council decision on extending the Agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and the Government of the United States of America as I feel that any scientific cooperation can lead to new discoveries which, in turn, can support the development and evolution of mankind.
I agree entirely with this proposal.
The agreement between the EU and Russia must inspire both the European Community and Russia to reap the reciprocal benefits resulting from the scientific and technical progress achieved through research programmes.
The proposal also provides for missions by EU experts and officials and for workshops, seminars and meetings to be organised in the European Community and Russia.
Renewing the partnership agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with Russia is an important step in the process of normalising and consolidating relations between the EU and the Russian Federation, apart from easing recent tensions.
The EU and Russia must first of all find a way of consolidating their partnership and of cooperating in the area of security policies, primarily the energy security policy.
The recent gas crisis highlighted the need for us to adopt a serious and united approach to dealing with the issue of the European Union's dependency on its resource suppliers.
I appeal to the European Commission and Czech Presidency to find specific ways of resolving these problems as soon as possible, for their own benefit and that of Europe's citizens and third country partners (Ukraine and Moldova).
However, my voting machine did not work and I wish to record my vote in favour of this report for the record.
in writing. - (SK) I voted in favour of scientific and technical cooperation between the European Community and Russia because it is necessary to build firm, stable and genuinely neighbourly relations with the Russian Federation.
in writing. - There are several reasons why this agreement strengthens the EU internal market and cooperation in standards as well as maintaining consumer protection.
Forests cover about one third of the land area of which only 5 % can be described as wilderness.
Most areas in Europe which are wilderness are protected under Natura 2000.
That is why I agree that no new legislation is required concerning wilderness areas as most are covered by Natura 2000.
There are several reasons why Europe should be interested in protected wilderness areas.
We have a moral obligation to ensure that future generations can take enjoyment and benefits from the protected wilderness areas in Europe.
The development of sustainable tourism is being used as a means to attribute an economic value to wilderness areas and to promote their conservation.
It is therefore important to draw up appropriate recommendations to help the EU Member States find the best way to ensure that present and potential protected areas, as well as wilderness areas and their natural processes, are safeguarded within the Natura 2000 framework.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report since I agree that we really need to proceed with the mapping of the last wilderness areas in Europe.
I also agree with the idea that we should promote sustainable tourism in these areas and teach site managers how to preserve and protect the wilderness.
Therefore, I join the request of the main NGOs in the field and ask the European Commission to give some guidelines for wilderness preservation in Europe.
in writing. - This report indicates that not even the farthest reaches of Europe are beyond the EU's grasp.
in writing. - Natura 2000 has done much to protect unspoilt or virgin environment.
This report stresses the importance of such projects and I am in full agreement with the rapporteur that many resources must be used to ensure the protection of such areas.
It is important to map these areas because it might be too late if we leave this too late.
I would also like to know whether there are wilderness areas that are currently not listed as Natura 2000 sites which would potentially come under the consideration of this report.
While I am appreciative of the work undertaken by these different departments and their different mandates, increasing the levels of cooperation and coherence could greatly enhance the protection afforded by Natura 2000 sites.
in writing. - (PT) I voted for the Hegyi report, since I believe it is necessary to improve the protection and promotion of wilderness areas in Europe.
We voted in favour of this report because we need to protect nature, but through human use.
We have a moral obligation to ensure that future generations can enjoy and benefit from Europe's wilderness areas.
The development of sustainable tourism can be used as a means of giving economic value to wildernesses and creating support for conservation, encouraging ordinary people to discover the hidden value of nature without damaging it.
in writing. - I support this report which highlights the need to protect the 46% of the world's land which is wilderness and has not been significantly modified by human activity.
In our part of the world, although we still need to protect ourselves from nature and its attacks, it has become necessary to protect nature from human presence and domination.
We must do so for ourselves: for the interest we have in preserving the richness of biodiversity and for our need to preserve the planet on which we have been offered the chance to live.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting for the Hegyi report on wilderness in Europe.
I voted for this report because, in my view, Europe must protect its wilderness areas and contribute to the upkeep of its national parks.
On the same lines, I believe the following measures are necessary: a closer analysis of land clearing activities in areas which are not designated as national parks and the development of specific projects aimed at reforestation in areas which have been cleared.
There is no need to introduce new legislation regarding wildernesses, but the European Commission should develop appropriate recommendations to ensure that that Member States of the EU receive assistance concerning the best ways of protecting present or potential wildernesses that might be included in the Natura 2000 network.
in writing. - In recent years, general and business aviation has been the fastest growing branch of the aviation sector.
Airports in my constituency of North-East England, such as Newcastle and Durham Tees Valley, are popular with amateur pilots and, increasingly, business people.
I voted in favour of this report.
I have voted against the report by Luís Queiró on the future of general and business aviation.
It is undoubtedly true that the number of general and business aircraft movements has increased significantly and therefore that the environmental impact has also grown.
I appeal to all Member States to take into consideration all the recommendations made by the Commission and rapporteur, especially those concerning how to make airport capacity more efficient and use it to optimum effect, not only with regard to large airports, but especially regional and local airports.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the report by Mr Queiró on an Agenda for a Sustainable Future in General and Business aviation.
Certainly we are warned that a new European policy is required concerning general and business aviation.
in writing. - The public sector has been hampered by traditional methods in the procurement of research and development services.
Companies which have developed a product or service for a public body cannot use their findings for other customers.
in writing. - This report makes sobering reading: for all the talk about the Lisbon agenda, and making Europe the world's most competitive economy by next year, I was shocked to read that the US public sector is spending USD 50 billion per year on research and development procurement.
Given the important role of public procurement in promoting and supporting new technologies, I supported this report.
in writing. - I agree with the rapporteur on the importance of innovation, especially in demanding sectors such as health, ageing and security.
in writing. - My colleague, Mr Harbour, has presented an own-initiative report regarding increasing innovation in Europe to ensure sustainable and high-quality public services.
Pre-commercial procurement is a specific approach for the public sector to engage R&amp;D, with a view to driving innovation to ensure sustainable high quality public services in Europe.
The adoption of this strategy will allow for cost-effective, value-added development of new and innovative solutions, and so I supported this proposal.
Precommercial procurement, from this perspective, can help to bridge the gap between supply and demand in the public services sector.
Pre-commercial procurement is tremendously important in terms of strengthening the innovation potential of the entire European Union, improving public services provided directly to the citizens, and also eliminating the gap between supply and demand in the public sector.
Adopting this own-initiative report compiled by Mr Harbour will help boost innovation in research and development within the European Union.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote against Mrs Laperrouze's report, as we believe that the final report is unbalanced and infringes the right of the Member States to decide whether or not they wish to use, develop or invest in nuclear energy.
in writing. - First and foremost, Europe must devote its efforts to help its members in their quest for the search of oil and gas.
The issue of nuclear energy has once again taken a prominent position.
in writing. - I welcome this week the financial allocation of EUR 100 million that is being given by the European Union in support of the construction of new electricity networks between the East Coast of Ireland and Wales.
This new project is part of the EUR 3.5 billion economic stimulus package which was announced by the European Commission last week in Brussels.
The European Union is also going to financially support new projects in the field of alternative energy, and this includes the wind energy sector.
We need to develop other energy sectors Thank you, Mr President.
If energy efficiency and energy saving continue to be a priority, in line with the continuing development of renewable energy sources, I agree that it should be possible to meet our energy requirements using low emission sources by 2050.
in writing. - The three main objectives - security of supply and solidarity between Member States; combating climate change: recalling the 'three times 20' objective for 2020 and the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by between 50% and 80% by 2050; and the economic growth of the EU: obtaining the best prices while avoiding price volatility - are of utmost importance when we discuss the European energy policy.
We have to consider the policy that the decentralisation of energy sources will have, and new types of renewable energy should also be encouraged.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues welcome the strategic approach on the supply of energy as contained in the Laperrouze report on the Second Strategic Energy Review.
I voted in favour of Mrs Laperrouze's report on the strategic analysis of the EU's energy situation because it stipulates that the EU's future energy policy should include emergency action plans, the implementation of projects aimed at diversifying supply sources, as well as new climate change objectives.
However, we voted in favour of several proposals.
We also agree that more research in the energy field should be undertaken, specifically into the transmutation of nuclear waste and nuclear fusion.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Laperrouze report on the Second Strategic Energy Review despite (for me) its over-enthusiasm for nuclear energy.
I am not in favour of early closure of safe nuclear plants, but my enthusiasm for new plants is extremely limited.
I also voted in favour of the Green Amendment 22 pointing out the delay and escalating costs of the fusion power ITER project.
This sensitive issue really is a strategic one and, as such, can only be left up to the sovereign decision of the states in accordance with their interests.
The diversification of energy supplies assumes that there are gas and oil pipelines to transport resources to the EU.
The dependency of countries in this region on Russia, as the single supplier of energy resources, stands in the way of energy security, not just for these countries themselves, but for the Community as a whole.
The diversification of energy sources and suppliers cannot remain a matter for the member countries themselves.
Partnership and Cooperation Agreements (in particular with Russia) must be a means of safeguarding the interests of all EU Members, and EU Member States must adhere to the principles of solidarity and unity in discussions with energy suppliers in third countries.
Together, these factors point to a need for a strategic approach based on lesser dependency and, as a result, greater diversity (either of suppliers or of energy consumed); greater efficiency; a sustained research effort into alternative energy; greater integration; and, at the same time, the development of production capacities at a local level - specifically, those using alternative energy sources.
in writing. - The EU has ambitious plans, matched against a risk that resources will be increasingly constrained as populations around the globe demand more energy.
In this context, I would like to remind you that there is still no sustainable solution for the problem of (highly) radioactive waste.
The report by Mrs Lapperouze on the Second Strategic Energy Review contains a point advocating the construction of the South Stream pipeline.
This is a sister project to the North Stream pipeline, aimed at making it totally impossible to implement the Nabucco project.
The South Stream pipeline strengthens Russia's position in terms of the supply of sources of energy, and cannot therefore be considered a project to achieve diversification in this area.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues are supportive of a number of the general principles outlined in this report, including support for carers, work-life balance, and parental leave.
in writing. - It is a fact that in the Lisbon strategy, the concept of 'work' relates to formal gainful employment.
There are activities carried out by both men and women which do not qualify as formal gainful employment, but one cannot deny that these activities constitute work.
For instance, voluntary, domestic and family work are all different aspects of the concept but do not fall within the traditional definition of gainful employment.
The definition of work to this day is too economic.
The result is that women, who are responsible for the greater part of household production, are undervalued as regards their input.
I urge EU states to make provisions for the cost of maternity leave to be covered not just by the employer, but by society too, and to offer parents more opportunities for flexible working, and child care institutions more opportunities for flexible working hours, so that both women and men can balance work and family life more successfully.
in writing. - I support this report which focuses on the various aspects of direct and indirect discrimination towards women and men who are responsible for taking care of dependents.
The non-gainful employment of women and men who, for instance, educate children, care for the elderly at home, provide inter-generational solidarity and work for the common good, is still not considered economic work to this day.
in writing. - MEP Záborská has presented a report which presents a definition of the term 'work' which includes non-monetary and informal labour, which extends recognition to non-market-based or non-remunerated work.
It is essential that public services exist and that everyone has access to quality services, irrespective of their financial position and gender, and without suffering any discrimination.
I have voted in favour of the Záborská report on bringing an end to discrimination.
in writing. - (SV) Equality and equal treatment on the labour market, as well as in all other contexts, go without saying in a democracy.
In practice, this report proposes that the EU should shoulder the responsibility for the Member States' social policy and legislate on issues that are closely associated with labour market policy.
All of these are examples of political issues that the Member States themselves should have control over.
The Záborská report makes it clear that for women, the decision as to whether or not to go out to work still represents a choice between two unequal alternatives.
Single parents are at particularly high risk of poverty and society needs to show more solidarity in this respect.
I have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance as an alternative to Mrs Záborská's report, since it better tackles the actual problems that still persist with regard to achieving true equality between men and women, recognition of changes in the family model, reconciliation of personal and working life and the positive measures for action that we Socialists have always upheld.
With my vote I also want to send a clear message to the Czech Presidency which, as it explained in its programme for these six months, also intends to promote the image of the woman-carer, encouraging many female professionals to give up their careers to take care of their families.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur when she affirms the essential need to make the concept of work sustainable and to acknowledge the unpaid work carried out by women and men towards inter-generational solidarity.
In cooperation with the Member States and social partners, the European Commission should undertake a review of the political strategies aimed at reconciling family and professional life.
The Commission should present its views on the new directive concerning specific rights and protection regarding the reconciliation of family and professional life in families where certain members require care.
The entire left-wing spectrum in the European Parliament voted for the alternative resolution.
However, despite the fact that the legal systems of Member States provide for penalties and a fairly high level of protection against the sexual exploitation and abuse of children and child pornography, we need to increase the level of protection for children, also in view of the constant development of new technologies, in particular, the Internet, and the use of new forms of online grooming of children by paedophiles.
I voted in favour of the report discussed and would like to congratulate Mrs Angelilli for tackling such a difficult but also important subject.
I voted in favour of this report because I agree that Member States need to 'criminalise all types of sexual abuse of children', including online grooming.
in writing. - Often, the EU seeks to take common action where things are better left to Member States.
The EU's global role offers an important opportunity to promote our values in countries and regions where children's rights are less well protected.
I therefore voted in favour of this report.
I voted in favour of the Angelilli report because I believe that the protection of children's rights must be a priority for the EU and its Member States.
Legislation combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography must be updated to take into account the development of new technologies, especially the Internet, as well as the use of some new forms of online grooming of children by paedophiles.
This unit must cooperate effectively with the police authorities in Member States and in third countries, with the relevant expertise.
in writing. - I fully support MEP Angelilli's own-initiative report and the recommendation to the Council on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
This report would update and strengthen existing measures for combating these abhorrent behaviours, and define them as criminal offences, punishable by law.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Angelilli report on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography because I consider it essential to update the means of fighting all forms of exploitation of children, so as to ensure a high level of child protection within the European Union.
The sexual abuse of children and child pornography are especially odious crimes which require, in an age of the Internet and sex tourism, stronger legislation, increased cooperation between the police and legal systems and improved victim support.
in writing. - The sexual exploitation of children and child pornography are abominable crimes and international cooperation is necessary to put a stop to them.
I am voting in favour of the Angelilli report on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
in writing. - The sexual exploitation of children and child pornography are abominable crimes and international cooperation is necessary to put a stop to them.
I therefore voted in favour of the Angelilli report today.
in writing. - (SV) Sexual crimes against children and child pornography are among the most abhorrent crimes that people are guilty of.
I support a lot of what the report contains and have voted in favour in many individual votes.
I have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
I voted in favour of Mrs Angelilli's report on the sexual exploitation of children because this issue concerns one of the most sordid inhumane acts, which must be punished by measures adopted by all Member States.
in writing. - I support this report which calls on the remaining three countries which have not yet done so to implement the Council framework decision on combating sexual exploitation of children.
I have voted in favour of the Angelilli report because it will improve the protection for our children.
Certainly, there are major advantages associated with this technology and with the facilities that go with it from the point of view of jobs, education, social life and research.
This freedom can be a good thing, as is the case the majority of the time, but it can also be used for the sexual exploitation of children and for child pornography.
Nothing is more important than the health, wellbeing and future of our children.
I voted in favour of the Angelilli report on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, because it demands compliance, which should go without saying, by all the Member States with current international law and a review of the Council's framework decision, in order to improve the protection of children at European Level.
International cooperation in an integrated fight against these crimes is needed and all Member States should ensure that their perpetrators are taken to court.
I voted for this report aimed at adapting and reinforcing the Framework Decision of 2004, the objective being to protect children from sexual exploitation and violence.
The solicitation of children for sexual purposes should be seen as a crime.
I voted in favour of the report initiated by Mrs Angelilli, which has tackled the issue of combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, placing the emphasis on the preventive measures that need to be considered by the Member States when they are drafting their legislative framework for combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
It is worrying, however, that not all Member States have conformed to the prescriptions of Council Framework Decision 2004/68/JHA of 22 December 2003.
This decision, among others, needs to be updated in order to increase the level of protection for children, also in view of the constant development of new technologies, in particular, the Internet, and the use of new forms of online grooming of children by paedophiles.
I welcome the European Parliament's decision to request Member States to make a firm commitment to combating child sex abuse, especially bearing in mind how vulnerable children using chat rooms and online forums are to abuse.
in writing. - (NL) I emphatically voted in favour of the report combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
This also applies to the eight Member States that have not yet ratified the Optional Protocol from 2000 concerning child trafficking, child prostitution and child pornography to the UN's Convention on the Rights of the Child.
in writing. - (EL) The political forces which support imperialist barbarity, war, the plundering of wealth-producing resources and the exploitation of peoples are jointly responsible for the daily crime being committed against millions of children in the world.
They are responsible for the millions of children who are hungry, who are malnourished, who are forced to work and who live below the poverty line in the countries of the 'civilised West', for the millions of children who are victims of sexual exploitation and for the flourishing child pornography industry, which turns over and generates profits of over EUR 3 billion from the Internet alone.
in writing. - (SV) I have voted against the report on the EU harmonisation of criminal legislation in connection with sexual crimes against children.
Protecting children and young people from sexual abuse is an important issue and, indeed, a problem of our times.
The state should allow parents this free time.
This is why I have started a project in Slovakia addressed primarily to parents: 'Do you know where your child is now?' In a civilised society, we must put the safety of our children above everything.
Sexual exploitation leaves children with psychological scars and sometimes even physical ones, thereby diminishing their hopes of leading a life of dignity.
I would like to support the idea put forward by the rapporteur, Mrs Angelilli, that the framework decision currently in force since 2004 should be updated.
We welcome the decision whereby this updating process must be carried out in order to increase the level of child protection, especially with regard to the new threats posed by the Internet and other new communication systems.
We must encourage cooperation between Member States to put an end to this type of crime and actively combat child pornography and other forms of commercial sexual exploitation of children.
