Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (DE) Mr President, I did not understand you at first.
I voted for this report because this new regulation creates a good balance between sensible anti-terrorism measures on the one hand and passenger rights on the other hand.
We know that the controls should be used for the prevention of terrorism, but these controls are causing a lot of anger among passengers owing to the individual airports' widely differing interpretations.
I expect that the following assessment will be made: either the control procedures are standardised and improved, or else these measures are stopped, with the aim of not burdening passengers with measures that are in any case not at all effective. (PL) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Costa report.
Money obtained for this purpose must not be used for any other purpose. (CS) Mr President, I abstained from voting on the proposal for a regulation on common rules because I think it contains some weak points.
I therefore call for a solution that would respect the principles of openness and transparency. (DE) The new institute to be set up here seems to me absolutely justified and reasonable as far as its goals are concerned and I therefore support the report and the establishment of this institute.
The European Union - and therefore we - must work very hard to be able to hold our own successfully in technological competition with the other economic areas, but - and I now come to the crucial point - I should like to ask the Commission once again to check the 32 agencies, and this again is one of them, as to their purpose and efficiency, to carry out a sort of health check for agencies and also to shut down agencies that are no longer expedient and not working efficiently in the taxpayers' interest.
I hope - and this is a request to the Commission, which is present this afternoon and has this subject on the agenda - that the Commission will today finally bring itself to have this health check carried out for agencies. (CS) I welcome the fact that after three years we are launching the European Institute of Innovation and Technology.
I am glad that the institute will not be a 'super-university', but will create innovation networks with a view to more extensive application of research in industry and healthcare.
I voted in favour of this proposal.
The new Institute could coordinate European innovation and technology and thereby generate new added value.
Thomas Dolby, the lyricist, once sang, 'She blinded me with science'.
The idea was to endow Strasbourg with a world-class university.
Clearly, as we know, this money is for infrastructure projects, for repairing roads, bridges, railways, hospitals and other institutions, but at the same time it will enable the Government in the United Kingdom to release money it would have had to spend on this in other ways.
I also supported the amendment which in the context of the Galileo budget reshuffles an amount of EUR 2 million from an operational line to a line of administrative nature.
What concerns me, however, is that on 29 January the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy adopted with a large majority eight amendments suppressing the Galileo Supervisory Authority from the legal basis of the amended proposal on the Galileo and EGNOS programmes.
I would like a serious debate to be held on this topic in plenary. (PL) Mr President, I shall be very brief with regard to this report.
For every GBP 2 we get back, we have put GBP 5 into this pot in the first place.
We are talking about nearly EUR 600 000 which we give to EU vessels to catch more than 7 000 t of tuna.
Therefore I abstained on the whole report. (PPE-DE). - (DE) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report because I believe firstly that it is a good one and secondly that it points in the right direction.
It is also pleasing that Amendment 1 was rejected and the original text retained, i.e.
These are discretionary clauses and whether or not such a large country as the United Kingdom introduces these measures is within that nation's discretion. (CS) The debate last night did not reassure me that the European Commission and the Member States are prepared in the foreseeable future to allocate funds to improving the quality of transport infrastructure in the new Member States.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the consultation procedure report by my German colleague Mr Böge, which supports the proposal for a Council decision amending Decision 2003/77/EC laying down multiannual financial guidelines for managing the assets of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) in liquidation since 2002 and, on completion of the liquidation, the Assets of the Research Fund for Coal and Steel.
It was right to take account of changing markets and financial products when bringing the possibility of managing this capital up to date, while maintaining a high degree of security and long-term stability.
It is also highly debatable how former consortiums such as the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) and Euratom, which were fully absorbed into the EU a long time ago, can still have their own funds, programmes, etc., particularly in the context of Member States opposed to nuclear power, for instance, still constantly having to finance their research etc.
in writing. - (PL) I agree with the proposal to replace certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with Community agreements.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my British colleague Mr Parish on the amendment of Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products, which had been adopted on the basis of the situation at 31 December 2006.
Having brought the 21 regulations applicable to the common organisation of agricultural markets together in a single all-encompassing regulation in order to rationalise and simplify the legal framework of market policies such as intervention, private storage, import tariff quotas, export refunds, safeguard measures, state aid and competition rules, and the communication and reporting of data, it became necessary to update this text to take account of decisions taken since 2006 in the sugar, fruit and vegetables, processed fruit and vegetables, seeds, beef and milk and milk products sectors.
in writing. - (SV) We are opposed to the current common agricultural policy and object to changes of little fundamental significance to the existing system.
The entire common agricultural policy is an absurd contrivance and must be abolished.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my British colleague Mr Parish on the amendment of Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for the flax and hemp sector.
in writing. - (PL) I am voting in favour of the report by Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the statistical classification of economic activities in the European Community.
The aim of the application is to codify Council Regulation (EEC) No 3037/90 of 9 October 1990 on the statistical classification of economic activities in the European Community.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my fellow Member Mr Costa on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules in the field of aviation security and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002, adopted the day after the attacks on 11 September 2001 in the United States of America, which had to be reviewed in the light of its application.
This regulation provides for 'a greater degree of harmonisation' of common rules in the field of civil aviation security at EU level - such as, for example, on the screening of passengers and cabin baggage, access control and aircraft security checks - repealing the 2002 regulation adopted as a result of the events of 11 September 2001 in the USA.
in writing. - (PL) In spite of everything, I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of the new air safety regulation, which creates greater safety in air traffic.
It has been clarified, however, that costs should apply directly to the provision of security and only the actual costs should be covered.
Civil aviation security is something that concerns all Member States and therefore requires common basic standards across the EU.
We cannot therefore delay further or spend any more time on debates based on taking a false sense of security for granted.
In this context, I would make a point of asking the Commission to take an initiative as soon as possible on the financing of security measures at European airports, and the transparency of security costs, in order to address possible distortion of competition in this field.
in writing. - I will be voting in favour of the compromise agreement reached in conciliation despite having reservations, not only about the financing of this legislation, but also at the attitude of the Council of Ministers during this whole procedure.
in writing. - (FR) I am pleased about the adoption at second reading and on the basis of the report by my Finnish fellow Member Mr Paasilinna on the Council common position for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the European Institute of Innovation and Technology, the idea for which was launched by the President of the European Commission, José-Manuel Barroso, in February 2005, and which has aroused a certain amount of scepticism as regards the added value such a facility can provide.
Today, in a global market of old and new 'knowledge economies', competitors such as the United States, India and Japan are at work, countries that have always made innovation the cornerstone of their economic development, and have consequently enjoyed a strong competitive advantage over the EU.
The European Parliament adopted several amendments to the Commission proposal, but in our opinion these are insufficient to straighten out something that was born crooked.
Consequently, I cannot support the current proposal or the Council common position, mainly because the budget is inadequate.
The fact that this is the second largest payment ever from the EU Solidarity Fund is indicative of the huge financial and personal cost paid by the victims.
This gesture of solidarity from the rest of Europe will be most welcome in my constituency.
in writing. - (PT) The text adopted today approves the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund in favour of the United Kingdom following the flooding there in the summer of 2007.
The opinion of the EP's Committee on Regional Development presses the Council to reach agreement on the Commission's proposed revision of the regulation establishing this Fund, which it has failed to do since the EP adopted its position at first reading on 18 May 2006, with a critical vote from us, moreover.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, the Solidarity Fund is the quintessence of the principle of solidarity, which is one of the cornerstones of the European Community.
Its conclusion of 18 January 2008 appeared six months after the natural disaster and the United Kingdom's prompt application.
This chimes with the bad tradition of delayed administration of the Solidarity Fund and demands an upgrade of the executive provisions, which Parliament has been calling for since 18 May 2006.
in writing. - (DE) In the wake of natural disasters and the like, temporary accommodation must be provided quickly and makeshift repairs made to essential infrastructure such as, for example, power supply lines, roads, bridges and so on, so that hospitals can start running again, and the Solidarity Fund can be a great help here.
in writing. - (SV) I am voting against this report since it involves an increase in the EU budget.
Payments to Britain for the floods in 2007 should be found within the existing budget since there is scope for re-prioritisation, for example by not increasing the budget for Galileo.
Junilistan objects to this.
in writing. - (PT) The first amendment to the Community Budget for 2008 includes mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund for an amount of approximately EUR 162.4 million in favour of the United Kingdom - having regard to the floods there in 2007 - as well as the introduction of new budget lines and transfers between budget lines, not affecting the total amounts of the overall budget.
The establishment plan of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (Frontex) is increased by 25 posts, from 69 to 94, having regard to the budgetary increase already made for that Agency - approximately EUR 30 million - approved during the debate on the 2008 Community budget.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, the first amending budget during implementation of the budget plan for 2008 covers the items grouped under the common heading of adjustments for 'unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances'.
Point 5, proposing the creation of the budget article 27 01 11: Exceptional crisis expenditure, to enable the financing of exceptional expenditure linked to a declared crisis, is of a similar nature.
I share the rapporteur's doubts concerning the financing of the Research Executive Agency and the ERCEA, and also the not wholly coherent conclusion on the creation of budget item 06 01 04 12: Galileo Programme.
The Frontex modified establishment plan deserves to be accepted.
Junilistan objects to this.
I think that these questions are of considerable importance and have therefore voted for the report in its entirety, despite objections in principle to the other amendments proposed by the report.
I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (RO) As a deputy elected in Romania, I praise the approval of the European Parliament's draft resolution on the European Union Draft Amending Budget no. 1/2008.
We also want to support sustainable development in those countries for which current fisheries agreements with the EU are a major source of income by making changes to the EU's trade and aid policy and through various forms of partnership.
The vessel owners should be accountable for the costs arising under the agreements from which they themselves draw benefit, and we want to see continued change in that direction.
Hence we voted in favour of Amendment 8, although that change should take place in a wider context.
That is a particularly important area for action, bearing in mind that, according to international bodies, fishery resources in that country have been noticeably affected due, amongst other things, to illegal, unregulated fishing.
Article 10 of the agreement also provides for the setting up of joint ventures between Community operators and Guinea-Bissau operators with a view to the joint exploitation of the resources.
in writing. - (SV) If the EU partnership agreement were to be terminated with immediate effect, that would have serious consequences for several developing countries and for the many people affected.
This must form part of a major review.
We therefore want to support sustainable development in those countries for which current fisheries agreements with the EU are a major source of income by making changes to the EU's trade and aid policy and through various forms of partnership.
The vessel owners should be accountable for the costs arising under the agreements from which they themselves draw benefit, and we want to see continued change in that direction.
We therefore voted for Amendment 8, although that change should take place in a wider context.
in writing. - (PT) The main objective of the new partnership agreement between the EC and Côte d'Ivoire is to strengthen cooperation between the two parties so as to create a partnership framework within which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and the sound exploitation of living marine resources in Côte d'Ivoire, special attention being given to supporting the fisheries policy of that state.
Members of the Portuguese PSD (Social Democratic Party) therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (PT) This agreement provides for a total of 40 fishing licences to be allocated to EU Member State vessels - five of them to Portugal - for a period of six years from July 2007.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote against the two partnership agreements on fishing between the EU and Guinea-Bissau and Côte d'Ivoire, respectively.
Low-income countries are offered a lump sum payment and, in return, they open up their waters to commercial fishing by EU Member States, mainly in Southern Europe.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my excellent Italian colleague Mr Albertini, which makes a number of recommendations to the players in this sector to improve a situation that is deteriorating because of growing demand for oil and diminishing oil reserves, increasingly congested towns and cities, and a negative impact on human health and climate change.
I support the three chosen areas for combining public policy: encouraging technological developments (cars with emissions of 125 g CO2/km maximum), developing market-based instruments (Emissions Trading Scheme, tax incentives, charges/fares based on environmental impact, etc.) and using flanking measures to enable means of transport and infrastructure to be used as efficiently as possible.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, transport undoubtedly has an impact on society's socio-economic condition and, at the same time, it has direct implications for the environment.
in writing. - (PL) Amendment 1 to the report on sustainable European transport policy tabled by the PPE-DE Group was a cause for justified concern - both for me and for the entire transport sphere.
To accept this amendment would be to send a negative signal from the European Parliament and would contradict the report by the European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety of 28 January 2008.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of this report on sustainable transport policy.
Finally, I must point out that, in addition to listing problems already clearly identified, we need policies to respond effectively to those problems, such as challenging the current capitalist globalisation and the role of transport within that framework, in particular the increasing geographical distance between the point of production and the point of consumption, and the consequent rise in transport needs.
in writing. - I and my Fine Gael colleagues in the PPE-DE Group would like to confirm that we abstained in relation to Amendments 3 and 11, and indeed the overall report, due to concerns over the issue of taxation and road charging.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of the harmonisation of transport, environmental and energy policy within the European Union, because only coordinated efforts in these three sectors can bring about a lasting improvement in each one individually.
In order to reduce gas emissions and improve the efficiency of freight and passenger transport, I would also stress the need for the EU to provide financial support for the implementation of priority projects in the framework of the trans-European networks.
in writing. - (DE) The Albertini report states that better internalisation of external costs can help to eliminate market disturbances and an increase in emissions.
