Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 29 November 2001.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting The Minutes of Thursday 29 November have been distributed.
Mr Wynn, I can assure you that you will receive an answer very soon. (The Minutes of the previous sitting were approved) Order of business The next item is the final draft agenda as drawn up at the Conference of Presidents pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
Madam President, with regard to the telecommunications package which we are going to vote on - tomorrow, in principle - I would like to ask that the vote be delayed until Wednesday.
We have just held a meeting with the Council and the Commission and they advise us that, so that the various groups may have time to examine the compromise proposals, that vote should be held a day later. (Parliament gave its assent) Regarding Wednesday Madam President, on Wednesday's draft agenda there is a joint debate on the Middle East at 3 p.m.
It might be helpful for colleagues if in advance of that debate, in which there will be a great deal of interest, Parliament's services would consider reprinting copies of the joint address to this House by the Speaker of the Knesset and the Speaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
The message delivered on that occasion might shed some light in our current darkness.
Mr Beazley, I believe you are referring to the speeches that Mr Avraham Burg and Mr Abu Ala gave to Parliament.
Of course, Mr Barón Crespo, I think that this is a very good suggestion.
I find this a grave discourtesy to the Members of this House who signed that letter and I also find it astonishing that a minister in the EU presidency should come before a packed meeting of an intergroup and say that she has written to me when she knew full well that this was a lie and no letter had been sent.
I hope, therefore, Madam President that you will confirm, on behalf of this House, that this sort of behaviour by a minister in the presidency is gravely discourteous and not going to be tolerated in future.
Of course, Mr Bradbourn, I wholeheartedly agree with you.
Madam President, I had announced that I wanted to make a statement on behalf of the Socialist Group with regard to the constitutional crisis in the European Union following the last meeting of the Council of Justice and Interior Ministers last week.
Since 11 September, the European Council, on two occasions, in Brussels and in Ghent, has maintained the same approach, without reservations from any Head of State or Government.
The European Parliament has dealt with the Commission' s two proposals by means of an urgency procedure, with huge support at the last part-session in Brussels.
Today, Parliament is going to be consulted once again and we are in a situation where one government, the Italian government, is refusing to accept something which is clear to all the institutions of the European Union.
The House anticipated that an agreement might not be reached and recommended at least consideration of the use of Article 40 of the Treaty which would allow a number of countries to proceed on the basis of reinforced cooperation.
The government and the Italian people have paid the price of terrorist attacks in recent years and have always been in the front line.
Anyone who wants to exploit the tragic events of 11 September to continue with this mad campaign against a legitimately elected government will certainly not find support.
However, Mr Barón Crespo, I also believe this not an issue that should be the subject of party-political controversy, and we also know - please listen to what I am saying, I am trying to be very objective - that no result has been achieved on the party statute.
In principle, the Group of the Greens are in favour of a European arrest warrant, but only after a number of minimum standards have been put in place in the field of law of criminal procedure, for example with regard to legal aid or to criminal investigation methods.
The rationale underlying a European arrest warrant is that all legal systems are more or less the same, and that it really does not matter in which country one is sentenced.
If these systems were alike, it would not be so difficult to establish these minimum standards.
I know that sooner or later, everyone will support these minimum standards, but our group has made them a condition for a European arrest warrant.
We are in favour of a European arrest warrant, but only when this condition has been met.
I think it is a very good sign that we shall be debating the question of refugees and immigrants during the urgent debate on Thursday, and I would be most obliged, Madam President, if you would convey these views to the Council in Laeken.
Certainly, Mr Fitzsimons.
As you know, Parliament has decided to include this issue in the debate on topical questions to be held on Thursday.
I was wondering whether you have had any reply to that letter.
I should like to know whether there is anything further you can do on their behalf and whether you have had that reply.
I would therefore ask you and my fellow Greek MEPs kindly to exert some political pressure to ensure that these spotters can have a court hearing before next Friday.
I really look forward to seeing the reply you have received, which you described as unsatisfactory, and hope you will respond in very robust terms to the Greek Government.
They must not be allowed to keep European citizens in prison without trial.
Let us be clear on one thing: there are fifteen countries here, represented by numerous parties and numerous persuasions, all are equal and of equal value, and no one has the right to tell other countries how to act, as if they were countries which did not belong to Europe.
It is particularly important that you do this on behalf of the whole European Parliament and as you represent a Member State that is not involved on either side.
I believe that there is a common understanding here of the necessity to observe human rights and of the need for cooperation between our two states in the European Union, as well as for respect for the independence of the judiciary.
Through you, Madam President, perhaps I can appeal to all the Greek Members of this House to see whether we can produce some form of joint statement in support of those principles which might advance understanding and lead to a quicker resolution of this issue for the 12 individuals involved.
I would like to say once again that I totally reject ETA and all those who support it or apologise for it.
These photos were taken in the hospital and show the marks ... (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, on Wednesday, we are going to debate an item on cooperation between the European Union and the United States in the fight against terrorism.
This report had to be brought forward very quickly in the light of the events of 11 September.
I will keep this House informed as to progress but I would like you, Madam President, to pass on our comments to the presidency.
Madam President, ten years ago this week, our Sakharov prize winner, Aung San Suu Kyi, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
This Saturday, all living Laureates will go to Oslo to commemorate 100 years of the Nobel Peace Prize - she will not be there.
I would like to inform you that, at the request of several groups, we will be holding a brief but intense commemoration tomorrow to mark the events of 11 September.
It is in a sense a proposal that comes as much from this House as from the other institutions of the European Union because our two temporary committees of inquiry culminated in the recommendation that there should be a body of this kind.
It is, therefore, the work of many hands and if this debate today is considered, calm and, I hope, rational it is because of the extent to which the three sides in the triangle of forces have attempted to come to an agreed conclusion by the time of this second reading debate, in order to expedite the introduction of the new authority itself.
These are substantial powers.
The problem of BSE, for example, is still with us: cases of it have been notified in two previously clear Member States this week.
The procedures whereby such products come in and out of the European Union have to be open, transparent and, above all, safe.
On that basis I commend this proposal to the House.
The feed that is given to livestock also plays its part in ensuring that the food that ends up in our supermarkets and on our tables merits our confidence.
There are many critical issues in this report - the title of the food safety authority has been crucial to us.
Lastly, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Byrne, we need controls.
If we want to carry on guaranteeing safe food, and perhaps even safer food, if we want to win back the people's trust, then we can only do this by meeting these conditions and by tightening up controls.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Whitehead, the Regulation that is before us is ground-breaking, in my view.
Amendment No 22 relates to the funding of the authority.
Madam President, the views of the 370 million citizens of the European Union on the food chain in Europe have dramatically changed in recent years.
Of course the consumer is always right, but on this occasion the European Union legislators have had to redouble their efforts to improve the safety of the food chain in Europe and to restore consumer confidence in food products within the Union.
That not only means improving safety standards of production within the Union but also tightening up rules and conditions for the importation of food products into the Union.
This European Food Authority can work with the 15 governments of the Union, in an advisory and preventative capacity, to guarantee that food products from farm to table comply with the highest public health standards.
We live in an internal market with free movement of goods, persons, services and capital.
I also support the approach taken by Commissioner Byrne in guaranteeing that all interested parties are given due representation with regard to the implementation of the new directives and regulations under the White Paper on food safety.
Indeed, as a result of the Amsterdam Treaty the European Parliament has the power of codecision with regard to the implementation of the new directives and regulations in the area of consumer protection and public health.
I commend the rapporteur, Mr Whitehead, and all involved in producing this excellent report.
At the beginning of 2002, Europe will create its own food safety authority.
That is why we remain in favour of a Management Board composed of 16 members, and not of 12 as proposed in the report.
The European Agency will have to restrict itself to a monitoring role.
For many years, we have been attempting to restore consumer confidence and I believe that the creation of the Food Safety Authority is a step towards achieving this goal.
Lastly, the Authority must be independent and utterly transparent.
At the same time, monitoring must be increased and, in the case of a serious offence, penalties must be substantial as well as effective.
These are worrying statistics, and we are not even talking about other food-related illnesses.
Politicians cannot and must not ignore these emotions, but we must consider the facts.
I would like to finish off with a word of thanks to the rapporteur who has proved to personify the self-same quality and authority.
In order to do so, the Food Safety Authority must apply, from the beginning of 2002, the principles of transparency and monitoring that my fellow Members have already mentioned.
But in those cases where export increases food safety in the countries concerned, export of this kind must be allowed.
Furthermore, I am opposed to organising hearings in the European Parliament prior to appointing the members of the management board.
Several years have already passed since the beginning of this procedure; this proposal has been on the table since 1999, at least, so it is high time that the decision is taken.
With reference to general food law, I would like to mention, in particular, that this represents a real success in developing the principle of a seamless improvement in the food chain from farmer to consumer.
The Council must finally give in on this and select a location that will facilitate communication with the Commission, Parliament and the Member States.
As has already been established, the European Parliament has been very active for several years now in questions relating to food safety.
The rapporteur has also carried out very valuable work by holding discussions with the Commission and Council, in order to ensure that the start-up of the food authority is not delayed; this means that at the Laeken Summit a genuine decision really has to be made concerning the siting of the office.
We mean that in the internal market, we will ensure that we can guarantee food safety everywhere.
That not only includes Europe' s fifteen Member States, but also all the candidate countries.
I wonder if the Commissioner would be willing to give us some information on that score, enabling us to see what we can do about this in future.
Madam President, life is one constant risk-benefit analysis - what we do, where we go and what we eat.
While the European food chain remains one of the safest in the world, recent scandals have damaged our consumers' confidence in the food we eat and the methods we use to produce it.
Since the beginning of your tenure, Commissioner Byrne, you have responded to the needs of the consumers of Europe by making every effort to improve the safety of the food chain.
This proposal is one of key importance for consumer protection in the European Union.
The result of their consensual approach has been to strengthen and unify the voice of the European Parliament on the key issue at stake.
Keeping the word 'safety' in the title of the authority will give a clear signal to consumers as to its purpose and goals.
In conclusion, in relation to risk management, the measured and proportionate use of the proportionary principle or the political management ... (The President cut the speaker off) Madam President, the issue of food safety is one of the many unifying factors in the Europe of the citizens we want.
It should act as a transparently functioning scientific reference point for the Commission, Parliament and the Member States, but it should also be open for producers and consumers.
I hope that the new authority can deliver on this for our consumers and for our citizens.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank President Prodi for his ongoing support during our work to make his idea a concrete reality.
The wide scope of the general food law covering all aspects of the food and feed production chain that may have a direct or indirect impact on the safety of food has been maintained throughout the first and second readings.
The Commission welcomes this.
These replace Amendments Nos 2 to 6, 9, 11, 12, 15, 17, 18, 20, 25 and 27, which I do not support.
I can also accept Amendments Nos 7, 10, 13, 14, 16, 19, 21 and 26.
Many of these add clarity to the text or enhance the transparency of the development of food law or the procedures of the European Food Safety Authority.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 8 which would allow unsafe food and feed to be exported from the Community to the original supplier in a third country without any constraints or controls.
Rejected food or feed could end up being used either in a third country or being shipped back to the EU and that would constitute a risk to food safety.
I believe that Amendment No 37 on the board's size, the selection process and membership criteria achieves the right balance between the different views expressed at first reading by the three institutions.
I want to thank you for the close working relationship that existed between all of us - not just between our two great institutions, but also on a personal level between myself and all four of you.
In addition, I would like to thank the Council, both the Swedish and Belgian presidencies, and also the Minister Magda Aelvoet, who put her own shoulder to the wheel on this issue on a number of occasions.
The spirit of collaboration with which the three great institutions have approached this file has been admirable.
I would also like to sincerely thank the Belgian Presidency, which has shown enormous commitment in its efforts to facilitate a compromise between the Council and Parliament, and I think that if we are able to reach agreement on Wednesday, and I very much hope we will, it will be entirely due to the excellent way in which the Belgian Presidency has handled the negotiations.
However, I also, of course, owe very special thanks to all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs who have not only co-operated in such an outstanding way over a period of many months, but have also worked together on the compromises so constructively.
The monopolies of the established service providers have been broken, and there has been complete liberalisation and deregulation of the market in many areas, which has benefited both consumers and the economy in general.
One clear result of all this has been a fall in prices and a variety of new products and services from the various providers.
This was evident from the 1999 telecommunications report and from the seventh implementation report recently published by the Commission.
I would just like to mention a couple of key concepts: local loop unbundling for the benefit of alternative service providers, where further action is still needed in the Member States, and the subscriber's link to the network, which is still unsatisfactory in some Member States.
I would first like to briefly present my two reports on the telecommunications package and I would then like to turn to two other critical points regarding the other directives.
One of this Parliament's achievements has been the introduction of greater transparency in the granting of rights of way, for example drawing up a register setting out the procedures for granting rights of way in the Member States, and we have also managed to ensure that legal protection against rulings on rights of ways is guaranteed in all Member States.
Should it be necessary to reach a compromise on the whole package, Parliament will surrender its own position in favour of the Council's recommendation.
Perhaps he could say something about the two points which I am particularly concerned about later on in the debate.
Now, the Council only wants to include this article or this proposal as a recital in the decision.
In the decision, or rather in the Belgian Presidency proposal that I now have before me, I see that by deleting two little words in Amendment No 1, that is to say 'in particular' , the decision-making power is in fact to be considerably extended.
So I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council in this case, too, if he could consider whether we could not agree to delete those two little words, which would mean that we would be respecting the principle of subsidiarity and thus achieving a solution between the Council and Parliament.
This is about who will have power of decision in future when there are questions about telecommunications law - the Commission or the Member States.
However, the compromise that has now emerged, according to which the Commission can intervene in matters of competition law, and in particular in matters of market definition and with regard to what constitutes significant market power, is, I believe, a very fair one.
The amended proposals from the Belgian Presidency have been one of the greatest disappointments in all this, so that we will achieve nothing or very little in this area.
The core philosophy of the entire grand project for an electronic Europe is that the digital divide should not take hold in Europe in the way that it threatens to take hold in many other parts of the world; and we, as well as Parliament, the Council and the Commission all share a common line here.
I could venture to say that if we had had these regulations in force at the time when we decided on the 'electronic Europe' at Lisbon and when (at the same time) the auction in frequencies was initiated, then it would not have been possible for the catastrophe of the frequency auctions to unfold in the way that it did.
It takes account of Parliament's stance in two central matters which we have been taking up for discussion throughout this summer and autumn: Article 6 and Article 4.
The aim was, in fact, to secure greater confidence in market forces in order to boost the competitiveness of the European market and encourage investment in the emerging markets, facilitating the provision of innovative services.
The new model should introduce a transitional phase that fosters this transition to a telecommunications market that can be managed in the same way as any other economic sector in strict respect for competition rules.
To this end, Mr Daems, Commissioner Liikanen, allow me to illustrate an amendment which I tabled together with 51 Members from different political groups precisely to Mr Paasilinna' s directive.
Mr Paasilinna has worked very hard on his proposal on the framework directive on telecommunications.
This amendment seeks to make things clearer for operators, to avoid fragmentation in the application of Community law in the various Member States and to ensure the development of a genuine internal telecommunications market.
The adoption of my proposal would facilitate harmonisation, which can only be achieved by establishing unambiguously defined power allowing the European Commission to intervene to guarantee that the application of Community law is coherent with objectives and pursues the same goals in all the Member States.
The common position that we received from the Council was a major advance over the first reading text and I would like to thank the Council and Commission for accepting so many of Parliament's ideas and suggestions.
The new text has been substantially restructured and clarified which is important for effective transposal in Member States.
It is worth reminding all of us in this House that these are very much seen as transitional measures towards a fully open market in which competition rules will reign supreme.
I would like to thank the Council for working so closely with us and also to thank my colleagues on the Legal Affairs Committee who worked very closely with me in making suggestions.
I am pleased to say that at the common position stage, we have a clear indication in a separate article about the importance of Member States providing for disabled users on a wide range of services, in particular ensuring that disabled users have the sort of choice and range of services that all other consumers expect.
The second area that we focused on in second reading was to ensure that small- and medium-sized enterprises also benefit from the sort of users' rights that are required for individual consumers.
We want SMEs to really buy into e-commerce, into the new possibilities afforded to them by enhanced electronic communications.
The Council and Commission have told us that this is already covered fully in the access and interconnection directive, but colleagues have not agreed with that.
I should also like to include the Commission in my thanks, which, together with the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, helped us in every way possible to reach a common position.
By process, I mean the procedure we followed to reach a package which is hopefully acceptable to Parliament.
It is therefore in this context that the response, prepared by the presidency, to the recommendations for second reading concerning the directives which are now before us, can, in fact, be seen as a very balanced response, which in the view of the presidency might be acceptable.
In my view, it is indeed self-evident that a new policy requires information and involvement by, for example, Parliament, certainly when it comes to the use of the existing spectrum.
Despite this, I believe that this general principle will necessitate a clarification from the party applying it, namely the Commission, and I therefore also believe that explanatory statements by the Commission, not simply on this score but also on a number of other aspects, could prove useful, as a number of rapporteurs have already stated.
I am not saying this because I like saying this, but because political realism, with which we are all familiar, teaches us that, if we want to proceed swiftly, we need to adopt a common position which offers a huge amount of benefits.
It is in this context that the response of the Council' s presidency is being presented to you here, and I would not like to see my colleagues who have asked me to tell you this, revisiting their previous common position by running a risk and tugging at a string - and I am saying this in all candour - for I then believe that we would be at a complete loss as to know where we would end up in some future procedure or other.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would firstly like to thank the President-in-Office for his straight-forward language, for he is simply saying 'take it or leave it' .
Thanks to you, and I should say, thanks to many of my fellow MEPs here in the European Parliament, this has now been rectified, fortunately.
Article 6 has been mentioned many times.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to touch on a few points in the short time I have available.
Mr Daems, you quite rightly pointed out that you have achieved a great deal in the Council and you also referred to the flexibility on the part of the Council that this involved.
I believe that we in this House have one particular problem with this, and I have already heard a lot of people saying that it is difficult to have an informal trialogue as part of the second reading.
I think that we here in Parliament - and I am addressing this comment more to Parliament than to the Commission and the Council, although it indirectly affects them too of course - will have to make a greater investment in ensuring that we have whatever support is required to tackle such a complex task from a political point of view.
Nevertheless, by means of cooperation and consultation, the national regulatory authorities have the power to ensure that they can take appropriate action to influence their national markets.
I cannot understand our countries, why they are not in favour of interoperability in the area of standards.
I will return to this in a moment, for I would also like to thank all my fellow MEPs, and especially the rapporteurs, for the pleasant and close working relationship so far.
I would like to express my appreciation of your efforts not only personally, but also on behalf of my group, and I know that sometimes things get sorted out in the corridor, over a coffee or in other informal ways, over a sumptuous meal, for example.
However, I too will close by mentioning the crucial points that other Members have already touched upon, and which I do not really think are solved in the compromise: interoperability, digital television, transmission obligations, and Article 6 of the framework directive.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs on behalf of my group and on behalf of Parliament for the tremendous work that they have done on their joint reports.
First there is the universal service aspect - the universal obligation that my colleague Malcolm Harbour was talking about.
On top of that, as already mentioned by Malcolm Harbour, there is the question of disabled access.
Companies and institutions must be forced to adapt their services to suit the needs of the consumers and particularly those consumers to whom the Internet and the telecommunications revolution could open the most possibilities of all by bringing them into the real world and bringing them into dialogue.
Finally, the eSchola initiative is a great one.
Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, rapporteurs, I wholly support the objective underlying the raft of proposals we are about to vote on, that of supplementing the internal market with liberalisation and the introduction of a system of genuine competition in a sector such as the telecommunications sector which is vitally important for Europe, its economy and the well-being of its citizens.
I do not feel this will be the case; indeed, the fate of the regulation on unbundling the local loop, despite its almost unanimous adoption, and the difficulties encountered in its implementation bear witness to this.
An underlying contradiction still remains in many Member States, specifically in those where publicly controlled telecommunications companies are still very influential and where, as a result, the State finds itself acting as both player and referee at the same time.
The package, as now formulated, seems a big improvement on the original proposal but we are still looking for consumers' concern about levels of competition and service to be addressed through faster transition to a true internal market governed by general competition rules.
But it must reflect growing expectations of users and consumers for a minimum set of services at an affordable price, guaranteeing access for all.
The telecoms revolution has created a rise in consumer expectations.
It is our job to respond and ensure that our legislative framework in the EU can deliver competition and consumer benefits.
This directive must ensure genuine universal access and extend to all users, especially those with special social needs, those on low incomes and those with disabilities.
In my country alone, two million blind and partially-sighted people could benefit from this directive if the Council and the Commission accept our amendments.
Finally, on 'must carry' provisions, we need to find a means to allow services and channels in the public interest to be carried on cable and satellite platforms.
The fact is that market conditions do not always provide 'must carry'.
We favour a quick deal but it is conditional on the Council and the Commission accepting our amendments, which are a genuine and committed attempt to ensure that the brave new world of electronic communications is genuinely universal.
That is important for this sector' s competitiveness in relation to other sectors within the telecommunications sector.
Mr President, I would particularly like to join in thanking the Commission, the Council and all those Members involved.
I very much I regret this, whilst praising the Belgian Presidency for everything else it has achieved, but this is the drawback of this outcome: the course is now being set for equal access via a common standard for digital television, and we naturally need to strike a balance between developing the market and public interest obligations, and these two points of view have been taken into account by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market in their opinions.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, as everything has been said, but not by me - as they say - I will make two or three points simply to underline what has been discussed by the previous speakers.
I belong to the minority who, at first reading, were not satisfied with Article 6 of the framework directive.
I think a balance has been achieved between the national regulators' shadowing of the market and the Commission's right of veto, in order to stimulate the progress of the internal market, of which we are all in favour, even my group.
This combination was successful in dragging Member States and national regulatory authorities - some of them kicking and screaming - towards a workable pan-European approach.
We need sensible compromises, and we need them in quick order.
I would like to ask Commissioner Liikanen whether in his view the presidency compromise encompasses those points of principle contained in both the framework directive and the universal service directive.
There have been serious criticisms by disabled users about non-implementation of the RTTE directive and this is a crucial point for many of us.
I very much hope that when we vote on Wednesday we will have reached an agreement between the political groups and between the three institutions.
These reports will play a critical role, not just in shaping the future of telecoms but also in ensuring a greater choice in competition in the European market.
Even more importantly, I hope they will go some way, in our drive for the knowledge-based society, towards lessening the divide there is between those who have access to information technology and those who do not.
To achieve these ambitious objectives, we first need to influence the way in which Member States regulate access and interconnection and secondly we need operators with SMP to grant other network operators interconnection facilities in a transparent way.
I know that this directive may not be the place for such detailed information, however, in the absence of any movement from the operators, I believe it is important for us to highlight this issue.
Mr President, since the European Council in Lisbon, we have travelled a long way in a relatively short space of time.
The three institutions, Council, Parliament and Commission, were aware that the time factor was vital in the case of one of the fastest-developing technologies.
I am speaking in my capacity as rapporteur of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, with responsibility for consideration of the authorisation and radio spectrum directives, and also as my group's shadow rapporteur on the framework directive.
Technical convergence does indeed mean that electronic services cannot be divided up by reference to their channels of distribution or the devices used to receive them, but this is specifically, in our view, about digital television and other services related to journalism.
But I do not want a market where competition rules supreme.
So, I would suggest to the Commission and Council that Parliament is offering them an opportunity to improve the balance of the package before them, and I would urge them to accept the proposals being put forward by Parliament.
That document indicates that liberalisation in general is having a net beneficial effect, but I would suggest to the Commission that they need to come forward with a lot more research and hard evidence in relation to specific sectors to convince me that it is true in all cases.
We are indeed currently finding that the new directives mean that we will have to deal with a flood of confusing information about telecommunications charges, and transparency should surely be at least as important in economics as in politics.
The Council and the Commission exerted considerable pressure on Parliament to consider their proposal as set in stone.
However, eight amendments have been tabled by members of five different groups, which in fact proves that the basic text is insufficient.
We would like to stress to the Minister that we, like everyone here, welcome the speech on reducing the digital divide, but we would also like Parliament to be permitted, now and again, to have the power of co-decision.
Mr President, electronic services are a public commodity in a modern knowledge society.
The package of compromise amendments before you today has a broad level of support in the Council, as the presidency told us today.
In this way, the package provides a transition to the final objective we all share: reliance on competition law to control market power in the electronic communications sector.
The new framework simplifies and deregulates national licensing regimes, removing prior regulatory control over market access for network and service provision, and focusing such controls only on frequency and numbering resources.
Mr Martin asked me about the impact of this solution for the digital divide and employment.
It is very clear that universal service has a key impact on availability.
But we also need policy measures which concentrate on the skills of all citizens and on content.
I will explain how the compromise package deals with the three fundamental issues that dominated discussion between the Council and Parliament during second reading: right of appeal (Article 4), the transparency mechanism (Article 6 of the framework directive), including matters related to radio spectrum, and finally interoperability of digital TV equipment - which has been raised by many colleagues tonight.
Radio spectrum is covered by Article 6, paragraph 2, whereby regulators are required to cooperate with each other to ensure consistent application of the regulatory framework.
The Spectrum Decision in its present form will set up a general and permanent framework for addressing radio spectrum policy and legal issues in the context of all relevant Community policy areas.
The Spectrum Decision makes it possible to take appropriate action to ensure efficient use of spectrum and spectrum management.
Many Members of the European Parliament have raised the issue of digital television.
On digital TV interoperability, the compromise package goes towards Parliament' s position, by taking over much of the European Parliament text.
But - and I emphasise this - the provisions of Article 16 on standardisation allow standards to be made mandatory one year after entry into force of the directive if interoperability cannot be ensured by the use of voluntary standards.
Article 16 means that one year after entry into force of the directive, the Commission must organise public consultation then propose the comitology procedure, followed by Commission adoption.
Mrs Read and Mr Fitzsimons raised the issue of the disabled here today.
The compromise package is always a compromise.
But I do not want to forget the shadow rapporteurs and those other Members of the European Parliament who have participated so actively in the discussion of the telecoms package.
I hope that this package will be accepted this week in Parliament.
I would inform Members that the services of the Bureau have a list of the amendments accepted and not accepted by the Commission.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
This year, I am delighted to say that the Commission has produced a very thorough and generally much better report and I would like to thank them for the cooperation they have shown.
Anyway, I would like to thank colleagues in the Employment and Social Affairs Committee for their amendments which have generally improved the report substantially.
The challenge for everybody in the year 2002 is therefore to present the report in the November plenary rather than in the December plenary.
I note with great interest the Minutes of the Industry Council meeting on 4 and 5 December, which proudly proclaimed real progress under the Belgian presidency towards "better practices geared towards elimination of red tape".
SMEs currently account for two-thirds of all workers - the majority of all workers employed in the European Union.
A multiannual programme was started to benefit an initiative towards growth and employment.
Parliament can, though, only take responsibility and perform its supervisory function if information is available in good time.
Thank you, Mr President.
The report is about this Growth and Employment Initiative and about the three financial instruments which have been developed with this initiative in mind, namely the ETF start-up facility, the JEV programme and the SME Guarantee Facility.
This initiative is the brain child of the European Parliament that was developed in the wake of the Luxembourg Summit in 1997, and right from the outset, it was made very clear at the time that the initiatives should not only focus on this highly advanced technological sector, but should also embrace the social sector, and I am of the opinion that we cannot repeat this enough.
I hope that we can find a compromise on that score at tomorrow' s vote, for it would be unfortunate if this report were not adopted unanimously.
I agree with the criticisms made of the Commission's report and many of the points made in relation to support that SMEs need, both by the rapporteur and by other speakers here tonight.
The stated intention of the SME guarantee facility is to stimulate job creation by supporting the investment activities of SMEs within the EU through increased availability of loan finance.
This report is a plea to grant greater financial assistance to small- and medium-sized businesses.
I shall of course vote against this report.
In particular, I know that the committee's report - and I quote: "welcomes generally the content and analysis within the thorough and more comprehensive 2000 report and commends the Commission and the EIF where progress has been made".
The Commission has helped the rapporteur by providing an advance copy of the report before publication.
The geographical distribution of the project signed under both the ETF start-up and the SME guarantee programmes varies considerably.
The difficulties of implementing ETF start-up in all countries of the Union stems from the different stage of development of the venture capital market in various countries, coupled with the requirement that ETF start-up only invests pari passu with at least 50% of capital provided by the private sector.
Similarly, it led the Commission to propose diversification in the SME guarantee portfolios, for instance towards microloans in favour of the smallest enterprises and ICT loans that allow small enterprises to take advantage of the potential of electronic commerce.
But I and my services will keep you informed accordingly of any developments in this regard.
Quite apart from the matter under discussion, I wish, then, to emphasise that we need the right of co-decision in all agricultural policy matters so that, as we have done in this instance, we can come to sound and sensible results and make use of the expertise and political wisdom that reign in Parliament to support the Commission - and, I would expressly observe, to support a strong position taken by the Commission - to achieve satisfactory outcomes in the debates with the Council.
It is a long time, 25 years, since then, but patience is needed in politics as everywhere else.
The result we have achieved is a change of direction - a change to the right direction.
We have likewise obliged the Commission to supply us with a positive list, or at least a draft positive list, by the end of next year, so that we can achieve a positive result in this area within the life of this Parliament.
I believe we have done a good job, and it was interesting to take part in a conciliation procedure of this sort.
This result is something we can face our countries and our electors with.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, most of us agree that we achieved a very good result in the Conciliation Committee.
I therefore wish, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, to congratulate, above all, the rapporteur on his commitment to the matter in hand and, most of all, warmly thank him for cooperating so well with his other colleagues, too.
In addition to this proposal for a regulation, though, there are other reports which also deal with feedingstuffs and with regard to which negotiations are currently in progress between Parliament, the Council and, above all, the Commission.
I do think that it should continue to be possible to use these by-products, processed under secure conditions and subject to strict controls and, above all, with the stages in processing being effectively monitored, as high-quality feedingstuffs in pig and poultry production, unless the results of future scientific research suggest otherwise.
Almost two years of negotiations with the Commission and the Council within the framework of the conciliation procedure have at last enabled us to reach a compromise on regulations on the labelling of compound feedingstuffs.
I see this directive as proof that Parliament must in future have a right of co-decision in agricultural matters as well.
The marketing of compound feedingstuffs today has certainly improved in terms of traceability and transparency of composition - two issues of great concern for our major customer, the European citizen.
This led to a difference in view between Council and Parliament after the second reading in April.
The Commission has already launched a feasibility study on this issue.
I accordingly undertake to send the report on the outcome of this study to the Council and Parliament as soon as possible and in any case before 31 December, 2002.
I cannot, however, guarantee that I will be in a position to present a legislative proposal on the establishment of a positive list.
Thank you very much Commissioner Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.30 p.m.)
