Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing that must be said is that Socrates is a success story.
The Commission has taken account of this premise on numerous counts.
In 31 countries - that is, the 15 Member States, the candidate countries and the members of the European Economic Area - 2 000 universities, 40 000 university lecturers and more than 460 000 students took part in further education exchanges under Erasmus alone.
This being so, the increase in the multiannual budget from the original figure of EUR 850 million to a current EUR 933 million - achieved by Parliament during all-night sittings - was the right thing to do.
If new candidate countries join in 2004 - the programme runs until 2007 - then this programme needs to be built up.
But at the same time, we can - and it makes sense to - link up with the Youth and Leonardo da Vinci programmes.
But the time taken to prepare new contracts has resulted in disgraceful delays in payments, especially under Comenius.
The first point is the question of decentralisation.
It has proven its worth, but the national agencies have a counterpart in Brussels; in future, this role will be filled by the executive agencies.
My second point is the question of financial control.
The Commission should be given the necessary support here through Parliament in general and the Committee on Budgetary Control in particular.
But the weaknesses in the system also need to be pointed out.
We must force cooperation with other Community programmes because we want programmes to run in parallel rather than in series, so that we can make use of available resources.
All this is important if we are to be able to pursue or refine the programme.
The Socrates Programme must be managed efficiently, and this also includes coordination with other European programmes.
The rapporteur even had to fight to get a separate debate on education on our agenda this morning.
It is very clear - the lack of linguistic skills among students in Britain.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Socrates programme is a good example of action that relates closely to the people and which has an important European value-added element.
I would gladly hear more from our Member States on this, not just on Socrates, but on their responsibility, on what education means for Europe.
The names of old Europeans are being used: Comenius, Erasmus, Grundtvig - these old names trip off the lips of young people as easily as the words to a rap song.
Doris Pack said that Socrates is there for us from the cradle to the grave.
May I first of all acknowledge the value and potential of Socrates and in so doing thank the rapporteur for her work.
The new procedures are now in place.
Symmetry will be developed in 2002 and 2003.
The 2002 call for proposals will take place in April and the topics chosen are social integration of target groups, active citizenship amongst the young, local guidance networks, formal and informal training.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the Culture 2000 programme has been a constant concern of the parliamentary committee of which I am a member.
The report that I am presenting reflects the deeply and widely held opinion of all the members of the parliamentary committee who voted for it.
These are lines of cultural policy that are of importance to all Member States and, with the prospect of enlargement, to all Europeans.
Lastly, Mr President, I should like to ask Commissioner Reding to view this report as a tool which could help the Commission to more effectively undertake the tasks entrusted to it in this field; its present tasks, now that the Programme has reached its halfway stage, and its future tasks, as long as the experience it has gained - as I said - can lead to an even better programme following on from Culture 2000.
Mr President, the procedure we are dealing with, the control of a programme throughout its execution, is normal in any Parliament.
This means that a programme that directly affects what we call the heart of Europe and which replaces other programmes that in the last few years have been most enthusiastically received by the most dynamic and youngest citizens of the European Union, has been allocated little more than EUR 33 million per year, an amount so small within the already modest Community budget that it disappoints those of us who see the European Union as something more than solely a vehicle for agricultural and structural spending.
On this basis, we should remember two circumstances: the first is that the Culture 2000 programme exists alongside other resolutions from this Parliament which should produce guidelines for its implementation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Culture 2000 programme is ideal for promoting European cultural cooperation.
You do realise that art and culture have an exponential effect on our integration policy and if we lose these partners along our common way, then our numbers shall dwindle and our strength in this fight, which we really do want to join forces on, will be sapped.
I am already fed up with saying the same things, but we must keep on saying them.
There are plenty of problems.
Article 151 of the Maastricht Treaty should indeed be implemented, but if you study the text of that article it appears to be an incentive.
Bear in mind that we are also discussing education today, and we know that education is forging ahead precisely because we moved beyond providing encouragement.
Obviously, there is more to all this than the problems we are confronted with in connection with Culture 2000 and culture in general and which are budgetary in nature.
Madam President, I would firstly like to make an observation with regard to all the issues we deal with in the parliamentary committee which I belong to, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.
Unfortunately, it is not even to be found in the practical implementation of Culture 2000.
The European Union is the most powerful economic area in the world.
But the European Union is also a cultural area of immeasurable diversity.
We must never neglect the historic environment in all our countries.
I am very grateful to Mr Graça Moura for conducting the discussion on the future concept for Culture 2000 so openly in his report and express my support to him for doing so.
The rapporteur is right to highlight the explicit recognition of culture as an economic factor and also as a factor in social integration and citizenship.
The programme was set up on 14 February 2000 and has therefore just celebrated its second birthday.
It emerges from this report that there are a number of points on which Parliament agrees with the Commission, even though we do not always explain conclusions regarding the current programme in the same way.
Slovenia was added to the list this year, bringing the number of participating countries to 28.
I believe that things have been firmed up and criteria set and published for the next three years, from 2002 to the end of the programme.
Initial results of this new approach show that priority issues, whilst they retain their priority, only represent 48% of all projects under Action I, and 58% of the total for Action II.
Madam President, I should like to emphasise something I hope is very clear, namely that the cultural dimension is not isolated and is not enshrined solely in the Culture 2000 programme.
Thank you, Commissioner Reding.
The debate is closed.
The European Youth Programme was adopted on 13 April 2000 and runs for seven years up to 2006.
Thirty countries take part in the programme - the Member States, and also Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and the candidate countries with the exception of Turkey and Malta.
In 2000, there were no projects in Action 5, which deals with support measures.
According to the Commission, 50% of the centrally-managed projects were able to include disadvantaged young people.
Let me say in conclusion that the Member States must not cut back on their own youth exchange programmes.
The rationale behind the choice of these programmes can be traced back to the decisive consideration that the programmes in question are surely the Community's most important support programmes in the fields of education, youth, and European culture.
We welcome the initiative taken in forming the evaluation group as well as that to extend this control machinery on the basis of new instruments and appropriate structures.
We also emphasise that it is heavy demand from within the Member States that has led to the Socrates, Youth, and Culture 2000 programmes being allocated additional resources.
The wonderful thing is, though, that more and more Europeans are experiencing this in their daily lives.
As the rapporteur has just said, it is one of the Community's most important support programmes, being the only one open to all young people without reference to their working or educational situation.
It is appropriate in terms of the programme's resources, rated at just about EUR 80 million, and of the relatively high administrative costs of EUR 12 million, and the Commission should succeed in achieving this objective.
There are tens of millions - the figure is somewhere in the region of 60 million - children under 18 years of age in Europe and we should be looking at how a whole series of their rights are trampled underfoot at that tender age.
The inclusion of worthwhile projects with disadvantaged youth groups, I assure you, is worth every penny of the expenditure.
The second set of critical comments is of a political nature and concerns the thinly disguised intention of using these programmes as a basis to develop propaganda aimed at turning the younger citizens of our Member States into an a-national sub-species of 'homo-europeus' .
We should not forget that young people are our future, the future of Europe and of a large part of the world, and this project is trying to bring the youth of more than thirty countries closer together.
Additionally, administrative costs should not be too high and, lastly, I would like to ask the national governments for assistance in granting visas to those youths from outside the European Union who want to participate in these programmes.
A number of Members have, in fact, recognised the effort made in recent years and months.
We shall do our best to ensure that the remaining projects become more accessible to them in the future.
It is therefore essential to ensure female participation in the Youth programmes to attain the desired results.
EUR 14 million is allocated to it for the period 2002-2004, which represents a 40% increase in available funds.
This is very significant, because we need to foster links with countries in the southern Mediterranean and in northern Africa in order to promote better understanding and to ensure that immigrants to Europe from those areas provide solutions rather than creating additional difficulties.
Thank you, Commissioner Reding.
The debate is closed.
We heard last night the statement by Commissioner Liikanen, which was part of this package.
A report (A5-0024/2002) by Mr Blak on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control on action taken by the Commission on the observations contained in the resolution accompanying the decision giving discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the 1999 financial year (COM(2001) 696 - C5-0577/2001 -2001/2123(DEC)).
Report MacCormick (A5-0032/2002) Mr President, everyone is aware that parliamentary immunity was not instituted to safeguard the personal interests of elected representatives.
Recommendation for second reading Flesch (A5-0027/2002) Mr President, this document provides for the establishment of the '.eu' domain for use as the country code in URLs.
For example, Article No 20 of the basic decision states that discharge of the Fund' s expenditure can only be granted by the Member States after the three institutions have given their assent; Article No 6 of the agreement states that these institutions should be regularly informed of the implementation of expenditure; Article No 4 states that any increase must be authorised by them.
In fact, the working conditions of the various parliamentary representatives - the European Parliament, the national parliaments of the Member States and the national parliaments of the candidate countries, are quite unequal, and this three-speed system, in which the European Parliament is disproportionately privileged, will, in all fairness, prove untenable.
We therefore need to provide additional resources to the other two categories, or at least to the third.
Report Mayol i Raynal (A5-0461/2001) Mr President, I was very disappointed to have to vote against the report at the end.
And on behalf of my group I must say we were very disappointed to have to take that negative position because we have supported many of the positive aspects of the report.
Paragraph 29 was the main reason why we had to vote against this report.
Paragraph 29 calls for coordination or harmonisation of taxes in the European Union, in particular with regard to the business environment.
Article 4 of the regulation stipulates that employers' social contributions and taxes paid by employers should be indicated as a single total.
I would like to take this opportunity to add that the Pensioners' Party and I personally call urgently for the reduction in the cost of labour to go hand-in-hand with proper administration of pension funds and for a higher proportion of contributions, which are currently paid into the Member States' budgets, to be channelled instead into the pension funds freely chosen by workers from among the many funds that I hope will soon be set up in Europe, including a single European pension fund open to everybody. , in writing. (SV) We voted in favour of paragraph 29 because we believe that tax coordination is necessary for combating harmful tax competition.
The second strategy is about producing full employment, social integration and lifelong education for all.
The Bullmann report is aimed at retaining a policy of synthesis and compromise.
Nevertheless, in view of its initial ideas, we can only vote against this report.
Report Blak (A5-0024/2002) Mr President, like many other Members, I voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the 1999 financial year, not least because I firmly endorse recital D of this document, which states that the Member States and the Council are responsible for the effective use of resources.
The European Union spends its budget on improving the living conditions of the European citizens, but who verifies whether this expenditure actually serves any purpose?
If the Member States are in control of everything, what are we doing here in Brussels adopting directives and regulations and, most importantly, spending money when we have no control over how it is used?
According to Article 96 of the law on political parties in Turkey, any party with the word 'Communist' in its name is banned.
Nor do they explain why there are still insurmountable obstacles to the Kurdish culture and language, why more than 10 000 political prisoners are languishing in gaol in what we know to be wretched conditions, why political parties which oppose the policies of the Turkish regime are being banned or are threatened with being banned, why democratic freedom fighters are being arrested and murdered on a daily basis and why the 'democratic' Republic of Turkey is still being run by its army.
This is still not the case in Turkey.
The Turkish state does recognise other new states in Europe, including Bosnia-Herzegovina, Lithuania or Slovakia, but is extremely anxious about the modest requests for self-government and cultural rights of a very large minority people in its own country.
Report Gahrton (A5-0028/2002) Mr President, I voted for the motion and welcome this document on the European Union' s relations with the South Caucasus - which, as we know, is made up of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia - which states that the inhabitants of these three states feel European.
This gives me great pleasure and I hope that, in future, these three states will also join the great family of the European Union, but it pains me to read in item 2 of the explanatory statement that the people of the southern Caucasus states live on one dollar per day.
We support Amendment No 2 from Mr Duff and others which urgently calls upon Turkey and Armenia to cooperate in resolving their historic disagreements with a view to improving their cultural, economic and diplomatic links. - (SV) I have voted in favour of the report.
It is with great satisfaction that I note that Amendment No 12 was rejected.
The result of the vote was 391 against, 96 in favour and 15 abstentions.
I know that culture is an extremely important investment, even though it is not tangible, even though it is not a road or a house.
I am therefore genuinely pleased to discover that this programme is running very well, despite a few technical hitches, which will be resolved in its next three years of operation.
Report Gröner (A5-0019/2002) No, Mr President, I am not, on the other hand, a supporter of the 'Youth' programme.
However, I am opposed to one point of this report, or rather, to what I learned on reading page 13 thereof, namely that the young people of the candidate countries have had difficulties in obtaining visas from some of the Member States of the European Union.
