That is unavoidable in an increasingly open world economy, but this fact is of no consolation to the worker who loses his or her job.
On the other hand, we must respect our commitments to China and help it to become a responsible WTO member.
China, provided it avoids unfair trade practices, is entitled to enjoy the benefits of its comparative advantages and its WTO accession, while managing its integration into the global economy in a way that avoids trade disruption.
There is a need to create a positive environment in international trade for textiles and clothing after the end of the textile and clothing agreement.
The truth is that the EU can compete globally but it involves a process of restructuring and adjustment playing to our strengths, not to the strengths of other countries.
The EU and China reached a reasonable and balanced memorandum of understanding on 11 June 2005.
This agreement was the result of months of patient and difficult negotiations aimed at dealing with this problem in a negotiated way with China, rather than through unilateral safeguard action which would inevitably have had unwelcome repercussions.
It also provides a predictable and sure trading environment between the EU and China for the textile and clothing sector enabling businesses, including both the manufacturing industry and importers, to plan their investments with more time and to adjust.
These agreed minutes aim to unblock as a matter of urgency goods shipped after 13 July, the day following the entry into force of the regulation implementing the 11 June memorandum of understanding, in excess of the agreed levels set out in the memorandum of understanding.
In the implementation of the memorandum of understanding, the Commission has acted diligently and transparently.
Should implementation problems arise in the future, the Commission will take expeditiously the necessary measures to ensure full respect of the memorandum of understanding as complemented by the agreed minutes of 5&#160;September.
These and other measures are being examined in the context of the high-level group on textiles and clothing.
Similarly, we would hope that the revised agreement could take appropriate account of the interests not only of the European textile industry, which has put a great deal of effort into adjusting, but also of textile producers in developing countries who have suffered the consequences of the liberalisation of this sector.
In the meantime, we must identify new avenues of development for the European Union’s industrial sectors, which will, in future, enable us to anticipate imbalances and to provide a competitive response to all global challenges.
We know how complicated and how difficult that was and our Group would like to congratulate you warmly on that.
That clearly shows, of course, that many of the talks we have held in the past, in the WTO or in connection with other international agreements, are now presenting us with a new challenge.
You said that business is capable of taking on the competition and pointed out that we are the second largest exporter.
I hope you will not mind me saying this, but the measures that were taken on 5 September to eliminate the quotas, particularly those on the textile products that were blocked in European ports, are reminiscent of a game of panic football.
I hope you can convince me otherwise. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we are now seeing in the textile sector is the beginning of a trend or the emergence of a trend that has been going on for some time and is going to accelerate and become more acute.
If we are now saying that the agreement, the memorandum of understanding, has given us a breathing space, then it really is nothing more than that and will at best only slow the trend down somewhat, but it will not solve the underlying problems.
Consumers want cheap T-shirts.
At the same time, a growing number of people in Europe are supporting campaigns like the Clean Clothes Campaign, promoting products that have been made under fairer conditions.
People want ethical standards in production; they also want ecological standards in production.
At the same time, however, everyone wants to have these low-cost products.
This is a proverb that applies very well to the Commission and to Commissioner Mandelson.
In the matter that put us in opposition to China, the European Union threw in the towel by agreeing to reassess the import quotas.
Moreover, the United States was able to sell its Boeings at the same time as taking the necessary measures to protect its textile industry.
As you declared so cynically, globalisation is a game in which there are winners and losers, but we cannot say that to the people, so we are sometimes required to take tactical measures.
In the immediate future, let us encourage China to concentrate on supplying its internal market, let us re-establish the quotas according to the 2004 standards and let us not forget the poor textile-exporting countries that are the main victims of this irresponsible policy.
I will translate: ‘It is the least protected economy in the world’. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, seeing one child die every minute in the developing world from whooping cough or from measles, when there is a vaccine, is heartbreaking.
Under this principle, the customs duty payable on the textiles would provide the Chinese exporter with a customs credit that would be deductible on his purchases in Europe.
The Chinese exporter could use this customs credit, either on the stock market or by rediscounting it to the banks, and, very simply, we would have invented customs VAT, which has taken 50 years to spread.
Seeing where we have ended up because of technological obscurantism, though, being unable to invent a new generation of customs duties, is heartbreaking, Mr&#160;President. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the go-ahead for the unblocking of Chinese textiles was clearly a concession to China.
It is contrary to the Shanghai philosophy of a controlled increase in imports in order to give the European industry time to adapt.
The Commission has given preference to the interests of importers.
Nonetheless, aggressive Chinese imports demonstrate that the balance of the world trade system depends on converging systems, institutional transparency and converging social and environmental protection standards.
It also depends on effective protection for intellectual and industrial property and avoiding economic, social and ecological dumping practices.
In addition, I believe that effective measures for the gradual adaptation of the European textile industry are needed, as are the necessary balancing measures in keeping with WTO law.
The agreement reached is a sticking plaster on future trade relations with China and European industry must find a way to compete with low-cost competitors.
It is specifically the old-fashioned heavy industries that have tried to do others serious damage by invoking state protection in accordance with the most repellent traditions of the rich OECD countries whose desire has been to protect their own markets but force poor countries to open up theirs.
There are, in actual fact, countries that have taken these matters seriously and that have managed to adapt, and without job losses.
What we heard, however, was more of the same, and attempts at defending the indefensible.
The Barroso Commission had been warned of the grave social and economic consequences for countries such as Portugal, and of the pressing need to activate the safeguard clauses provided for in the trade agreements.
The losers are the European textiles industry, the workers and the thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. &#160;&#160; First of all I would like to express my satisfaction with the fact that the Commission has agreed to restrict the import of Chinese textiles, which have swamped Europe and the developed world, even though it has unfortunately taken exactly one year to do so, during which time events have unfolded as expected.
All economic and political levers should be used to force communist China to open its own markets on a reciprocal basis, to accept the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and thus to comply with minimum standards in the near future.
I believe that the EU will ultimately become a strong player on the world stage, and that the Commissioner will become a strategic decision maker, rather than simply an arbitrator of the occasional dispute. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the reality is that the total opening up of the textile trade on 1 January of this year led to an avalanche of Chinese products.
The Commission proposed restricting these imports and, as a result, reached the agreement in June.
The new agreement of 5 September 2005 contributes to resolving this problem, which had reached a point at which it was not benefiting anybody.
Some people have said, right here today, that the textile industry should have adapted more quickly because it had known what was going to happen for the last 10 years.
Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a situation that is causing alarm in the sector.
For example, prices of trousers entering the Union can oscillate between EUR 6 and EUR 0.43; in both cases we are talking about trousers produced in China.
I would therefore like to know what decisions the Commission is going to take in this regard. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, yet another business in the south-west of France has just announced that it intends to cease production.
Commissioner, you say that we have a respite period of two and a half years, following the agreements that you have signed.
However, we must act fast, and I would suggest a number of paths worth considering: authorise the Member States to use the Structural Funds reserve to assist businesses suffering cash-flow problems, and to help them to innovate and restructure; assist businesses in creating consortiums so that they can form a true commercial force able to conquer the Chinese market; impose social and environmental criteria; require product labelling that indicates the country of origin; and, finally, as the speakers before me have already said, create true European labels. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the problems in the European textile industry were foreseeable several years ago and they would not have been an isolated example, given that similar situations exist in the production of other goods, such as footwear, automobiles, steel etc.
The workers need to draw the necessary political conclusions, given that the statistic quoted in the relevant reports is this: that 60% of Chinese exports to the rest of the world come from foreign investments in China.
That is why radical changes are needed at the level of the economy and government for fair international trade and grass-roots prosperity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the textile industry is highly wage- and labour-intensive.
I would also like to make clear, however, that there are two sides to the question we are debating today.
Europe’s two largest groups, H[amp]M and Zara, are proving tremendously popular with consumers.
The Commission can however, especially this year, provide a better and more sensible environment for it than in the past.
I call on the Commissioner to act sooner and more decisively, not to devise new programmes of subsidies but to ensure that conditions are fair. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, in the course of this debate you have received a few congratulations and many criticisms.
True, you have mentioned an unprecedented increase in volume, but this increase in import volumes was anything but unpredictable.
Fortunately, the European textile and clothing industry is a lot further ahead than the politicians, because the companies in question have been facing up to global competition for decades.
That is why more than 100&#160;000 jobs were lost in the Dutch-German border region, for example.
We must help the affected regions, not by using operating subsidies to delay structural change but by pursuing an active structural policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the textile and clothing industry in Greece is in dire straits.
The question is what integrated European policy does Europe have at its disposal to modernise and strengthen the competition of the European textile industry.
It is very difficult, Commissioner, to persuade the European citizens losing their jobs and finding themselves unemployed that the European Union has every interest in full liberalisation because it can export its goods and services to China.
The European Commission needs to formulate a new integrated strategy for the textile industry in the run-up to the crucial milestone of 2008.
It is a particularly important issue which requires an immediate response from the European Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, nothing is so susceptible to structural change as the textile industry.
We went through this painful experience in Austria a few years ago, when the textile industry in the province of Vorarlberg, where it had traditionally been based, collapsed overnight as a result of relocation to other countries – at that time to Hungary, and later to Romania, then Ukraine, now Serbia, and so on.
That would unquestionably help the European textile industry. &#160;&#160; Mr President, unlike many of the previous speakers I would like to say that the Commission has done well in the case of textiles, in this situation of conflict between industry and trade where everyone in the European Union was trying to go behind the other’s back.
That will be what remains of the textile industry in Europe.
We must focus on our own workers and also on the workers and on development in China.
Then we will be ready for the development we need in world trade. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the question at issue here is the political management of globalisation, so that we can encourage the orderly development of trade and avoid market disruption.
It is essential that the Commission does its utmost to enforce the terms of trade agreements where exporters to the EU comply with international norms on workers' rights and environmental standards.
The Chinese have the advantage of cheap labour and sometimes, by our standards, questionable labour standards.
Since the setting-up of import quotas, Chinese textile exports to the EU are allowed to grow by between 8 and 12% for the next couple of years.
The agreement that has just been reached and the unblocking of the blocked goods cannot constitute a definitive solution to the problems that have emerged.
Last July’s text in defence of intellectual property and against counterfeiting and piracy certainly made a start in defending our textile businesses and our economy in general.
The Commission is prepared to learn from the situation and to take on board all relevant concerns and criticisms.
When we deal with China, we of course take into consideration the geopolitical aspects and the important role China plays in the world.
However, in this particular case, we are giving preference to the aspects of trade policy, the interests of our textile industry and even to the possible social consequences of the situation.
Our trade policy vis-à-vis China – the memorandum of understanding and even the agreed minutes – are aimed at establishing a sustainable future for the European textile and clothing industry, which is basically competitive.
The memorandum of understanding has given our textile and clothing industry additional time to prepare for the challenges it faces.
Measures are also aimed at protecting the interests of the Maghreb states, as well as those poor developing countries which export textile and clothing products.
The work on the reform of the rules of origin and origin-marking, which is being considered by the Commission, is also intended to help the developing countries.
The agreed minutes and the monitoring will prevent similar problems, similar bottlenecks, and the Commission regularly makes the quotas public in order to inform importers.
I want to refer to the customs cooperation agreement we signed with China, which entered into force this spring and for which we have high expectations.
As far as the prospects for the European textile and clothing industry are concerned, several questioners asked whether the industry needs protection.
However, the real solution is to further strengthen the competitiveness of the European textile industry through research, innovation and investment, but certainly not at the expense of environmental protection and environmental standards.
So, we understand the situation in its full complexity.
The importance of rethinking that old trade paradigm is crucial, not just for employment in the EU, but also for the survival of many developing countries' industries as well, including some of the poorest in the developing world.
In Bangladesh restrictions on night work and overtime are being lifted.
As well as demanding a complete reassessment of the trade model, it is clear that we also urgently need to redouble our efforts to ensure that international trade is based on a platform of minimum social and environmental standards.
It is clear, unfortunately, that China's competitiveness is built, at least in part, on its exploitation of its workers and on its externalisation of social and environmental costs.
Let me give you a few facts regarding the latest strengths of our trade relations with China.
The challenge for Europe is not only to trade Airbus planes for tee-shirts, but increasingly to trade similar products within the same sector, so that European firms prosper as a result of their products' distinctiveness and quality.
The European industry is losing ground in high-technology products.
The EU position is also at risk due to the geographical orientation of its exports which are strong in countries where demand is static, but less well-positioned in rapidly growing areas such as Asia.
The EU has a strong global export profile in high-quality and high-tech products and services which now account for about half of European exports and a third of world demand.
However, continued innovation and investment in this comparative advantage is crucial.
The conclusion of a customs cooperation and mutual assistance agreement between the European Commission and China, which entered into force on 1 April 2005, is an important concrete development in this field.
The fight against counterfeit and piracy, including the protection of intellectual property rights and security of the international supply chain, are the main EU priorities for closer cooperation in the customs area.
These issues, among others, will be discussed at the first meeting of the joint customs cooperation committee on 14 November 2005.
As an advocate of high social standards the Commission believes it is in the interest of all countries to ratify key ILO conventions and other relevant international agreements.
We believe that high social and environmental standards are fundamental for sustainable development and cooperate with our trading partners to this end in all relevant instances, be they bilateral or multilateral.
The Commission has taken the initiative and launched a tender for a study and a seminar on the future opportunities and challenges of EU-China trade and investment relations, also comprising ten sectoral analyses.
I also want to mention the prospects of negotiating a new framework agreement with China, reflecting the full breadth and depth of the strategic partnership between China and the European Union.
In its opinion, the Foreign Affairs Committee focused on the issue of the arms embargo as well as the enforcement of human rights in the People’s Republic of China.
With regard to some EU Member States’ intention to lift the arms embargo with Beijing, the Foreign Affairs Committee noted that such political action would be inappropriate at this time, mainly for three reasons.
In its opinion, the Foreign Affairs Committee does not mince its words where the protection of human rights in China is concerned.
I hope, as draftsman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, that its position with regard to the Lucas report will strike a sympathetic chord with the European institutions and will be considered worth following. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have considered this matter very seriously and also very amicably in the last few weeks, and so I extend sincere thanks to the rapporteur and the other Members involved.
China is already claiming all those rights, but is failing to fulfil its obligations in many respects.
Illegal copying of technical products, counterfeit textiles and utter disregard for intellectual property are intolerable.
We must work hard to ensure that Europe remains a strong economy in the future.
We also need a serious political dialogue with China.
When discussing the condition of textiles post 2005, Commission member Louis Michel expressed his view that the cause of the decline and potential collapse of the textile sector, and, evidently, other European industrial sectors, is the inability of countries to run their economies.
In the Lucas report the consequences trade with China has on the economies of EU Member States are hardly even considered.
Secondly, China’s development and its opening up to the world is good news that we must celebrate.
Labour-intensive production is increasingly moving away from many Member States of the European Union even though we have a very high level of productivity, which is a reason why we actually could keep it.
The European Union used to earn billions from the export of textile machinery.
It is perfectly clear that we will have the same problem in these industries in two or three years’ time.
The draft Constitutional Treaty spoke of an open market economy with free competition.
I believe we need a social market economy with fair competition.
Then we would immediately have a competition that was driving things upwards because producers would be forced to bring in better social, environmental and industrial standards.
We must not delay in doing what we are always talking about.
The second greatest power in the world is not a democracy, nor does it have a market economy.
Together with the ASEAN countries, China is hoping to create a free trade area by 2010, and this would be the largest economic block in the world.
The Chinese take-over of the US giant IBM is an example of this movement, as is the current Chinese attempt to take over Rover in the UK.
As we try to establish what all this means for us, we should consider the situation in the USA, where many jobs have been lost due to the disadvantageous balance of trade with China.
In 2004 the Union had a trade deficit with China in excess of EUR&#160;78&#160;billion.
Unfair competition is possible because China has a Socialist market economy, a type of primitive capitalism that disregards human rights.
Whenever we deal with China we should keep the following question in the forefront of our minds: will there be any jobs left for our children? &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my contribution to the report by Mrs Lucas – whom I should like to thank for the excellent work that she has carried out – I wanted to emphasise a fundamental aspect of the relationship between these two large trade areas: the need to obey the rules which in the field of trade are indeed the principles of the World Trade Organisation and the agreements that derive from it, but which in the political and social context relate to respect for basic human rights.
Hence the need for monitoring through ongoing negotiations between the Commission and the Chinese authorities, in order to guarantee the principles of freedom and democracy: respect for these must be a prerequisite in the development of China’s trade relations with other economic areas.
In China the degree of freedom and democracy is in inverse proportion to the economic and commercial power that it imposes upon world markets.
We call for standards to ensure that goods originating in China conform to the security guarantees applied in Europe and that there are sanctions to prevent any trade with or within the Union for several years by those who illegally import goods or import illegal goods into Europe.
What I would suggest is that I give the floor to Mr&#160;Vanhecke, who is due to speak in his capacity as a non-attached Member, and then to do one circuit of representatives who wish to speak in a personal capacity.
I already know that the rapporteur will shortly ask plenary for the vote to be postponed, so that the vote takes place not this afternoon but during our mini-session in Brussels.
If you agree, we will finish, as regards the speakers on behalf of the groups, with the non-attached Members, then one round of speeches, in other words 12 minutes, and we will then suspend the sitting for the votes, from noon. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider it unjust that on a matter of such importance it should be the speeches of those Members who belong to groups, and not for example those of the Non-attached Members, that are always given special treatment: we are already subjected to speaking restrictions and are not allowed to vote at the meetings of heads of groups.
I am therefore in complete disagreement with the position expressed by the Presidency. &#160;&#160; I have only two options, Mrs&#160;Mussolini: either I can follow the agenda as approved by plenary and suspend the sitting in exactly one minute, or, to allow as many speakers as possible to comment, I can take one circuit of speakers which will, in any case, include non-attached Members to the same extent, no more and no less, as the other groups.
Therefore, as yours seems to be the only objection, I propose to continue by giving the floor to a non-attached Member, Mr&#160;Vanhecke. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our raising the issue of the very serious difficulties that our companies are experiencing as a result of Chinese competition, has nothing whatever to do with any fear on our part of fair competition, or with our possible criticism of the free market.
That, as well as many other unreasonable factors – forced labour springs to mind, as do inhumane working conditions – result in our markets being flooded by Chinese finished products at prices for which our own companies can sometimes hardly buy the raw materials.
I believe the mutual opening of markets should be an absolute priority for us.
We cannot have a situation where we open our markets while our firms are faced with problems over there.
I believe the future opportunities for growth on the Chinese market are of the utmost importance for our manufacturing industry in particular and that much of the plant that has been supplied there came from Europe.
European firms must of course also position themselves on that market in good time in order to safeguard jobs here at home.
Imports to Europe also increase our purchasing power.
The money they save can then be spent on other services or products, so the Chinese are actually increasing our purchasing power disproportionately.
I call on it to use its influence, especially in the talks in Hong Kong and in the TRIPS too, to ensure that these international obligations are scrupulously observed.
I believe this will strengthen our relations in future.
I believe a communist country is on the way to becoming a market economy, which will also underpin democracy and human rights.
We all ought to give this our backing. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although there is, in Europe, a great deal of fear of China, now is not the time to be passive and cautious.
Meanwhile, the European Union can, and indeed must, exploit the opportunities which prosperous economic growth in other parts of the world creates for us.
These opportunities include new consumer markets and good prospects for the tourism industry, including for the less educated.
European companies are entitled to have their intellectual property protected in law but certainly also in practice, and are also entitled to access to the Chinese markets.
Working conditions in China are abysmal; workers are not free to set up trade unions.
Commissioner Mandelson admitted that this problem was taken off the agenda at the beginning of the latest EU/China trade talks in response to pressure from China.
That is surprising, given that the European Union, in accordance with the WTO rules, is entitled to issue protectionist measures in the event of unfair competition or distortion of competition.
At the same time, it is also important, however, to draw attention to the abominable conditions in the social and environmental spheres.
It is somewhat incriminating, moreover, that we only remember about all these rules when it is what we ourselves produce that is to be protected.
We need to strengthen our position within the WTO by opening up our markets rather than by coercing the poor countries.
The rich countries need to have open markets, and we need to make demands: demands in terms of the ILO and demands that the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the other environmental conventions be observed.
In the modern world sovereign states use free trade agreements.
The really good news though is that British business is waking up to the fact that the innocuous-sounding common market was actually always intended to be far more than that, and British businesses are saying: we do not need the European Union, we would be better off making our own trade deals.
Thank you for this cock-up, because the day that Britain leaves the European Union has come much closer. &#160;&#160; – While welcoming this initiative and this report, I would also like to make a few comments, which, in my opinion, are important.
Tendencies of recent years give us grave concern and do not bode well for the future.
The trade deficit has been growing at a catastrophic rate, as has the assortment of goods from China, not to mention the transfer of manufacturing and the closure of companies in the European Union itself.
Companies in all European Union states, including Lithuania, suffer from unfair competition from Chinese companies.
On the contrary, in fact – workers toil under horrendous conditions and are practically unpaid.
We cannot ignore the widespread abuse of human rights in China, particularly with regard to a harmless but tiny minority – namely practicing Christians.
Freedom of worship is a fundamental right recognised by most of us in Europe.
This is an important report and there should be a full House here to vote on it, not just the 40 or 50 Members who might still be here at 5 p.m.
I formally move that we postpone the vote until the Brussels part-session in two weeks' time. – Mrs&#160;Lucas, I believe that you are referring to Rule 170 of the Rules of Procedure.
The vote on the report by Mrs&#160;Lucas is therefore postponed until the next part-session, on the understanding that the debate will resume at 3.00 p.m., since we must suspend it at present in order to make room for voting time. &#160;&#160; I rise on a point of order under rule 132 concerning the agenda, with reference to question time.
The same procedure applies as for the other part. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is an addendum that we had already accepted in the compromise negotiations but which has been omitted owing to an editorial oversight.
The following is appended to Part 20: 'Reaffirms its belief that the UN itself needs to considerably enhance democracy within its structures, and therefore underlines its call for a caucus of democracies within the UN General Assembly.' &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, I am asking that the second part of paragraph 10 contain the following: ‘and requests that any such future action contribute to bringing to an end discrimination based on sex or caste, wherever it takes place’. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, this consists of adding the following: ‘urges the Commission, the Member States and India to increase cooperation in the field of renewable energies’. &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; .
We support the resolution before us, which is critical of the bilateral agreement signed on 14&#160;September&#160;2005 between the EU and the USA on the wine trade.
I would also like to address the Commission: The Commission should enhance its programme to support the development of biofuels and thus revise certain strategic pillars of the CAP.
The Commission could also take a strong initiative to support solar energy and the means to permanently eliminate all kinds of energy waste … &#160;&#160; .
I wish briefly to point out that there is no paragraph calling for urgent measures to support sectors that are being seriously damaged by the rise in fuel prices.
As the fishermen have warned, the rise in fuel prices has triggered massive problems for the sector.
Let me add that fuel increases have served to exacerbate the already difficult situation of many fishermen using traditional methods, who use petrol in the course of their work and do not receive any support to offset the impact of the successive increases in the cost of this fuel.
Urgent action is therefore required, in addition to other long-term measures. &#160;&#160; .
The use of alternative energy sources is the most logical answer to increasing oil prices.
I also welcome the recognition of the international community's responsibility to protect populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity, as well as the clear responsibility of each individual state to protect their own citizens from these crimes.
Even without the strength befitting the dimensions of its foundations, the United Nations attempted to dissipate Cold War tensions, in its handling of decolonisation and in regional conflicts.
The final text adopted, which was the outcome of a laborious compromise, resembles more a catalogue of good intentions and pious hopes than an action programme.
It must be said, however, that the UN is an old lady of 60 years of age, whose organisation and way of working seem to have been set in stone from birth.
Although I support the substance of this resolution, I could not support the second part of paragraph 19 which supports a separate seat for the EU in the UN Security Council.
This would undermine those countries which already have a seat on the UN Security Council and thus is not in the British national interest. &#160;&#160; . – The resolution by the summit on 60 years of the UN bears the stamp of the new imperialist order, partially overturns the founding principles of the UN and creates preconditions for its being led by the USA and other imperialist powers.
What angered them is the truths which the President of Belarus stated in his speech to the UN summit about the positive role of the Soviet Union in the world system and the consequences of its downfall, meaning the crimes against former Yugoslavia, Afghanistan and Iraq, and about the attempts by the imperialists to turn the UN into a tool for promoting their interests.
The partnership would then become a further way of strengthening the EU’s global role, which undermines the Member States’ foreign policies.
I hope that India will reduce its tariffs on this world-class Scottish product. &#160;&#160; Bioenergy is unnecessary.
We should stop being naive and dare to invest in nuclear energy and nuclear fusion.
I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Turmes on his timely report on the Commission communication on the share of renewable energy in the EU.
More specifically, I agree that renewable energy will only increase if there is both the political will and the implementation of measures worldwide, including at EU, national, regional and local level. &#160;&#160; .
Whilst we fully support the aims of the Rapporteur in ensuring a reduction in road traffic accidents, we nevertheless feel the best way to achieve this is through an exchange of best practice between Member States rather than legislation at a European level. &#160;&#160; .One cannot but endorse the objective of reducing the number of road traffic accident victims, which is very high (43&#160;000 deaths per year in the European Union).
The report points out that, if all the Member States were to achieve the same results as the United Kingdom and Sweden, the number of fatalities would fall by 17&#160;000 a year in the European Union of 25 Member States, representing a reduction of 39%.
The report also points out that, through a campaign launched in 2002, France succeeded in reducing the number of fatalities by 30% over two years.
We are voting against this report as we think it is based on false ideas about the political level at which responsibility for road safety issues lies. &#160;&#160; .
Strong action must therefore be taken to promote road safety.
In particular I welcome the emphasis given in the report to the protection and safety of vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians and cyclists.
However, in attempting to raise standards across the EU attention should be paid to the situation in individual Member States, such as the UK, which have good working mechanisms in place: Concerted government-led campaigns have contributed to an attitude of zero-tolerance among the British public with regard to drink-driving.
Estimated figures for 2004 reveal that there were 43&#160;000 road fatalities in Europe.
A quarter of these fatalities were 15-24 years old.
Despite the divergence between these levels, the two countries have the best road safety record in the EU.
An expansion of EU influence in the road safety area would lead to unnecessary detailed regulations and more bureaucracy. &#160;&#160; That concludes the explanations of vote. &#160;&#160; The next item is the continuation of the debate on the report by Mrs Lucas, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on prospects for trade relations between the EU and China [2005/2015(INI)] (A6-0262/2005). &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe seems remote from the man in the street, but China scares people.
The particular subject of China, however, and of trade relations with China in particular, can give the European Union greater meaning and purpose.
We must be even more forceful, more outspoken and more strategic in protecting intellectual property against the Chinese, and we must do that as quickly as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, after a summer of difficult negotiations between Commissioner Mandelson and China about the global textile industry, it is time we replaced sectoral, ad hoc policy by a sound and long-term vision of trade relations between the European Union and China.
Even the world’s largest exporter has duties as well as rights. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for her excellent and informative report and I also want to add some thoughts to what was mentioned by her in her introductory part of the report.
As far as China is concerned, we have to develop a comprehensive system in the field of trading relations because if that is missing, we have to fight against the dumping of textiles today or that of shoes, cars or anything else in the future.
Therefore I strongly urge each and every institution of the European Union not to fight against China but to assist it on the road to becoming a country where norms meeting EU requirements will be implemented in everyday practice by modifying and complying with the applicable laws.
Ladies and gentlemen, as China has now started to open up to the world, if we can lend a helping hand to them politically, we will be able to shape their future in a way that meets both their expectations and our own. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the most highly populated country in the world is an economic superpower capable of affecting the course of the global economy.
Nor must we forget that China is today the second biggest trade partner of the European Union after the United States of America.
However, one of the obstacles to harmonious relations between the European Union and China is the problem of passing off; the imitation of European products and brands by Chinese industries is a serious infringement of the rules of international trade.
China needs to improve connections between its transport networks and international networks, in order to facilitate the free movement of people and goods.
It is therefore in the interest of the European Union to support the consolidation of democracy and the market economy and the development of China in a free and open country in which the rule of law will prevail. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, several fellow Members have spoken about China’s entitlement to the advantages of WTO membership and globalisation.
The free flow of goods is important, but the free flow of thoughts is equally important.
Free trade is important, but the freedom of people is just as important.
Several people have recently expressed their concern about the Hungarian Prime Minister, Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, promising that more than one billion Chinese citizens can travel to Hungary without a visa.
At the same time, I strongly appreciate that the report draws attention to the alarming situation of human rights in China, initiates the immediate elimination of child labour and hard labour and expects compliance with the fundamental social and labour norms.
In this context, it is hard to interpret the statement of the Hungarian Prime Minister that the economic and social model of China should be followed in many respects.
European Union membership means that countries share the same common values and these common values – like freedom and respect for human rights – shall govern the common foreign and security policy.
These higher interests cannot be subordinated to the momentary vagaries of politicians. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it must be very difficult for the Commissioner to come here with a brief that he may not know quite as much about as some of the speakers.
Today, we heard the Commissioner again trying to explain the inexplicable, claiming that his actions with regard to the reinstatement of the Chinese textile quotas were carried out diligently and transparently and that the difficulties arising from this nonsense of a compromise were caused by unforeseen circumstances.
His response was to claim that he had found a once-and-for-all agreement.
I just wondered what your position is on the sale of arms. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank my friend Robert for a very Sturdy speech!
China has a civilisation that is much older than most of ours and our relationship with China is a relationship of equals in which neither side really has the right to lecture the other.
China has its own way of doing things.
The recent crisis over textile imports should be a lesson to us all.
Today the EU-China relationship is in a very active and productive phase and bilateral relationships are in a more mature, healthy and stable condition than ever.
We have to develop this with diligence and sensitivity, striving always to find common ground and to minimise our inevitable differences.
We need to maximise our trading synergies and work together on the big international problems of our age, including terrorism, nuclear proliferation and the fight against hunger and disease.
None of this will be easy but there is a very relevant proverb in China: .
China is a country which plays an increasingly important role in the world economy and also in international politics.
In dealing with China, a country of enormous potential and stark contradictions, the European Union has two options.
We have to appreciate the enormous changes in China; the political, economic and scientific development, unprecedented in such a relatively short period of 20 years.
The recent summit confirmed that it is time to start negotiations on a new framework agreement.
The new framework agreement will be much broader in scope than the first one signed 20 years ago, because it should reflect the changes in China and in our relations.
Through close cooperation, through a relationship based on partnership, we can encourage China to play an active role in addressing the global challenges.
All the changes we want to promote and encourage serve the interests of the international community, the European Union and its Member States, but also serve the interests of China.
That makes me optimistic. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 13&#160;October&#160;2005. &#160;&#160; &#160;China is one of the major economic players in the world.
China does not only represent imports, but also the opportunity for investment in Europe.
Maoist rebels have engaged in violent confrontations in Nepal with the state army causing thousands of deaths.
I would now urge the government and the King to engage in political dialogue to find a peaceful solution.
I appreciate that municipal elections are planned for April and I see no legitimate reason why national elections cannot be held at the same time.
On 3 September 2005, the Maoist groups declared a ceasefire.
Nepal is among the poorest and least-developed countries in the world.
The persecution of leaders of democratic parties, the arrest of journalists during pro-democracy demonstrations and the harassment of union groups have only made the situation worse.
Within this context and in view of the ceasefire declaration by the Maoists, and following the first steps taken by the alliance between seven parties to promote a political process aimed at resolving the armed conflict, King Gyanendra must respond with a governmental ceasefire and must begin constructive talks with the political groups and with the Maoists, with the ultimate objective of re-establishing democracy in Nepal.
Furthermore, the government must release the political prisoners still behind bars and must guarantee respect for human rights and freedom of expression, particularly on the part of the Nepalese security forces and military.
The parliament had already been dissolved earlier on, and the opposition had not had a chance to act.
The European Parliament does not have competence in external policy, but there is every reason to adopt a joint political position with regard to Nepal’s internal affairs on behalf of democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the debate on Nepal is taking place at the right time, because the EU Troika will be visiting that country early next week.
There have been 2&#160;000 casualties this year alone, and 30&#160;000 people have been driven out of the Kapilvastu region by the conflict.
The security forces are also guilty of violations of children's rights.
All political prisoners must be released or tried under due process of law.
Moreover, systematic violation of human rights, a democracy deficit, non-transparent decision-making and a restricted economic structure are what unite these weak countries.
The situation is also made problematic by the fact that there are those in Nepal who are benefiting financially from the disorder there.
Since the introduction of the state of emergency, dramatic waves of arrests have taken place in Nepal, hundreds of political leaders and activists have been detained, and violence and murders have escalated.
I would therefore also like to call on the international organisations to help launch a constructive dialogue bringing together all parties to the conflict with a view to restoring the democratic political process and ensuring respect for human rights and civil liberties in Nepal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we welcome this resolution on human rights in Nepal, particularly because the Socialist International Asia-Pacific Committee in Ulan Bator recently expressed its grave concern over the deteriorating situation in that country since the February coup d'état.
We therefore call on the King to restore democracy, call fresh elections and lift the restrictions on the media; to call for a follow-up to the 2002 London International Conference; to set out the principles to underpin a peace process in Nepal and to bring together King Gyanendra, the Maoist rebel groups and the main political parties.
As was to be expected, the Royal Nepalese Army has failed to control the insurgent threat and incurred heavy losses, most notably on 7 August when the Maoists overran an army base in Kalikot.
Nevertheless, there are some positive developments as well: a Memorandum of Understanding was agreed at the UN Commission of Human Rights in April this year to launch a human rights monitoring mission and to set up four regional offices of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights in the country.
The European Commission is planning to support the mission with a contribution of EUR&#160;5&#160;million, which is 30% of the total mission budget, and the first results are encouraging.
The forthcoming EU Troika visit to Nepal, planned from 4 to 6 October, will assess the developments since the last visit in December 2004 and aim to offer public support for the moderate voices in the democratic middle ground working towards the EU's goal of a sustainable peace based on the principles of civilian, accountable and democratic government.
Working closely with the European Union Member States and especially the successive European Union Council Presidencies, the Commission remains committed to pursuing all efforts, whether they are diplomatic, political, or developmental, that might facilitate the peace process and the return to democracy in Nepal. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Such is the case with Tunisia, and I would say that, in many respects, this Association Agreement is very productive.
Be that as it may, certain events have taken place recently which my friends from my party and from the other parties undoubtedly will describe and which force us to examine this resolution.
The first thing I would request from Tunisia, therefore, without entering into the core debate on the current problem, is that it implement and put into operation as quickly as possible its ‘EU-Tunisia Human Rights’ Subcommittee, which might allow us together to deal with individual and collective cases that we encounter in this resolution, without having to engage in an urgent debate.
Article 2 of that Agreement clearly stipulates that respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights must underpin the internal and external policies of the parties and that respect is an essential element of the Agreement.
Specifically, we must call for the release of all those people arbitrarily sentenced, for example, in the Zarzis Internet users affair, as well as those people being held solely for having exercised their right to expression, association or assembly, as in the case of the lawyer, Mohammed Abbou.
In summary, we wish to urge the Council and the Commission to base their political dialogue with Tunisia on a clear defence of democracy, respect for human rights, the Rule of Law and good governance.
The imprisonment and trial of the lawyer, Mohamed Abbou, show that this meeting is being organised in a country which does not practise freedom of speech and does not permit freedom of activity on the part of journalists’ trade unions and human rights organisations, in particular the International League for Human Rights.
In our resolution we are calling for the immediate release of Maître Abbou.
Furthermore, the social status of women needs improving.
I am convinced, however, that Tunisia is now genuinely committed to long-term reform and to promoting genuine human rights, good governance and secular democracy.
The team of eminent experts in the fields of new information technologies, the media and human rights that visited Tunisia last January seems to have documented convincingly many instances where the Tunisian authorities appear guilty of violation of international law and disregard for human rights.
This will not only enhance the EU-Tunisia relationship but will strengthen democracy and the rule of law and, consequently, will substantially improve the quality of life of the Tunisian people.
Consequently, I lay great stress on the need for our representatives on the ground, the representatives of the Union and our institutions in general to exert maximum pressure to ensure that freedom of expression can become a reality in countries such as these.
In order to maintain the stability of a state unencumbered by opposition or a free press, they have taken steps to gradually curb freedom and democracy.
There is something slightly cynical about the increasing repression of the opposition media, NGOs, students and lawyers in the run up to a UN summit on the information society.
The European Commission, notably on the basis of the provisions of Article 2 of the Association Agreement, has systematically raised the importance of respecting human rights at the highest level in a bilateral context with the Tunisian authorities, including at the last meeting of the Association Council held on 31 January 2005.
The European Commission delegation in Tunis is closely monitoring the worrying situation regarding the Tunisian League for the Defence of Human Rights, the significant difficulties faced by a number of other NGOs and professional associations, as well as the independence of the judiciary.
Direct and regular contact is maintained with the different sectors of Tunisian civil society and the Tunisian authorities to overcome the current difficulties.
The Commission fully participates in the EU démarches to support human rights in Tunisia, notably the recent EU Declaration and the Troika démarche on the obstruction of the activities of the Tunisian League for the Defence of Human Rights.
The entry into force of the EU-Tunisia Neighbourhood Action Plan marked an important step forward, since it includes extensive commitments in the fields of human rights, democracy and governance.
The establishment of an institutional dialogue framework of this kind, which is expected to be in place by the end of the year, should enable human rights to be discussed in a more structured manner.
The European Parliament is just as much in favour of a positive interpretation of the rights of national minorities.
It has already been announced that this House will be conducting hearings on the political situation in Vojvodina, and I am looking forward to them.
This is a splendid initiative by our Delegation for South Eastern Europe under the inspiring leadership of Mrs Pack, who chairs it.
That way, the Serbian authorities will also find out that the European Parliament will not agree to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between Brussels and Belgrade until such time as Hungarians and other minorities in Vojvodina can live in a truly democratic, constitutional state. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about the situation of national minorities in Vojvodina here today, it is because we are concerned that the exemplary multi-ethnic coexistence in this part of Serbia could be lost.
My written enquiries to government offices in Belgrade six months after our visit produced only evasive answers.
Something needs to be done both in the educational system and about the composition of the police and judiciary, however, if the situation is to improve.
Since its transfer to Serbia in 1918, Vojvodina has become more and more Serbian, and other groups have either moved away or have been driven out.
Serb refugees from Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo have now moved into the houses of those who can no longer hold their own in Vojvodina.
Therefore there is a great discrepancy between the reports of official bodies about the continuously aggravating situation and incidents and the reports made to civil organisations by the people affected.
As far as human rights are concerned, we have learned that the manner in which the people suffering the attacks judge their situation and react to insults is more important than the manner in which these incidents are reported by the official bodies which have completely lost the trust of the minorities.
Our Parliament should send a clear message to the government in Belgrade.
I believe that it is very important that we approve this resolution in order to send a clear double message: on the one hand, to the government of Serbia so that it knows we are here and we are watching and, on the other, to the European Commission and this Parliament so that this issue can be treated as a priority and is not just studied by a handful of experts and so that we are aware that there are daily violations of human rights very close to our borders. &#160;&#160; – Serbia and Montenegro is today one of the European countries where more than 20&#160;nationalities live side by side.
The clear violations of the rights of the Hungarian minority are largely due to the activities of the influx of Serbs displaced from other parts of the former Yugoslavia.
Such a programme should be tabled and the access of Serbia and Montenegro or the access of Serbia alone to subsequent stages of integration should then be made conditional on full respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities.
This is the only strategic solution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Kohlíček has just claimed that we are not giving any money to Serbia.
A tremendous amount of money is going to Serbia.
The minorities who are oppressed there include not only Hungarians and Croats, but also, sadly, Czechs, Germans, Slovaks, Poles and many other nationalities besides, who for centuries formed that prosperous miniature Europe that Mr Meijer described so impressively just now.
We are therefore all in the same boat, so to speak, and as Europeans it is our duty to help the many minorities in that country.
Weakening Vojvodina’s reform-minded European Serbs is what these measures are actually intended to do.
Secondly, there is a deliberate policy of settling immigrants in the minorities’ communities in order to destroy those communities by quickly getting a new Radical Party mayor elected and suddenly outvoting the established population.
The intimidation, the incidents resulting in bloodshed and the staged trials of Hungarian leaders have not been stopped despite the promises of the Serbian Government.
This is our duty.
The proposal on the floor is categorical and constructive.
The Serbian nation should face its past, especially the organised genocide that took place in Vojvodina sixty years ago and had more than 40 thousand Hungarian victims.
Let me stress that this is a sign of a much wider problem.
These reforms are key for the protection of the rights, not just of minorities, but of all citizens.
This includes the need for more adequate representation of the minority communities in these institutions.
If we look at the incidents that have been reported, very often they involve youngsters.
Schools can play a key role in preserving the cultural richness of a region like Vojvodina and in helping young people take full advantage of that richness, rather than withdrawing into nationalist isolation.
There is no simple solution to this issue and we should seek to prevent people who belong to the Serbian community but are often themselves in a very precarious situation, including from a socio-economic point of view, from turning their frustration into violence.
The authorities still have much to do.
It is also important for cooperation between Serbia and Montenegro and its neighbouring countries to be intensified in the context of their bilateral agreements.
We appreciate the initiative of holding a European Parliament hearing on the situation of the minorities in Vojvodina on 13 October.
For its part, the Commission is continuing to monitor respect for the rights of the various ethnic communities in Vojvodina, as well as in the rest of Serbia and Montenegro.
At the same time, the Commission drew the authorities' attention to a number of issues, including respect for human and minority rights.
Respect for these rights is indeed an integral part of the political criteria for the stabilisation and association process and it is an essential element of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
The way a country treats ethnic minorities and the quality of the relationship among them are important indicators of democratic maturity.
The progress report on Serbia and Montenegro due to be published next month by the Commission will also review respect for human and minority rights.
Let me mention just a few examples.
A contribution of EUR 40 million was made to the reconstruction of the Sloboda Bridge, which will be opened in October.
I am confident that strengthening the relations between the EU and Serbia and Montenegro, through the conclusion of the Stability and Association Agreement, will help consolidate democracy and the rule of law, which will also be to the benefit of the ethnic minorities.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions on violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the original English text was never translated.
That is why I would like to amend orally the first two lines of recital E.
The text should read as follows: 'whereas no real progress has been made in reversing the deterioration in the conditions for national and ethnic minorities in Vojvodina, thereby jeopardising their future in the region, or in facilitating their participation', and then continue according to the original text.
This was the request of the lawyer-linguists, in order to clarify our intention.
That is why I ask my colleagues and you to vote for this oral amendment. &#160;&#160; Are there any objections to the oral amendment? &#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
