Human rights in Vietnam The next item is the debate on the six draft resolutions on human rights in Vietnam.
I see that there has been rapid economic development in the country, in the last 10 years especially.
Our group's resolution calls for the release of Buddhist leaders Thich Huyen Quang and Thich Quang Don from what we consider to be groundless imprisonment.
Although it seems that 2006 was a year of political openness, one that made flexibility possible, it appears that freedom of worship is among the problems being reported to us by the NGOs.
Despite the situation, I should also like to point out - perhaps going against what my fellow Member, Mrs Korhola, just said - that efforts have, all the same, been made in Vietnam.
This country has already made certain efforts, of which we have taken note, not least when we went there in 2006 with the ASEAN delegation.
of behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Mr President, in March of this year, fifteen Vietnamese dissidents were sentenced to long terms in prison and house arrest.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, after Vietnam's temporary suspension in 2006 of its policy of repression and restriction of political and civil rights, we are once again witnessing a wave of arrests involving citizens who are considered 'inconvenient' by the authorities.
In view of the fact that the European Union is Vietnam's biggest trading partner, and the aid we offer to this country will amount to 304 million euros between 2007 and 2013, we should consider revising the cooperation treaty which we have already signed, as only economic sanctions can force Vietnam to implement political and institutional reforms which will lead to democracy and a state based on the rule of law.
The climate has also improved for political dissidents in the past two years.
This includes some well-known persons such as Father Nguyen Van Ly, and lawyers Nguyen Van Dai and Le Thi Cong Nhan.
The EU's relations with Vietnam have developed dynamically in recent years, and the Commission has taken every opportunity to press for continued improvement in the human rights situation, especially as regards prisoners of concern.
The Commission and EU Member States' representatives in Hanoi have in particular followed the recent arrests and trials of activists with particular attention.
In its declaration of 15 May, it reiterated its plea to the Government of Vietnam to release all non-violent political activists exercising their rights to freedom of expression and association.
The recent trials were also raised forcefully by Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner in her bilateral meeting with Vietnamese Deputy Prime Minister Khiem on 28 May 2007, on the margins of the ASEM ministerial meeting in Hamburg.
A key instrument in this regard is the regular human rights dialogue between the EU missions in Hanoi and the Government of Vietnam.
