The Millennium Development - Goal 5: maternal health (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the Millennium Development Goal 5: maternal health.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like the European Parliament, the Council attaches great importance to achieving all the Millennium Development Goals throughout the world by 2015 and particularly the one that aims to reduce the maternal mortality rate by three quarters between 1990 and 2015.
I can tell you that the financing gap is today estimated at more than EUR 13 billion by the World Health Organisation.
If - and the Commissioner will tell us if this is the case - the European Commission believes that, to bridge the financing gap, we need to increase EU support by EUR 8 billion by 2010, of which EUR 6 billion would be destined for Africa, it is essential that both partner countries and donors are stakeholders in dealing with the challenges facing us.
Several concrete actions are planned, which I will list: the Presidency and the Commission are preparing a joint paper on covering health risks; development ministers are going to meet during the informal meeting, which will take place on 29 and 30 September, regarding the conclusions of the November Council meeting and the forthcoming presidencies for universal access to healthcare; and finally, the Council will examine the Commission report on the EU programme for action to tackle the critical shortage of health workers in developing countries - and I have made a note of how crucial this task is.
The European Union is very committed to the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), including MDG 5 on maternal health, which is the subject we are discussing today.
Therefore, improving maternal health and reducing maternal mortality have been key concerns of the European Commission's work in health and development.
However, despite our efforts and the MDG targets, MDG 5 is possibly the goal which is most off-track globally - especially, as has already been said, in Africa.
However, we know that what is being done in support of maternal health at the moment is not sufficient and that more efforts are needed to change the present situation.
This is why on 24 June 2008 the Council of the European Union adopted the EU Agenda for Action on MDGs, whereby the Commission and the Member States commit themselves to increase their support to health by the additional EUR 8 billion which has been mentioned, and EUR 6 billion in Africa, by 2010.
Regarding MDG 5, the Agenda for Action on MDGs mentioned two important targets by 2010: firstly, 21 million more births attended by skilled health workers and, secondly, 50 million more women to have access to modern contraceptives in Africa.
The importance of Millennium Development Goal 5 is all the greater in as much as its successful implementation does not cost very much in monetary terms.
Despite this, in some regions the achievement dynamics of Goal 5 have been poor or very poor.
This is a very worrying phenomenon, as it means that implementation of Millennium Development Goal 5 on a global scale is seriously threatened.
These are areas on which we can jointly concentrate, and thus facilitate the achievement of Millennium Goal 5.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner - to whom I would like to wish a happy birthday today - I am not going to refer to the text I was planning to read to you here on behalf of my group because I believe we are in the midst of a particularly important discussion.
As we all know, the majority of these women live in sub-Saharan Africa, where there is one death every minute.
As we have said, the same risk for women living in the developed world is one in 3 700.
In Europe, fewer than 1 in 3 800 women die from pregnancy-related causes, but the figure is very much higher in some African countries: 1 in 16.
The figure of 1 in 7 has been mentioned for Niger.
According to recent research, approximately 200 million women in developing countries would very much like to bear fewer children, but half of these have no access to contraceptives and sexual information.
According to Kofi Annan, the fight against hunger and poverty is doomed to failure from the outset if the international community does not succeed in strengthening women's rights.
We do want this, but are actually shirking our real responsibility.
Of those deaths 99% occur in developing countries.
In Africa one in 16 women dies during pregnancy or childbirth.
In fact, 97% of all unsafe abortions are carried out in developing countries.
In developing countries, particularly in rural areas, women urgently need universal access to general health care, medical assistance and advice on pregnancy and childbirth.
The improvement in reproductive health and the abolition of any kind of discrimination against women are key and extremely important preconditions for achieving the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
Progress has been made in several poor countries, for example in Egypt and Bangladesh.
Global issues should be addressed at global level, in the UN, where all the EU countries are members.
In Africa, there is a lack of qualified professionals and doctors, and AIDS is still a cause of maternal death.
Mr President, there has been no advancement on Millennium Development Goal (MDG) 5 on improving maternal health since 2000, particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, and before 2000 progress was practically non-existent.
In September 2000, world leaders adopted the United Nations Millennium Declaration, committing their countries to reducing extreme poverty by 2015 through the objectives of the MDGs.
More than half a million women die in pregnancy or childbirth every year, which is one death every minute.
Of those deaths, 99% are in developing countries.
In the least developed countries, only 28 in 100 women giving birth are attended by trained personnel.
The objective of MDG 5 is to reduce the ratio of women dying in childbirth by three quarters between 1990 and 2015.
I call on the Council and Commission, ahead of the United Nations High-Level meeting on the MDGs in New York this September, to prioritise action to meet the MDG targets and to fulfil MDG 5 in particular.
As we focus on sexual reproductive health rights, we hear from the other side that they have problems with the vocabulary used in this resolution.
These semantics would not go down very well, I fear, with the thousands upon thousands of grieving motherless children in the developing world, or with those children whose mothers have died in agony because there was no anaesthetic, or with a mother bleeding to death because there is no thread for stitches, or a mother dying because there is not the three cents to buy the magnesium sulphate that would save her from death through haemorrhaging.
Those lives are precious and no woman should die giving life.
That is absolute nonsense.
Mr President, the condemnation of the use of contraceptives and the prevention of legal abortion has been one of the most malicious crimes committed against humanity, as some contraceptives also provide protection against sexually-transmitted diseases such as HIV.
In order to improve maternal health in developing countries, the European Union must condemn the US global gag rule, as well as the ban on the use of contraceptives advocated by some churches. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are absolutely duty-bound to act so that women can realise their maternal function in optimum health conditions.
Therefore, the hope expressed in this sense by the motion for a resolution that we have been discussing deserves our support.
I would just like to ask my fellow Members to give a moment's consideration to these points. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office, I should like to thank the Commissioner most warmly for her very strong statement.
This is a disgrace, as maternal mortality is entirely preventable if women are just given access to health care and sexual and reproductive health.
According to the World Health Organization, the cost of providing basic health care is EUR 34 per person per year.
This is achievable - if, on top of the pledges of the developing countries themselves, the European Union were to spend 15% of development aid on health care, including sexual and reproductive health.
It is clearly time, therefore, that the Council's words and the Commission's promises were turned into clear projects, for example to link budget support to clear results with regard to Millennium Development Goal 5 and to saving women's lives in Africa. (NL) Mr President, I shall be frank: I find it hard to give a coherent speech here after hearing what was said by the gentlemen on that side of the House.
There is pain, suffering and death involved in this issue we are debating here.
Mr President, I am pleased that this Parliament is holding a debate on MDG 5 because, as I speak, at this very moment a woman is losing a life to give a life somewhere in the world.
We also need to make up for lost time, as thousands and thousands of women die in developing countries every year because of lack of information and lack of access to sexual and reproductive health.
However, it is important that abortion is legal and safe, as well as exceptional, as this is the only way to combat illegal abortion.
All women on all continents have a right to access to sexual and reproductive health.
Without the right to sexual and reproductive health, there is no gender equality.
This is a key political goal for the development of all these countries. (BG) I congratulate you on your opinion, Commissioner.
This is a problem which exists in many countries, including in European Union countries, and one that has to be resolved. (LT) The European Parliament has begun discussions on the Commission's incentive to attract highly qualified specialists from third countries to the EU labour market - the so-called Blue Card.
Mr President, I intervene in this debate first of all to thank the Council for its June action plan, but more particularly to welcome the very forthright statement by Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner.
Since I have mentioned our national position, although I am here to represent the Council, I should say that all the Member States are welcome to be associated with this resolution within the United Nations framework.
Finally, in December 2008 there will be a forum for non-governmental organisations on the situation of women.
As regards maternal health and everything you have said, I can only share the commitment and indignation of those who have spoken, particularly as regards the links with the HIV virus, and say that the EU is going to finance the Global Fund to fight AIDS to the tune of EUR 91 million in 2007, as the leading donor to this fund for that year.
As regards the comments made by Mrs Kinnock who, as a committed European, can surely not be confusing the Council Presidency with a nation state - or else she is not who I think she is - I would like to say that as regards the European Union's budgetary commitments, the amounts given by France are going to increase in 2008.
To be precise, the amount allocated to health grew between 2006 and 2008, from EUR 820 million to EUR 930 million.
On a more personal note, having heard your debate, I must say that the Presidency will be looking very carefully at the proposal made by Mrs Buitenweg, which she has submitted to me.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, we have heard some very important statements.
As Mrs Buitenweg said, it is a luxury in our countries, but the luxury is not there in other countries.
It is true that much money has gone, for instance, into combating HIV/AIDS in recent years, but unfortunately ever more women are becoming HIV/AIDS-infected in Africa: one out of four girls aged between 16 and 24 are now HIV positive.
Written statements (Rule 142) The EU has committed to achieving the Millennium Development Goals, such as reducing the maternal mortality rate by 75% by 2015.
The European Commission's initiatives to allocate funds for the health systems reform in order to improve the quality of prenatal and postnatal services, as well as of the access to such services, the support of research in the field of reproductive medicine and the training of medical personnel were opportune for achieving goal No. 5.
The Charter on enhancing the performance of health systems, adopted in Tallinn, in June 2008, is also important progress.
Nevertheless, there are developed countries, such as France, Great Britain or the Netherlands, with a very low mortality rate, for which the 75% reduction by 2015 seems difficult, since evolution is slower than in the countries with a higher maternal mortality rate.
in writing. - (RO) The European Union is a firm supporter of the Millennium Development Goals adopted by the United Nations and which established the targets to be achieved by 2015 as regards peace, security, development, governance and human rights.
The targets for Romania, as regards the improvement of maternal health, are the reduction of mortality rate to 10 maternal deaths/100,000 births by 2015 and ensuring universal access to health services.
