Applicable law in matrimonial matters - Amendment of regulation as regards jurisdiction and introducing rules concerning applicable law in matrimonial matters (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mrs Gebhardt, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 as regards jurisdiction and introducing rules concerning applicable law in matrimonial matters - C6-0305/2006 - and the oral question by Mrs Gebhardt and Mr Deprez, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, to the Commission, on the Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 as regards jurisdiction and introducing rules concerning applicable law in matrimonial matters - B6-0477/2008).
I am pleased that the European Commission has tackled the subject, therefore, and I should like to reiterate straight away that there is to be no harmonisation of the law in this matter - indeed this is not permitted, and it is stated quite clearly in the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community that the law in such matters is the domain of Member States.
There is the Netherlands, where homosexual marriage is permitted, and Poland, where such a thing would be inconceivable.
We have done good work in the European Parliament and enjoyed constructive cooperation on this with the European Commission and also the Council.
The Council is key - it has to decide unanimously what will be done in this field in future.
It is also important that we prevent the application of law from somewhere or other that is unacceptable in accordance with the principles of the European Union - for example Sharia law, Chinese law or whatever.
In this regard, too, we have come up with clear wording - particularly in Amendments 25 and 30, which I have attempted to reinforce with my Amendment 36 - namely stating that the respective law must be in keeping with the basic principles of the European Union or it cannot be applied.
We cannot accept this.
The Council has a major problem: it has to take a unanimous decision, and there is currently one Member State that is quite simply standing in the way of this unanimity.
That is why our committee tabled this oral question to the Council and the European Commission.
The first question to the European Commission - I am pleased that you are here to reply, Mr Barrot - is as follows: do you intend to withdraw your proposal?
The second is: do you intend to submit a proposal to the Council to establish an enhanced cooperation procedure according to Article 11 of the EC Treaty and in compliance with Articles 43 and 45 of the Treaty?
I am glad to see that Mr Deprez is also here.
I should just like, Madam President, to go over some of the data we have available: there are currently 2 200 000 weddings each year in the European Union, 350 000 of which are international marriages.
This is an important issue, because the Member States will want to continue to apply the divorce laws of third countries that share our democratic values: for example, if a German or French woman marries a Swiss man, it seems reasonable that it should also be possible to apply the rules we have set for ourselves to this marriage, or to this divorce.
Last July, we had a debate between the justice ministers on the possibility of enhanced cooperation on Rome III and, at the end of July, nine Member States presented the Commission with a request for enhanced cooperation: that is more than a third of the Member States involved in the adoption of Rome III.
The request for enhanced cooperation does, of course, raise certain questions, in both legal and political respects.
Before I make a statement, I should of course like to hear the views of the Members of Parliament, and I certainly want the Member States to clarify their position.
At any rate, I should like to assure the European Parliament that it is my intention - and not just my intention but also my desire - to move forwards with judicial cooperation on civil matters in Europe.
I would also add that we are simultaneously drafting a law applicable to matrimonial systems that could be adopted in early 2010.
To the law of one of the 27 states of the European Union, or to the law of any country in the world?
I believe that if we really want legal certainty - my objection is a technical one - if we really want to introduce 'shopping around' with regard to the choice of applicable law, if we really want to abide by the weakest code of law - because let us not forget that to choose a law you need consensus and that consensus can also be subject to considerable pressure - if we really want to construct a European legal area then, in my opinion, it is a good thing for all of these amendments that the choice of law be limited to the laws of the 27 states of the European Union.
I do not believe that there is an easy way of choosing the applicable law in relation to divorce, but we could be clearer in terms of public policy and human rights in order to give the courts the powers of discretion to reject laws which are not in keeping with European customs, human rights and public policy.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (SV) Madam President, I want to begin by thanking Mrs Gebhardt for the constructive work she has done and to say how sorry I am that it was not possible to come to the same view as Sweden and myself.
As a result, I was unable to vote in favour of the report either in committee or in plenary.
These issues should therefore be resolved at national level in the future too.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Madam President, before I address the matter in hand, I should like to propose that, in future, we ask each Council presidency to bring a wax doll or a blow-up doll to this Chamber, since the Council itself is always absent from debates of this kind and I do like to address somebody.
I should like to say to my very esteemed Swedish fellow MEPs that I have the feeling that there is a huge misunderstanding.
Indeed, I welcome the fact that, in the 21st century, people can make individual decisions about their own lives - and divorce may be part and parcel of this.
Finally, I can only express the hope, should closer cooperation be achieved against all odds, that all 26 Member States that had reached agreement, including mine, would conform.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Madam President, according to a study by the Commission that was published this week, long-distance commuters often suffer with headaches, sleep deprivation and poor relationships, and it follows that in all these international environments, including ours, there is probably a very high divorce rate.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, international private law pertains to two questions.
Some 100 000 such couples have registered since 1990.
Last year, the European Parliament hosted several Polish people who have lost contact with their children as a result of rulings by the German authorities responsible for children and young people.
Most importantly, we would not have to allow children to be separated from one of their parents. (PT) Madam President, Mr Barrot, in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs I witnessed the work carried out on this report by Mrs Gebhardt and also my colleague, Mr Demetriou.
I must say that, in my opinion, anything which reduces unnecessary conflict not only ensures more justice for the people, but also, in particular, creates more confidence between those involved in the legal process.
I know of a number of such cases and I hope that this common directive will also contribute to an improvement in the situation in individual Member States. (RO) In the case of the former Communist countries, one way for girls from this region to escape from the state of oppression they were subjected to was to get married, sometimes actually for love, but in most cases for gain.
However, for all that, there are nine Member States that are asking for enhanced cooperation.
The choice of jurisdiction should be made on the basis of access by both members of the couple to comprehensive information on the most important aspects of national and Community law.
Consequently, the choice of the law of a particular country must be a choice between the law of the state in which the marriage took place, or the law of the state in which the spouses have had their habitual residence for the last three years or the law of the country of origin.
One example could be the case of women from third countries where divorce is not recognised, but who are resident in the EU and apply for divorce or separation.
