I know very well, both from my group and from other political groups, that they are still discussing various issues relating to the vote, how it is organised, and so on.
In that case, we too on our side of the House could support this if you regard it as feasible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I must draw the attention of this House to the fact that this is a major codecision text in second reading, for which we require a qualified majority to pass amendments.
I am therefore in favour of moving the vote to Wednesday.
This compromise could then be the starting shot for all groups and rapporteurs to join together in guiding this report through the process. &#160;&#160; I get the impression that perhaps the groups would agree to having the vote on Wednesday. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we have the same problem with the Lisi report concerning the conciliation on compensation and assistance to air passengers.
In addition to the personal honour, of which I am very conscious, it is a wonderful tribute to the role of the European Parliament in an election year and I would be happy to receive the award in that context on behalf of this House and the contribution it makes to European Union affairs. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to reply to the comments that have been made in previous months at this point on the agenda by Members of the GUE/NGL Group criticising the situation in Latvia, and in particular the position of Russian speakers.
In this House I am sure we welcome all the new Member States into the European Union.
Som Ràdio was the sole broadcaster using the Catalan language, which is the official language in Majorca, Minorca and Ibiza.
As you can see, the Spanish Government does not only ban the European Constitution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am sure that a number of Members like me will be alarmed at suggestions that France is considering a ban on Muslim girls wearing headscarves in its state schools.
In my part of London - Brent, Harrow, Hounslow, Ealing, I could go on - we found that the opposite policy of respect for peoples' differences, respect for their different religions, respect for different practices and heritage, is a much better way of incorporating minorities into societies.
I hope through you, Mr President, and through our French colleagues here, we can send this message back to President Chirac and the French authorities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on the last occasion we met I raised a question about the Scotch whisky industry which was of considerable public concern.
The attention that this House and other public bodies paid to this matter was instrumental in reaching a solution, so I thank you and encourage you all to celebrate the New Year of 2004 with an appropriate beverage! &#160;&#160; Especially if you are sponsoring it, Mr MacCormick. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the capture of Saddam Hussein in Iraq is to be very much welcomed.
This despite the fact that the European Union has donated EUR 40 million of EU taxpayers' money this year, and that this week we will be voting for a further EUR 500 million.
We cannot accept this resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at a time when the World Trade Organization is meeting in Geneva, I wish to draw attention to the need to revise current policies for liberalising trade, in order to promote fair and equitable trading systems that are geared towards genuinely enabling each country to develop its true potential, towards solving the problems of poverty, towards promoting better living conditions, without imposing relationships of dominance and dependence.
On the very day that this meeting is taking place in Geneva, the Commission must take account of these concerns. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wanted, all the same, to respond to our fellow Member who took the liberty of addressing Parliament on an issue which is only an issue for French internal policy.
It is good to draw attention to this rule, especially at a time when Europe in general, and Parliament in particular, is criticised for meddling in everything. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, France is, as everyone knows, a secular state.
This is unacceptable for French people, but also for every man and woman that advocates humanism.
The issue of the Islamic headscarf is a complex one and we hope that some of our fellow Members will not compound this complexity with their certitudes.
Let us welcome that move and congratulate them on their achievement. &#160;&#160; We will all have the opportunity tomorrow morning, with the Italian Presidency, to bring our collective wisdom to bear on those issues. &#160;&#160; Mr President, while General Wesley Clark a certified, as yet unindicted war criminal testified at the so-called International Criminal Tribunal for Yugoslavia in absolute secrecy, the Deputy Registrar of the same 'Tribunal' has issued a decision banning practically all contact between the former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic and the outside world.
Both are candidates on the list of the Socialist Party of Serbia for the elections on 28 December.
I will wait until 16 December to see if that is true.
As a result you can explain to your colleague, who will be excluded from speaking in this item, why that is so. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Julio Medem's film is a bid to start dialogue using the metaphor of the Basque national game.
It has been highly acclaimed by the Basque people, but has been condemned by the Spanish Government and by ¡Basta Ya!, the Sakharov Prize winner in this Parliament two years ago.
Last week the Spanish Government announced a change in the criminal code, making authorities that consult their citizens through referenda liable to prison sentences.
Mr Gorostiaga, your approach is totally out of line with what we in this House defend: freedom of expression, which you do not defend in any of your considerations and even less in your speech this afternoon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0387/2003) from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the Council common position adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on setting standards of quality and safety for the donation, procurement, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells (10133/3/2003 – C5-0416/2003 – 2002/0128(COD)) (Rapporteur: Peter Liese). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is at issue here is the transplantation of cells and tissues, a fast-growing branch of medicine.
As is made clear in one of the recitals, industry has an important part to play in this.
Since that occasion in April 2003 there has been a considerable amount of effort, discussion and negotiation on the part of Parliament and the Council in order to arrive at the compromise before you today.
Let me specifically express my appreciation to the rapporteur and to the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy for all their hard work on this important proposal.
The compromise package will ensure that the increasing number of patients in Europe who are treated with human tissues and cells can trust that these substances are not only safe but also of good quality.
It constitutes another step forward in the regulatory framework on substances of human origin under Article 152 that we initiated a couple of years ago with the blood directive.
In my view, the main concerns of the European Parliament have been successfully addressed in the compromise – and that is very much down to your rapporteur.
The Commission is willing to accept the compromise position that strikes a balance between Parliament’s wish to 'ensure' voluntary and unpaid donations, and the current proposal, which 'encourages' such donations.
The Council of Europe and the European Group on Ethics have stressed the principle of not-for-profit procurement of tissues and cells.
This point has been clarified in the compromise package.
The common position introduces the possibility for Member States to maintain or adopt different legislation in exceptional circumstances, such as the right of a child to know the genetic parents in case of the donation of gametes.
I can accept further clarification of the rights of Member States to make exceptions.
The Commission believes that before considering any proposal it is necessary to conduct a thorough scientific evaluation of the situation regarding organ transplantation.
Discussions on the 70 amendments would be very complicated, and I very much doubt whether we would arrive at a better solution than that offered by this compromise package. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I advocate here the position adopted by Parliament at first reading.
We wanted to safeguard the voluntary and unpaid donation of cells and tissues and ban the trade in unmodified cells and tissues, while at the same time protecting industrial activity in this area.
Ethical issues cannot be passed over, because that in itself is an ethical choice.
The legal basis of the Directive is Article 152 of the Treaty on European Union, which deals with health matters, but all the ‘ethical issues’ addressed by Parliament are also linked to protecting the health of donors and recipients.
Any donation made in dubious circumstances, for example in response to financial pressure, is also a danger for the recipient of cells and tissues.
This view is also widely shared within the Council. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is an important report and it must be approved and brought into law across Europe as quickly as possible.
To move on now to the controversial issue of voluntary and unpaid donation, the liberal group is satisfied with the compromise that was reached, a better compromise than the one reached for directive 100.
The text specifies that the donation must be made of the donor’s free will without payment, with the exception of possible compensation, for which detailed rules are to be laid down by Member States on the basis of subsidiarity.
To conclude, Mr&#160;President, I welcome the fact that, as regards this issue, which, as we can see, is complex and sensitive, the European law that we are in the process of drawing up in this House establishes first and foremost general principles and rules, which must be flexible and progressive in the interests of putting patients first.
This is the only message that Europe should send out to the hundreds of thousands of patients waiting for heart valve transplants, corneas, bone cells, donated sperm and oocyte, or simply for reparatory transplants for severe burns. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, in April 2003, when there was the debate at first reading of the Liese report, I spoke then on behalf of my group on this important issue.
The first principle was that the draft directive had a scope that should not, above all, be extended, in particular so as not to reopen the debate on embryonic stem cell research, or even on voluntary abortion.
I was therefore getting ready, this evening, for a new attack on behalf of a large majority of our fellow citizens, on behalf of many researchers, on behalf of public health and, above all, on behalf of the patients who are waiting for treatments and for transplants.
Some amendments, which were, moreover, adopted in the committee, seemed to me in fact to be inappropriate, even dangerous.
I particularly welcome the removal of two amendments: 35, which related to abortion, and 38, which did not distinguish between therapeutic cloning and reproductive cloning.
As a result, on behalf of my group, I can support the 21 compromise amendments with the Council, accompanied moreover, by some assessments of their legality, which I heard from Commissioner&#160;Byrne, and I am glad that common sense largely prevailed.
Tomorrow we will vote on a compromise package of 21 amendments.
The Council gave scant regard to over 50 amendments adopted by this House in the first reading.
The final deal before us this week is far more reflective of the reality of the Council and Parliament being equal legislators in this area.
I am also very pleased with the new wording in relation to the protection of the anonymity of the donor.
Regarding the issue of cloning, I would have been happier with the original Amendment No 38, but there are sufficient safeguards included in this compromise.
I believe this to be a serious violation of human dignity and the right to life as enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
This Parliament has repeatedly voiced its opposition to human cloning and is committed to a universal ban on human cloning.
In conclusion, my Group supports the compromise and tabled the full set of amendments involved.
This is an important directive that will, I am sure, be a vital contribution to public health in the European Union by ensuring a high quality of tissues and cells for transplantation, while at the same time respecting fundamental ethical considerations. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is unfortunate that nearly all of Parliament’s amendments have been dropped from the common position adopting the directive on setting standards of quality and safety for the donation, procurement, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells.
This is why we have supported the re-submission of these amendments at second reading.
The compromise on unpaid donations causes us a dilemma.
Amendment No 31, which clearly states that Member States shall ensure voluntary and unpaid donations, is being traded for a text which states that Member States shall take the necessary measures to encourage voluntary and unpaid donations.
Paid or involuntary donations within the European Union should be rejected unequivocally.
The statement that Commissioner Byrne made a moment ago about a directive for organ transplantation only partly meets this House’s wishes as expressed at first reading.
He states: 'Rightly or wrongly, each day I listen to the TV or radio hoping to hear that a cure for Parkinson's Disease is on the way.
The demand for tissues and cells in Europe is far greater than the supply; thus the imports necessarily being made from third countries must respect the same legislative framework, because this is the only way to prevent the illegal trade.
The human body, as has been emphasised on numerous occasions, is inviolable and inalienable and must not therefore be turned into a source of financial gain.
The compromise reached during negotiations satisfactorily covers the above principles.
I should like to mention that, even if the package of compromise amendments does not include other important points approved by the relevant committee of the European Union, I shall ultimately agree, considering that the priority is to get the present directive applied as quickly as possible.
The quality and safety of organs is a major concern of the European Parliament.
The Commission statement on organs proposed as part of this compromise is a real commitment to continue work in this area and to find the best approach to the current situation, which is characterised by a shortage of organs.
In conclusion, I am very pleased to be able to accept the compromise package on the table today.
That proposal was aimed primarily at meeting the Parliament's criticism that the earlier proposal had not gone far enough in establishing a level playing field.
I can only repeat here what I already said in the Council.
Article 11 makes it possible for an offeror who has acquired 75% of the capital to break through certain defensive mechanisms set up by the offeree company.
Moreover, it goes back on the level of harmonisation that we agreed last time, before Parliament objected to the first proposal on the grounds that it did not go far enough in establishing a level playing field.
I have some difficulties as well with Amendment No 4 and Amendment No 20, last paragraph, concerning 'special rights'.
We have been given an objective to aim at, but, according to this proposal, it will ultimately be the markets that decide whether or not what is proposed is right, and in which direction things will change.
The Italian Presidency of the Council has offered us the possibility of completing this procedure in one reading, and, as we are in any case approaching the end of this Parliament, I believe that we should make use of this opportunity.
It is with reference to them that I wish to make it clear that this compromise already includes workers’ rights; it is explicitly laid down in the compromise reached on Article 9, that the workers’ representatives have to be informed and that they can make a statement, which, together with the board’s statement, must be made available to the shareholders and to the public.
By way of a compromise, Article 13 ensures that all existing rights of workers to participation and co-determination – be they put in place by the nation states or by Europe – are retained and remain unaffected by this directive.
There is something positively paradoxical about a situation in which it is the Socialist governments in the Council that want to prevent workers gaining more rights – the examples I would give are the Swedes and the British Labour Government – while, here in this House, the Left, led by the Socialists, who are willing to let these directives and this proposal fail, even though their own governments, at Council level, are blocking these compromises that go even further.
If we approve this directive, this compromise, we will be demonstrating the European Union’s capacity to act in difficult times.
The provisions in this text to protect minority shareholders are important and will encourage more cross-border portfolio share ownership.
By ensuring that there is a threshold in each Member State at which someone taking control of a company has to launch a full bid for the other shares, this directive stops creeping control of a company.
It therefore means that a new shareholder with perhaps only 30% of the stock cannot decide, without providing an exit for all the other shareholders, to pay themselves special dividends or to sell off assets cheaply to another private company that they happen to control.
For those who would like to see more radical opening-up of cross-border mergers, there is also the promise of a clearer view in the next Parliament and the prospect that the markets themselves can add to the pressures on companies to apply best practice in consulting their shareholders.
In reality, that form of words in their amendments merely echoes what is already in the information and consultation directive.
It provides employees with nothing new, but potential differences in the legal text between this draft directive if it is voted and that one could mean a risk of litigation over takeovers if it is voted through.
For that reason, we should vote against these amendments and support what is, I agree, a flawed and partial compromise, but, nevertheless, one which makes some progress. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, a year ago, in the spirit of Christmas, I prepared an opinion for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs which was adopted in February 2003.
The Commission refers only to national Member States' practices and the Employment Committee's opinion explicitly makes information and consultation a mandatory part of takeover bid procedure, both for the companies making the bids – Article 6 – and the target companies – in Article 9.
The PSE Group is still of that opinion, and over the last month I have prepared a text which is adapted to the situations in different Member States.
We also adapted the text to bring it into line with the provisions of the directive on the information and consultation of workers.
My Group wishes to stress that this should be a normal part of the procedure.
Our Group is ready to support the compromise, although we are not very enthusiastic about it.
Our original position was to make a directive without Articles 9 and 11 protecting minority shareholders' rights.
Nevertheless, the opinion that we put forward reflected the concerns of a majority of our members and those concerns were particularly directed at the need for, and importance of, employee information and consultation.
The second area of concern to us, where we were in line with a number of other committees, is the issue of jurisdiction.
Those were the three points that our committee was concerned about. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Klaus-Heiner Lehne: the affair of the takeover bids directive really does seem to be never-ending.
This proposal, in addition to preserving the passivity rule in Article 9, sought to achieve the objectives set by the European Parliament and the wise men consulted, the neutralisation of some pre-bid defensive measures and proportionality between risk capital and voting rights, while I am afraid the very points that we might call most dangerous such as large corporations and multiple voting rights were excluded.
Another obstacle course has started, with regard to which we thought that the intuition of the Council Presidency in June 2002 provided a way out: giving the Member States and quoted companies respectively the possibility of choosing between the directive’s model with the passivity rule and the neutralisation of defensive measures&#160;-&#160;type A companies&#160;-&#160;or preservation of defensive measures&#160;-&#160;type B companies&#160;-&#160;all supplemented by a requirement of maximum transparency in a system to which a company is subject.
Moreover, the maximum transparency of company systemsand internal rules required by both Article 10 of the proposal for a directive and the parallel proposal for a directive on the transparency of quoted companies&#160;-&#160;which is also currently being debated in Parliament and the Council&#160;-&#160;ensures that companies which fully accept Articles 9 and 11, the stars, are the true European companies and clearly identifiable as such.
In this way, it is made possible for the market to reward them.
I am therefore going to focus exclusively on two aspects of the first occasion on which – as all the honourable Members will remember – during this legislature, Parliament did not approve the text of the Conciliation Committee, which was basically in line with the text of the common position.
The second aspect – which has been mentioned by my colleague, Mrs van den Burg – relates to the chapter on information and consultation for workers.
The current proposal leaves a great deal of scope for Member States and companies themselves, such as a company's optional, or even temporary, permission to take defensive mechanisms when it is faced with what it views as a hostile takeover bid.
In a way, the employees are perhaps interested parties to an even greater degree than the shareholders, because hostile takeover bids are almost always combined with plans for restructuring and, perhaps, cut-backs.
In other contexts, we talk solemnly about the social dialogue in the European employment strategy as progress in EU policy.
We talk about the Lisbon strategy in which the two sides of industry and the social dialogue are also important.
There should also be a guarantee against at least short-term dismissal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, you will no doubt recall as vividly as I do the late nights in Luxembourg in June 2001 when we last went through this exercise, followed by the heated third-reading debate in this House shortly thereafter, which was lost by a tie.
It is worth reminding ourselves that although technically we are now at first reading, this is in fact a fourth reading, even just for those of us who have participated in the present Parliament.
On that account, my Group will certainly vote for the sets of amendments agreed between us, the GUE/NGL Group and the PSE Group when the vote is held tomorrow.
If that means the compromise collapses then it will simply have to go to second reading, and so on.
I shall vote for these amendments, but at the end of the day I shall try to get this through at this reading. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, a short while ago the issue of takeover bids at European level showed, with some degree of sensation, two of the main problems of European integration.
Subject to Member States’ law being preserved, in particular by Article&#160;5, we will vote in favour of the new draft regulation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think I can say, in line with the opinions expressed by Commissioner Bolkestein, that we have lost yet another opportunity to modernise the capital market, first and foremost through rules which can ensure greater competitiveness of European companies and thus more effective protection of shareholders.
What we are doing here is acknowledging that there are different regulations and guaranteeing to the different countries that they can maintain protectionist legislation with regard to their companies, their national public or private market leaders.
I believe that we needed to go much further, to decide whether to aim at an integrated, effective, competitive European capital market which would provide fresh opportunities for growth for the European Union, not least in the field of employment, or not to take this so-called ‘risk’ and remain in our current situation.
The rules, as proposed by the Council, eliminate very few of the obstacles that some States’ rules place in the way of companies’ competitiveness, with the result that I am sad to say that hostile bids&#160;–&#160;as are the norm in a mature financial market, in which capital is moved where there are thought to be efficiency margins to recover, in the interests of the companies and the workers of those companies and of other companies, in the interests of the consumers of products, goods or services&#160;–&#160;become impossible.
There is also the risk that this crystallisation of the current situation will take us a step backwards.
There are very few positive elements: recognition of the protection of the rights of minorities and the sunset clause&#160;-&#160;the idea that the debate on the issue can be reopened.
I will end, Mr President, by saying that employment in Europe, the interests of workers and the unemployed, are to be protected by effective capital markets too.
However, it did so on that day some two-and-a-half years ago when Parliament rejected the takeover directive.
It must be said that it is all pretty transparent.
I am no Thatcherite – never have been – and I am not a Eurosceptic, but I think – some consider this to be an eccentric point of view – that we should deal with the world as it is and not the world as we would like it to be.
Ladies and gentlemen, when we consider Europe as a social community and as an example to others, workers’ rights have an important part to play.
I personally have had some difficulty with this debate.
In spite of this, it is incredibly important for us to obtain common corporate ground rules with a view to opening the European market to more liberal restructuring.
It is, however, a step in the right direction, and I think we can support this compromise, even if it shows that it takes sixteen years for EU legislation to come into effect.
The European Parliament must, therefore, approve the proposals for amendments intended to achieve this aim, although we must go further and ensure that workers and their representatives have mechanisms that enable them to obstruct a hostile takeover bid that will have potentially disastrous consequences for employment and for other rights. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Bolkestein, Mr Lehne, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few observations.
This also has some advantages for employees, for it means that, in some cases, these mechanisms will still give employees and employers themselves control over a few rights.
The majority of the group are behind me on this.
Consequently, the proposed compromise receives our approval.
We are not convinced by the rapporteur's arguments against adopting the amendment by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on employees' rights, and we would like to hear from Commissioner Bolkestein whether he will adopt it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, after fourteen years of negotiations to find a minimum agreement on mergers and acquisitions, the European institutions are still divided.
Parliament was in favour of harmonising the law.
The Council did not want to see the withdrawal of Member States’ means for intervening in the case of attempted hostile takeover bids for their large national companies.
In fact, it lifts the obstacles to our companies being taken over by interests outside Europe, to the extent that, in Article&#160;6 for example, it designates a single supervisory authority and prohibits authorities in Member States from giving their approval or demanding the addition of supplementary information.
Furthermore, this directive does not say anything at all about the specific control that the European Commission exercises over mergers that are likely to lead to misuse of a dominant position, control which, strangely enough, is still opposed to this type of merger when a European company has the dominant position, but much less so when a company from outside Europe has this position.
The Pechiney, Crédit Lyonnais and Vivendi Universal affairs, show this all to well. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the takeover bids directive is an essential legislative act for the creation of a genuine internal market in corporate control: a legislative act which can give a decisive boost to the virtuous circulation of capital in Europe.
This is, of course, a compromise, the only compromise possible at the present time.
The compromise to be put to the vote tomorrow reflects the state of European capitalism, which is still a mixture of small-scale and large-scale capitalism.
In spite of this, the compromise now before us is, in my view, unacceptable.
Subsequently, a revision would take place, involving a review of the system of A and B shares and also of other forms of shareholding.
If someone has bought a share with a higher voting value at market price, what right does the EU or any state then have quite simply to rob this person of this investment by saying that what he has paid for no longer has any value?
That may be the case, but the Swedish Government no doubt knows as well as anyone else that, in five years’ time when the revision takes place, no one will either be able, or wish, to investigate the multiplicity of forms of shareholding that exist within the EU.
Different voting values are a clear and straightforward system.
I also have some difficulties with Amendment No 4 and Amendment No 20, last paragraph, concerning special rights, which mix in an undesirable way special rights provided for in the articles of association of certain companies which could be exempted from the application of Article 11, and special rights provided for in law which, as I said earlier, are not within the scope of this directive in any case.
The first question is about the inclusion of consultation and codetermination rights for employees and I would like to say in answer to that question that this is not a social directive.
Furthermore, following Parliament's request, we have now stated in Article 8 of the directive that all information concerning the offer should be made available to the representatives of the employees or to the employees of both the offeree company and the offeror.
Of course the Commission will review on a regular basis what is happening in this area, in particular how the market will react to this proposal if it is accepted, but the moment for reviewing the situation and revising the proposal is five years after its adoption.
If one takes into account the normal period for adoption that date will then be in 2011.
That is also a reason why the Commission is profoundly unhappy with the proposal as it now seems to be approved by Parliament, because the world is going to change a great deal between now and 2011 and, as I said earlier, this will only be reviewed in 2011.
The debate is closed.
Some Member States already apply VAT to post, or to some or all services provided by the universal service provider, recognising the problems caused by an outdated exemption.
Some of these companies are now expanding their operations to other Member States in order to reap the benefits of the internal market just like other third-country postal operators are doing.
The postal market is now largely liberalised.
Under Article 93 of the Treaty, provisions concerning VAT must be adopted to the extent that harmonisation is necessary to ensure the establishment and the functioning of the internal market.
It has taken into account their opinions, in particular, those of private customers and charities by proposing that a reduced rate be applied to those services such as letterpost, small packages and direct mail which such customers need most.
Universal postal service providers will not be in a position to provide such a service if they are discouraged from investing and modernising and as a result can no longer compete with other operators in the parts of the market which are already open to competition.
In practice, the committee’s proposal means that the European Parliament must reject the Commission’s proposal in its entirety.
Personally, I am not entirely delighted with all these amendments, but I can live with them.
I also hope that Commissioner Bolkestein is able to live with them.
As is well known, VAT can be applied and removed.
The Commission estimates that the price of a first-class letter in the UK would, for example, increase by 0.3 euro cents in the case of VAT being applied at a reduced rate of 5% and by five euro cents in the case of VAT being applied at the standard rate of 17.5 per cent.
Just like Commissioner Bolkestein, I think that this impact should be countered by the option of being able to claim back the VAT or by special tax rates.
Finally, all those of you in this House who believe in a better, efficient market without obstacles and injustices cannot reject this proposal.
If nothing else, you could all listen to your own postal operators, or those that support the proposal. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has considered this dossier in very great depth, having been privileged to follow the development of postal services in the past, and having the hope of being able to do so in the future as well.
We are aware of the legal problem involved in certain Member States being required to introduce what would be their fourth rate of VAT.
I would be glad if these proposals by the Committee on Regional Policy could be taken on board. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Bolkestein was right to remind us that the Sixth Directive on Value Added Tax makes no provision for the payment of VAT on postal services.
Some time ago, in order to make the internal market a reality in the postal services sector, we made a start on the sector’s progressive liberalisation, thus making it possible for private enterprise to operate in it to an ever-greater extent.
The rapporteur and I have joined in putting forward a solution, one that provides for a reduced rate of VAT on all postal services, although those Member States that already impose very much reduced rates to other products and services would also be able to apply these to postal services.
In addition, the Commission has proposed a new definition of postal services, which has left me rather surprised.
Ever since the 1997 Postal Directive, we have had a definition recognised by all participants in the market and used by them without problems.
Any new definition would only make for legal uncertainty, as the parties involved would then be left wondering whether the postal services provided in accordance with the 1997 directive were the same as those that have now had tax imposed on them.
In order that we may avoid such legal uncertainty and the confusion that it would entail, the rapporteur and I have proposed that, when defining postal services, the VAT Directive should simply refer to the definition in the 1997 directive.
The amendment we are tabling provides for the introduction of VAT only when at least 50% of the national market has been liberalised.
It remains to me to thank the rapporteur for his excellent cooperation, and to appeal to those Members who, in the Committee, voted to reject the Commission proposal outright, to reconsider their position, for it would be inappropriate to reject it now.
We have to take a constructive approach to this matter, for only then will we have a chance of our proposals getting a favourable reception from the Council and the Commission. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the postal services have been a state monopoly for 150 years.
Despite the changes that have taken place since then, there is absolutely no basis for the idea that this area of public service provision now operates in an open market.
Rejecting this initiative can, therefore, only be seen as a recommendation to the Commission to include the proposal in the framework of a broader debate on the total liberalisation of the sector, ensuring that the services provided are completely effective, without overcharging citizens who use the service from the outset. &#160;&#160; The report deals only with those distortions of competition that are liable to be detrimental to the private enterprises that are taking over the postal sector; in no way does it reflect the interests either of users or of postal workers.
For over a century, the European states have established public postal services that worked in more or less acceptable fashion until criteria of public service began to give way to those of profitability.
I was calling on all those who want to purely and simply reject the Commission proposal to think about it.
In answer to her question, the Commission considers that any study of the postal sector and particularly those which must be done according to Directive 97/67/EEC should take into account the impact of VAT in the sector and that it undertakes to take into account the spirit of Amendment No 6.
As regards Amendments Nos 7 and 13 proposing to delay the entry into force of the directive until each Member State has achieved a certain degree of liberalisation, the Commission's position is that it cannot accept linking two issues which are quite separate, but the Commission could accept a date of entry into force of the directive no later than January 2006, by which date the Community postal market as a whole should have surpassed that degree of liberalisation.
The Commission does not support amendments linking the scope of the proposed place of supply rule and reduced rates to Article 2(1) of Directive 97/67/EC.
The linkage proposed by that amendment would not eliminate current distortions of competition in the postal market and therefore the Commission cannot support Amendments Nos 1, 8, 11 and 12.
For reasons of subsidiarity the Commission cannot support Amendments Nos 2, 4 and 9 which seek to oblige Member States to apply a reduced rate and to prescribe how a certain part of national VAT revenue should be spent.
Since this different tax liability is not causing problems today, it should not cause problems once the proposal is approved. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
This cooperation has enabled us to vote in December after all, and I can see a possibility of reaching a compromise with the Council in this.
Parliament had to vote on which committee should lead in handling this report, and that is, as far as I know, unique in the history of this Parliament.
As it has been re-tabled, I hope that we can find a qualified majority for these three important points, and that we can also introduce it in Europe.
Within the internal market that we want to optimise, there are no boundaries for our companies either, so as far as this is concerned, I think that minimum harmonisation is an excellent starting point that benefits both the environment and our economy.
With the overall goals of the proposal in mind, the Commission has shown flexibility in helping a balanced compromise to be achieved within the Council.
The common position aims to establish a Community framework whereby environmental damage would be prevented or remedied through a system of environmental liability.
We believe, on the contrary, that the international liability regime for damage caused by nuclear activities should be preserved.
The common position leaves a wide measure of discretion to the Member States in deciding whether or not remedial action ought to be taken.
Concerning the so-called regulatory compliance and state-of-the-art or development risk issue, some amendments – Amendments Nos 9 and 16 – have been tabled that both seek to exclude from the scope of the directive damage caused by lawful events or which were scientifically unpredictable and to ensure that, under the same conditions, the operator will be entirely exonerated from any financial responsibility.
Amendments Nos 48 and 61, for their part, seek to ensure that the liable operator will be entitled to invoke regulatory compliance and the unpredictable character of damage as mitigating factors.
These amendments are acceptable in part and in principle insofar as their thrust goes closer to the current thinking on these issues, as it emerged from the debates that led to the adoption of the common position.
The Commission considers that Member States should retain the right to opt either for joint and several or proportional liability – or a mix of both – according to their national legal traditions.
With respect to biotechnology, Amendments Nos 43, 44, 54 and 55 require the Commission to present a proposal to supplement the regulatory framework on liability for economic damage caused by genetically modified organisms.
On the question of financial security, Amendments Nos 22 and 49 require the Commission to submit proposals for a harmonised compulsory financial guarantee, should no appropriate instruments or markets for insurance or other forms of financial security have developed on their own.
Member States and market operators, as well as the Commission, will have an important role to play in encouraging a timely emergence of financial assurance systems, products and markets to that effect.
Having said this, it is clear to me that Member States should have the possibility to develop financial assurance solutions at their own pace which are well adapted to their own needs and institutional conditions.
Finally, on the issue of the extent to which damage should be remedied, there is general agreement that the polluter-pays principle should imply for the liable operator, as for the polluter, payment of all damage caused to the environment.
Amendments Nos 31 to 36 narrow down the scope of damage remediation by suppressing the remediation of interim losses, together with suppressing the concept of compensatory remedial measures.
Having said all that, the Commission can support either fully, in part or in principle several of the amendments proposed.
The Commission sees the common position as a minimum in this respect.
Finding a balanced compromise will be difficult, but the Commission will do all it can to help achieve this.
For the first time, compensation becomes payable in respect of damage to protected species and their habitats, too.
Let me consider a few individual points that gave rise to controversy in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market wants that time to be made available to them.
In practical terms, that means that our group opposes the introduction of mandatory insurance with immediate effect from the enactment of the directive.
Financial arrangements must be acceptable in the compromise proposal we now have.
Let us not therefore put ourselves in the ridiculous position of producing a baby monster which is far inferior to our powers. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I believe that we are all aware that this directive on environmental liability is potentially a key piece in the legislative arsenal aimed at making economic activities compatible with protecting the environment.
The Commission proposal and, it must be said, the Council common position, leave us completely unsatisfied because they give us a text that, I am sorry to say, does not live up to the stated ambitions.
Even these derogations are still considered inadequate by our fellow Members in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which adopted an amendment proposing a supplementary derogation for the agriculture and forestry sector: the respect of good professional practice in agriculture and forestry.
I know that we are now at second reading and I have learnt to be realistic after several years as a Member of this Parliament.
Fourthly, we are calling, and there are several of us doing so in this Parliament, for additional legislation concerning the liability of producers and users of genetically modified organisms in the event of contamination.
As regards nuclear energy, in particular, operators’ liability remains limited.
We cannot accept that such a dangerous activity is exempt from such important legislation on the liability of economic actors. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is unacceptable that a directive on environmental liability should not include pollution from the use of genetically modified plants (GMOs).
That being said, GMO pollution is not included in the proposal for a directive on environmental liability.
The EU should therefore require the Member States to impose a duty on GMO corn seed and feed – a duty used to fund control and supervision, as well as indemnification for damage that arises from correct use. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report on environmental liability has led to extremely complex and, indeed, emotionally-charged debates in the competent committees.
I believe that the continuous search for a balance has made the directive now before us far too vague, but I nonetheless believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and its rapporteur, in particular, have done sterling work in their quest to achieve a more or less acceptable compromise.
I am delighted that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has adopted my amendment on development risks and the permit defence.
The directive is complex and the&#160;–&#160;positive or negative&#160;–&#160;impact on the environment and the production system as a whole depends precisely on whether we strike the right balance.
I believe that the Council’s common position is, in itself, a useful contribution in this sense, and we must support it.
As I understand it, the Commission does not agree on this point, which I would like to see explored in greater depth, so as to give greater consideration to whether it is sensible to produce a definition which does not cover all possible eventualities and which might, in actual fact, lead to a claim for damages being made to a financial intermediary.
This would appear to be a valid request and I do, indeed, recommend that the House support the directive.
That is why I believe mandatory financial security is important.
I was grateful for Commissioner Bolkestein's remarks about Amendments Nos 48 and 61.
It is important to take account of permits and state-of-the-art.
However, as the common position indicates, there are permits and permits.
We are very strongly in favour of this directive and hope that it will leave this House in a really strong form. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we feel that the proposal for a directive that we are debating this evening with regard to the prevention and the remedying of environmental damage is very important because it develops a system of liabilities based on the polluter pays principle for a whole range of damage likely to have been caused by economic activities to the natural heritage.
With regard to the reparation measures, we must allow the Member States to be able to cover the damage created, as reparation measures, as laid down in Amendments Nos 10, 11 and 12 approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
This moderate position on the part of the European Parliament is now in danger of being cancelled at second reading, in that there are amendments which, if accepted, will result in complete exemption.
To conclude, I should point out that the contradictory positions of the PPE-DE cancel out protection and it is worth questioning how it is that, while they are calling here for collective responsibility, they advocate personal responsibility everywhere else. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, environmental liability is a sensitive topic.
This is also evident from the battle between the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
It is very important to us, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, to extend the scope of this directive.
The crucial question is: who should foot the bill for environmental damage?
The second reading position is an excellent starting point and one which we support.
If we keep with what we are proposing in the common position, this piece of legislation can do some real good and should be welcomed and we welcome it today and we wish to see the directive in place. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am a convinced supporter of the European model of the environmentally-responsible market economy, which makes it clear that the liberalised market is not the irresponsible thing it is often suspected of being, but has social and environmental responsibilities and hence a responsibility to future generations.
It follows that there is no doubt that a responsible European economic and environmental policy must, together with the approval procedure, ensure that serious damage to the environment can be prevented, and that any damage caused can be made good, with the costs being borne primarily by the persons or bodies that caused the damage.
In Amendments Nos 41 and 42, then, we are asking for this to be included.
I am very grateful to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for the sensible and moderate approach that it has taken.
I should like to ask those of my fellow MEPs who have difficulty with the restrictions introduced in the report, and also the Commission in a way – for it, as I understand it, also has difficulty with a number of our amendments – to revisit the concept of liability without fault very carefully, to bear in mind the difficult, serious impact this can have, and to ensure that we will eventually end up with a better regulation which, for economic reasons and reasons of fairness, is showing some clemency.
I believe that the common position would have achieved, or has achieved in fact, a satisfactory balance between legal certainty, environmental protection and industrial development.
The operators responsible for the damage must have the option of taking the necessary measures themselves and informing the competent authorities in due time.
These provisions must be laid down so that decisions are not left too much to the discretion of the Member States.
The text of the common position states that the individual Member States may, at their discretion, grant exemptions for exceptions where damages are caused by an emission or activity or event allowed in applicable laws and regulations or in an authorisation issued to the operator or which was not considered to be harmful according to the state of scientific and technical knowledge at the time when the emission was released or the activity took place.
The apportioning of joint and several financial liability, in addition to being in blatant conflict with the ‘polluter pays’ principle, would certainly make it more difficult, if not impossible, for operators in production sectors to calculate insurance premiums and other financial security.
The common position which was sent to Parliament for second reading is clearly a compromise.
The debate is closed.
These provisions follow the enforcement of compulsory use of safety belts in vehicles, provided for in the directive of 8&#160;April 2003.
From then on all seats, and in particular those in coaches, that are in vehicles put into service in the Community from July 2004 should be tested in accordance with the directive.
The Commission proposal also includes a ban on installing side-facing seats in any vehicles designed for transport of persons, with the exception of city buses with more than 22 seats.
The Commission cannot support the rapporteur’s proposal to allow, despite everything, the installation of side-facing seats in coaches.
I must remind you that when the directive of 20&#160;November 2001 was drawn up as regards safety of buses and coaches, this issue had already been the subject of a debate.
This study showed that there were no technical solutions adapted to this layout of seats and it recommended a ban on side-facing seats in all vehicles for the transport of people.
The Commission cannot, therefore, accept Amendments Nos 1 and 2. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the White Paper on European transport policy, we set ourselves ambitious goals, especially as regards the improvement of road safety.
We must aim to provide an equal degree of protection for people wherever they are seated in a vehicle, that is, whether in side-facing seats or in those facing the direction of travel.
I would also like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the PSE Group, in particular to thank Commissioner Liikanen for bringing forward this proposal.
To be pragmatic and practical, if industry can come up with a safety-belt for side-facing seats then the PSE Group will of course, think again, as, I am sure, will the Commissioner.
I am sure that is what we will say tomorrow. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. (1) The Commission can accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 (except paragraph 5a), 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 33, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 42.
The Commission rejects the following amendments: 4, 5, 20 (paragraph 5a only), 21, 31, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 43, 44 and 45.
