Women in international politics (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Gomes, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on Women in international politics.
In the UN, of the 91 envoys or representatives of the Secretary-General only nine are women.
In spite of Resolution 1325 of the Security Council, adopted six months ago, the composition of international bodies and missions involved in conflict prevention continues to be characterised by inequality.
Three weeks ago, the Security Council held a debate on women, peace and security in order to gauge progress in the implementation of Resolution 1325.
Furthermore, out of 107 EU third-country delegations, only seven women are currently serving at the level of Head of EC delegation.
This role of the Commission is clearly reflected in our March 2006 Communication 'Roadmap to Gender Equality'.
As an example of our action in the external policy field, I would like to mention the Five-Year Action Plan on Gender Equality being signed today in Istanbul by Ministers from the 35 countries of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership.
In addition, these functions and professions must be closely interlinked if we want social and cultural development to be genuinely and fully humane.
It is unusual to see a strong social presence of women in all areas, as women are naturally opposed to a society organised exclusively on the basis of efficiency and productivity, and they insist on redefining these systems in a more humane way.
In this report we call on the United Nations once again to convene the Fifth World Conference, and we do so with one voice, the European voice, representing 25, soon to be 27, members of the United Nations out of a total of 191 members, a group carrying significant weight.
Both the European Commission and the European Parliament should routinely include in their external relations the dimension of issues of concern to women and should seek balanced participation, both in their speakers in external relations and in the composition of their delegations. (PT) I wish to begin by congratulating Mrs Gomes on her excellent report, which addresses a most topical and relevant subject.
Women remain under-represented in both national and European political life, and this is no less true of the European Parliament.
The fact is, then, that it is also important from a democratic point of view for women to participate as fully as men in the political decision-making process.
European policy on equality is based on welfare - something that we must treasure and on which we need to build further, for there are now major deficits where both equality and welfare are concerned.
We must be aware, however, that it is not women who take the decisions that lead to these situations because, as Mrs Gomes's extremely interesting report makes very clear, there are practically no women in the places where decisions are taken on international policy, despite the recommendations of the Beijing Action Programme and Resolution 1325 of the United Nations Security Council and despite the fact that, according to experts, women have a particular gift for negotiation and reaching agreements.
Out of nearly 44 000 members of parliament worldwide, only 16% are women.
Out of the 191 countries that are currently members of the UN, only seven have a woman as a head of state and eight have a female head of government.
The European Union should set an example to the world in terms of equal opportunities and democracy.
However, even here, in the European Parliament, women make up only 30% of MEPs.
