European Aviation Safety Agency (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the Council common position for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency, and repealing Council Directive 91/670/EEC, Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 and Directive 2004/36/EC (10537/3/2007 - C6-0353/2007 - (Rapporteur: Jörg Leichtfried).
On the one hand, Europe's airspace has been completely liberalised for the aviation industry and air carriers, while, on the other hand, there are still 27 different civil aviation authorities with 27 sets of rules and ways of thinking which sometimes diverge.
On adopting Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002, laying down common rules in relation to airworthiness and establishing the European Aviation Safety Agency, it was agreed that an optimum and uniform level of safety could only be secured by extending the scope of this text and, therefore, extending the powers of the European Aviation Safety Agency to air operations, pilots' licences and safety of airline companies in third countries: this is the purpose of the amendment to Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002.
Furthermore, this proposal intends to step up controls and penalties in the event of non-compliance with these rules and, in the light of experience, to improve the functioning of the European Aviation Safety Agency.
The Council's common position generally follows the proposal made by the Commission, even though a number of provisions, such as those relating to the Agency's governance, have been reduced.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Thank you, Madam President.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Madam President, I wish to congratulate my colleague Jörg Leichtfried on his human qualities and on his ability to make friends in a complex parliamentary confrontation on such a technical issue, but also so vital an issue, in order to ensure safety in such an important sector for European economic development as aviation.
As the Commissioner rightly said, it is in everyone's interest from the point of view of safety for training to be improved.
I also feel the solutions provided on penalties are extremely important, as also Parliament's control not only in relation to comitology, in the case of flight time, but also in relation to the right to information, in the case of the Management Board.
Despite the fact that after lengthy discussions an acceptable compromise has been achieved on nearly all issues, the Commission's position regarding the classification of aircraft types up to 7 500 kg according to weight gives cause for concern.
The Convention on International Civil Aviation signed in Chicago on 7 December 1944 plays a key role in this area.
We are dealing with a very important issue that will benefit our citizens.
I welcome the ambitious plan of the EASA to simplify testing procedures for aircraft under 1 tonne and for aircraft with a maximum take-off mass under 2 tonnes.
The debate so far leads me to believe that Annex 2 will be retained in its present form.
According to my constituent - whose cost increases I have in writing - maintenance costs will rise from GBP 1 206 this year to in excess of GBP 3 000 next year.
Lastly, as many other Members have done before me, I should also like to mention the rapporteur and thank him for his good work.
According to a recent survey, in 2006 alone, low-cost companies transported 140 million passengers, such companies being present in 280 European airports.
As proof of this, I can tell you that Mrs Marion Blakey, a former Administrator of the FAA in the United States, held meetings with the Agency in Cologne to discuss cooperation since she felt EASA was a high-quality agency.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday 12 December 2007.
In the recent adoption of the Galileo project, 50 million euros were taken from the budgets of several European agencies, and the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) was one of them.
I have always supported the Galileo project because it is especially important in my region, and I am very glad an agreement has been reached on how it will be financed.
