Reducing disparities in the poorest regions of the EU (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the role and effectiveness of cohesion policy in reducing disparities in the poorest regions of the EU.
In accordance with the aims of the Community, as stated in Article 158 of the Treaty on European Union, which include harmonised development and the reduction of disparities between levels of development in different regions, we the European Parliament call for decisive action aimed at reducing the most serious cases of under-development in the poorest regions of the European Union.
Cohesion policy should support entrepreneurship and investment in the poorest regions.
New financial instruments, such as JEREMY and JESSICA, can successfully contribute to regional development, but awareness of how to use these instruments at a local and regional level is still very limited.
In fact, regional disparities in the EU are very important, much more than within the United States or Japan, or of a similar dimension to that in China and India for instance.
Despite impressive growth rates in the new Member States and the convergence of many regions of the EU-15, there are still 70 regions - home to 123 million Europeans - with a GDP per head below 75% of the EU average.
In 27 regions, GDP per head declined in real terms between the years 2000 and 2004 and, in another 24, growth was under 0.5% per year.
This includes the former cohesion countries which, with the exception of Portugal, in the last few years have experienced impressive progress.
Between 2000 and 2005, public investment in the four cohesion countries has been around 25% higher than it would have been without cohesion policy.
Increasing GDP levels attributable to regional policy ranged from 10% in Greece and 8.5% in Portugal in the period 1989-1999, and 6% for Greece and Portugal, 4% in the German Länder and 2.4% in Spain in the period 2000-2006.
For example, over 450 000 gross jobs were generated in six countries: Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the UK.
This debate aims at nurturing the review of the EU budget that the Commission has to undertake in the years 2008 and 2009.
The Commission intends to present the results of this consultation in spring 2008, together with the fifth progress report on economic and social cohesion.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (CS) Madam President, Mr Potočnik, ladies and gentlemen, the differences between the poor and the rich regions of the Community are truly enormous.
I would be delighted if the new financial instruments, Jessica, Jeremy and Jasper, which were invented some years ago, finally became familiar in the Member States and were used to good effect.
Of more than 400 applications submitted so far for operational programmes, however, a quarter at most have been approved.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Madam President, like my fellow Member, Mrs Krehl, I congratulate you on your election and on your first sitting as President.
Commissioner Potočnik, I should like to say to you that this report, which has been presented exceedingly well by our fellow Member, Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg, is first and foremost a cry from the heart.
It is a cry from the heart because the development of poor regions is not just about the development of regions but about the taking account of the situations - tragic situations in some cases - of people who are unemployed or who have to move, etc.
It concentrates on the implementation problems in the new Member States in connection with the current Structural Funds Regulation.
By stressing these aspects we seek to make a clear case for the existence of a strong regional policy as an essential tool for the reduction of disparities and the promotion of real, as opposed to nominal, convergence in the poorest regions of the European Union.
There are 80 million citizens in Europe living below the poverty line.
We are not going to measure standards in Europe by how many people drive a Mercedes 500, but by how many children do not have a glass of milk to drink in the morning. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, since 2004, economic growth in the new Member States has been in the order of 5.3%, which is 2% higher than in the old Member States.
The Geringer de Oedenberg report is right to draw attention to this.
The Member States too, together with the European Union, must opt in favour of a territorial approach towards their cohesion policy.
A fourth cohesion report offers the framework in which this can be discussed.
On 8 November, we will be organising a hearing on this in this House.
The report we are discussing concerns the poorest regions in the European Union not the poorest regions in the Member States, which are often relatively rich, on a European scale.
It is evident that in the initial phase, inequalities within the countries showed an increase.
Gender mainstreaming is a horizontal principle that we will follow in all our actions undertaken under all the structural funds.
