One rapporteur negotiates, and 784 Members have no opportunity to contribute their opinion.
I ask the Presidency of the Council and I also ask the Presidency of this House to ensure that we can all give ourselves the necessary time. (The President cut off the speaker) (SL) Ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that right in this period of time we have had a very ambitious Presidency, which has truly worked hard to find an agreement on the climate and energy package.
This is not just important for the European Union, but also for third countries such as China.
In this case we must use the funds for measures within the European Union and for cooperation with third countries, and when we talk about the level of emissions, we must take into account our responsibility for global emissions, currently running at 13 to 14 per cent, and also add to this our historical responsibility for emissions.
I would like to thank the entire negotiating group and inform them that this agreement will see us well on the way to the negotiations in Poznań next week. (FI) Madam President, we know very well that Parliament's position on the climate package is not united.
When these countries then have to deliver their own climate policy, they have to pay more dearly for it.
It is bad for the car industry, bad for the environment and it is bad for consumers, who want to have low-energy cars for the future. - (GA) - Madam President, the European Union must agree ambitious targets so that Europe can lead the way in combating climate change.
Madam President, Mr Piebalgs, Mr Dimas, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to thank you for holding this debate, which was fundamental for those of us who are participating at the same time in the Poznań Conference and the European Environment Council, and who, next Monday, will be at the Energy Council, and then at the European Council on 11-12 December.
We could discuss the first three years, but we could also discuss the target, set at 95 grams, which is the key factor for the development of our industry.
The only issue of importance for us is not to penalise, but to allow competitiveness and to guarantee that each of these targets will be met, as they work together and are all completely interdependent.
In any case, please accept my sincere thanks.
This package also provides a basis for the solution to energy security, not only for the European Union but also for other parts of the world.
I believe that today's debate has been very positive and has clearly demonstrated Parliament's commitment to finding solutions very rapidly.
The Commission, from my side and that of my colleagues, will work very hard to facilitate agreement between the Parliament and the Council this December.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, I would also like to thank the Members of the European Parliament that took part in today's debate for their constructive opinions.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) Protecting the environment and combating climate change are essential priorities for the whole international community.
From this perspective, by improving certain underdeveloped situations such as that in Italy, a serious debate on nuclear energy, with specific reference to third generation plants, is to be welcomed.
in writing. - (NL) We in Europe are standing at a crossroads in history.
The agreement that was concluded this week on reducing CO2 emissions from new cars has met with criticism, because it does not go far enough.
We will certainly start from 2012, albeit gradually, and we have also held onto the objective of a maximum of 95 g CO2/km by 2020.
The global processes regarding climate change must be solved within a long-term plan, as well as with concrete measures taken by all players in the world economy.
This package shares among the Member States, based on criteria and targets, the EU objectives adopted by the European Council in spring 2007.
The European Council to be held 11-12 December 2008 will decide on all the elements linked to this package.
In preparation for the discussions to take place 11-12 December, Romania along with Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Lithuania and Latvia submitted on 28 November a proposal for redistributing the income obtained from auctioning CO2 emissions, based on the following formula: ( 90 - x)% + 10% + x%, where x is distributed to those Member States which successfully achieved reductions of more than 20% in the Kyoto emissions ceiling in 2005.
in writing. - (FI) The emissions trading scheme presents a choice of two options.
The EU has signed up to the UN's climate targets, under which industrialised countries are supposed to cut CO2 emissions by between 25 and 40 per cent by 2020.
The agreement on CO2 emissions from cars is a bow to the car industry and it only serves to confirm that the EU's promises in relation to climate change are not worth the paper they are written on.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our adoption of this climate change and energy package should serve as a letter of intent, enabling us to send out a crystal-clear signal to the whole world to reach an ambitious agreement in Copenhagen next year.
