Towards a reform of the World Trade Organisation (debate) The next item is the report by Cristiana Muscardini, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, 'Towards a reform of the World Trade Organisation'.
The recent accession of many new members - one might just mention China and the forthcoming entry of Russia - highlights the success of a body now comprising 152 countries.
The guiding criterion for the Doha Round has been to involve all member countries in negotiations on a whole range of matters, whereas in such a broad-based organisation efforts should be made to develop a plurilateral approach incorporating a form of 'variable geometry'.
As to the ideas expressed in the report, the Commission shares most of them in principle, even if it is clear that some proposals put forward in the motion for a resolution will face strong resistance from certain WTO members.
The new unilateral system of tariff concessions in favour of developing countries, the General System of Preferences Plus, is an example of that.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Development. - (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, our Committee on Development fully supports the arguments by the rapporteur, Mrs Muscardini, in favour of a radical reform of the World Trade Organisation.
In 2001 the Sutherland report started a very lively debate in the WTO itself on its institutional reform, a debate that unfortunately came to an end far too quickly.
This is why the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has pointed to the need to reduce state aid, to remove non-tariff trade barriers and to help developing countries to be in a better position in the negotiations regarding the multilateral framework and the rules of free trade.
This underlines once again why we need a strong WTO and a strong Secretariat - in order to take decisions and to uphold the rules, but also in order to develop the multilateral trade system.
But we will never succeed in doing this without a strong WTO and without the opportunity to uphold a strong framework that is good for the developing countries, that can give poor people new and better opportunities and that can also help us all benefit from the opportunities of free trade.
The report by Mrs Muscardini also demonstrates this.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, it is essential to complete the Doha Round but it is also essential to examine once again the functioning of the WTO.
The first element is the balance in terms of international standards and the establishment of new relations between the WTO and the other international organisations.
I also believe that that would help to dispel certain myths and make the organisation more transparent.
It employs around 600 staff, a figure that is again much lower than that of the other multilateral organisations.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (BG) The dynamic process of economic and financial integration on a global scale is a determining factor for the difficult international economic environment.
To respond to the economic and political realities, the World Trade Organisation, as a trade system with rules which are binding on international trade, ought to make improvements to its rules of operation, organisational structure and decision-making procedure, and exhibit a more pragmatic institutional flexibility and adaptability.
And in doing so, it should, of course, take account of the fact that to negotiate in a format of 150 states at various levels of development, having different structures of their economies and implementing various reforms in economic sectors is quite a challenging endeavour.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (GA) Madam President, agriculture should not lose out in a World Trade Organisation agreement.
We also support the role of parliamentary scrutiny in order to mitigate the WTO's lack of accountability and legitimacy, as well as the need to develop the WTO dispute settlement on the basis of international environmental and social law, ensuring that it has real sanctioning capacities.
I think the report also fails to recognise that it required nothing less than a revolution on the part of developing countries in Cancún in 2003 and of some of the emerging countries prior to Hong Kong in order to begin to end the old feudal system on which the WTO has been running for far too long.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, from the report it seems that the EU requires all Member States to reach a consensus in WTO negotiations or to justify the position in writing.
The basis for the reform is to be the report by Mr Peter Sutherland.
As we know, Mr Sutherland at present heads two supranational giants: BP and Goldman Sachs International.
We are not yet ready to sacrifice our agriculture and our role as contributors to food security just to obtain, shamefully, a few reductions in industrial tariffs. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the debate this evening on Mrs Muscardini's report on the reform of the World Trade Organisation.
In this respect, I must point out that Article 38 of the GATT requires all WTO members to stabilise and improve the situation of the markets for primary products, which are of particular importance for developing countries.
The rises in the prices of basic commodities has compounded a very complicated general state of affairs.
Thirdly, I fully support Mrs Muscardini's suggestions concerning the establishment of a WTO parliamentary assembly, changes in the classification of countries into developed and developing, the need for closer cooperation between the WTO and the UN, and departure from the principle of consensus especially at the level of working groups and committees within the WTO framework. (NL) Mr President, I would very much like to say a lot about my ideas on the reform of the WTO, but instead I would rather ask the Commission a number of specific questions to which I would like answers.
Parliament has indicated that the majority of its members are opposed to the trade in sealskin.
I think that those questions are very important and they need to be taken into consideration in the reform. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, trade between nations is a good thing.
The WTO does still have a significant role to play in the world and still plays its role well, but it needs to be modernised and reformed.
In terms of the report as a whole, I very much support the work that Ms Muscardini has done in the Committee on International Trade. (PL) Madam President, the common market and unrestricted trade are key prerequisites to economic development.
The latter is a broadly based body bringing together more than 150 member countries.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - In 2001, the Doha Round negotiations had an objective to lower trade barriers around the world, permitting free trade between countries of varying prosperity.
