European Microfinance Facility for Employment and Social Inclusion (Progress) (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Göncz, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on establishing a European Microfinance Facility for Employment and Social Inclusion (Progress Microfinance Facility) - C7-0053/2009 -. (FR) Madam President, I note that, throughout the previous debate, you referred to the debate that is now to take place as a debate on Progress.
This support was wide-ranging in many respects.
On the one hand, as a crisis management facility, it will also help precisely those who are in the most desperate situation, who have lost their job and who cannot access credit or assistance either due to the financial crisis.
Some of the resources are being contributed by the European Investment Bank, while others are coming from other commercial banks as the European Union will be primarily covering the risk, thereby making it easier for the other participants to assume the risk.
The Council and Commission originally proposed that EUR 100 million should come from the Progress programme, which is primarily used to draw up policies for combating social exclusion and supporting equal opportunities.
We, for our part, said right from the start that the Progress programme cannot be jeopardised in any way since, during the current crisis, it is needed even more than before.
We suggested that, considering the original proposal, we could envisage launching the programme even with EUR 100 million rather than EUR 150 million.
Parliament's 2010 draft budget found resources of EUR 25 million, which will enable it to launch the programme at the very start of 2010, and it was able to find these resources without touching the Progress programme in 2010.
We also requested this item be removed from today's agenda because we failed to reach agreement on it.
I believe it is important for Parliament to vote as soon as possible on this matter, this very week even, so that this project can therefore be launched at the start of 2010 with a fund of EUR 100 million, because this conveys the message that this is a crisis management facility where speed is a particularly important consideration.
I sincerely hope that Commissioner Špidla can help us get the Commission to withdraw its original proposal on diverting the EUR 100 million from the Progress programme so that this programme can be launched as soon as possible.
The current crisis is bringing about a significant rise in unemployment in all of the Member States, the effects of which will unfortunately fall hardest on the most vulnerable members of our society.
I would like to congratulate the Committee on Employment for the outstanding work they have carried out in this area and, in particular, to applaud the contribution made by Mrs Göncz to this initiative.
Although both bodies will probably approve an overall budget of EUR 100 million for this instrument, identifying the sources of the finance continues to be the main obstacle.
As you know, the micro-financing proposal forms part of a package which includes a proposal to transfer EUR 100 million from the Progress programme.
In conclusion, I would like once more to applaud the rapporteur for the work she has carried out in submitting a report and amendments that will enable both of the lawmaking bodies to concentrate on the main problem that remains to be resolved, namely the funding.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs (ECON). - (SV) Madam President, if we are to reduce unemployment, then both the EU and the Member States must shoulder greater responsibility.
It is about giving the unemployed a new start and opening the door to enterprise for some of the most vulnerable groups in the EU, including young people.
The proposal is intended to facilitate small-scale investments and provide microenterprises with the opportunity to grow.
I must say that I find it strange that the Council is so stubbornly rejecting our proposal for EUR 150 million during the period - a mean and miserly approach in these difficult times!
As the coordinator from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would simply like to confirm that we support in every single dossier tabled before us one of the most important items for us, namely, the protection of jobs and the creation of new jobs.
Let me remind you that the PPE Group has been supporting the issue of micro-credit for a long time.
In some countries, this sector even accounts for more than 90% of employees.
Therefore, I think that it is important for us to agree on the issue of funding as soon as possible as well.
We also support the 35 proposals jointly submitted by the PPE Group, along with the Socialists, Liberals and Conservatives, because we feel that this provides the guarantee that we can approve this facility at first reading and launch it as soon as possible.
We know that in this crisis situation, the most vulnerable people - those who do not have access to the large banks to release loans to fund their initiatives - are able, through this tool, to launch their own strategies and, in a way, to create their own jobs.
When you look at the initiative launched by Mr Barroso in autumn 2008 to organise the European recovery, this tool was defined as an important one to be used in achieving the European Union's strategy.
That is why, taking a responsible attitude, we say that we are prepared to examine our proposal with the Spanish Presidency at the very beginning of January: EUR 40 million taken from the budgetary margins, EUR 60 million taken from the Progress programme, with EUR 20 million redeployed, enabling the burden to be distributed fairly.
In this context, I am pleased to see that credit unions, cooperative banks and other mutual financial institutions can operate the fund, because they are often closer to those who may wish to access this particular facility.
I could not help but think that many of those same ministers allocated billions to support banks, but were unable to support other financial institutions that would provide micro-credit to those who have lost their jobs and who would have difficulty in accessing credit from the same banks that have been saved.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, micro-credits and small loans can help people who are not able to get credit through normal market mechanisms.
Micro-credits are also an important instrument for supporting the social economy.
However, EUR 76 billion is available for the European Social Fund, and with cofinancing that becomes EUR 118 billion!
Even a tenth of that would still be EUR 11 billion that the Member States could use.
However, this will no longer come from the structural funds, where we have billions available to us, but from the smallest of all of the European Union's programmes, the poverty programme Progress, for which a total of only EUR 743 million is available over seven years.
We agree to the release of resources amounting to EUR 100 million for securing these small loans for a fixed period.
We fully endorse the proposal to release the necessary resources for this financial instrument from the resources originally intended for the Progress programme.
The resources of the Progress programme, which amount to EUR 700 million if I am correctly informed, are used for building up study and analysis networks.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a microfinance instrument for the unemployed, those at risk of becoming unemployed and, above all, for people who do not have access to normal credit markets, is evidence of good intentions and is, in principle, something that our group supports.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft decision passed by the European Parliament and the Council establishing a European micro-financing instrument in the area of employment and social inclusion is, in essence, a draft which adapts the original Progress programme to the current economic reality of a Europe marked by the financial and economic crisis.
It is only right, therefore, that the EU should establish a microfinance facility in response to this employment crisis and, in that way, also lend support to those programmes in the individual Member States which pursue the same objective.
However, a proposal for EUR 100 million over a three-year period lacks ambition, in my view, given the growth in unemployment.
We must do all we can to reach agreement quickly with the Spanish Presidency so that the programme can get under way at the earliest possible date.
As I was saying, this is no time for the Council to haggle over what is a tiny amount of money given the scale of the jobs crisis, the size of the overall budget and certainly in the context of the support that Member States, and indeed the European Central Bank, have given to the banking sector - a banking sector, incidentally, which will not lend to the people that we are seeking to facilitate.
In my country, Poland, alone, the actions of the European Commission have led to the collapse of the shipbuilding industry and, as a result, many thousands of people have lost their jobs directly, while it is estimated that indirect job losses have been suffered by nearly 80 000 people.
Another extremely important element of European Commission policy is fishing which, not uncommonly, is the only sector that stimulates non-industrialised areas of the European Union.
At a time of crisis, European Commission policy must create the basis for development of the economy, and not hastily treat the effects of erroneous strategy. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the rapporteur on the work that has been done in this report and on her speech just now.
This new microfinance facility will make it possible to grant micro-credit to small enterprises and people who have lost their jobs and who want to start up their own business and create their own jobs.
With the economic downturn, the banks have stopped giving out loans for start-ups and job creation, and access to credit is more difficult at a time when it ought to be more accessible.
This new microfinance scheme, however, will counter this current trend of restricting access to credit, by making it easier to obtain the funds needed to set up new businesses and create new jobs.
The Commission proposal is to reallocate EUR 100 million for this finance facility out of the Progress budget.
We cannot agree with this proposal.
The financial and economic crisis is also a social crisis.
We are therefore in favour of creating a separate budget line to finance this facility, as well as increasing its appropriation to EUR 150 million.
We also agree with the need to make it clearer in the legislation itself that the target group is all vulnerable groups who are finding it difficult to enter or re-enter the labour market and who are facing the threat of social exclusion.
To conclude, I would stress that it is essential that the people who receive financial support should also be given appropriate training. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, against a backdrop of serious economic crisis, characterised by very severe effects on employment, with many workers standing to lose their jobs and, at the same time, countless young people not able to enter the labour market for the first time, it is essential that the European Union and the Member States take action, both with global strategies and with targeted instruments.
In fact, it is women who are particularly discriminated against and disadvantaged, in terms of access to both the labour market and the conventional credit market.
It is up to the Council and the Member States to show that they are serious and committed, and pave the way so that the financial situation can be set right. (ET) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has made a proposal to create a new means of financing - micro-credit financing.
The initiative is a good and important one, but the fact that it has been suggested that the resources needed for this should be taken from the already running Progress programme is not acceptable.
I would like to remind the Council and the Commission that the people did not elect us in this chamber in order to be a rubber stamp.
At the same time, however, the Commission is going forward with its desire to reduce funding for the measures, which are still being implemented.
I am sure that we in this chamber cannot approve micro-credit financing until it is clear where the money for these measures will come from - until it is clear that the funds will be found somewhere other than from plans targeted at all those people who are suffering. (LV) Madam President, the economies of the EU States are still experiencing the effects of the global economic crisis, but the crisis is having the hardest impact on young entrepreneurs and managers of small enterprises, whose entrepreneurial ideas are, at the moment, not receiving support from lenders.
New jobs are created when businesses have access to finance in order to make their ideas into a reality.
In these circumstances, it is usually micro-enterprises and young entrepreneurs that suffer the most.
One solution to this problem is the European microfinance instrument, which plans to allocate EUR 100 million to the development of micro-enterprises and new enterprises, reallocating resources from existing sources of money.
That means that this money will help in the most direct way to create new jobs and will stimulate the real economy.
The countries of the European Union are experiencing the crisis now; Europe needs new jobs now; support for new entrepreneurship initiatives is needed right away. (EL) Madam President, the mere fact that the European Microfinance Facility for Employment and Social Integration won the consent and agreement of all the political groups proves how necessary this mechanism is.
There is another EUR 75 million which I think needs to be found from the budget because, if we take the money from the Progress programme, then it is very simply as if we were taking from the less poor and vulnerable in order to give it to the more poor and vulnerable.
That is precisely why I believe that the Council should approve the European Parliament's position. (BG) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has been adopting a variety of measures to combat the economic crisis for more than a year.
This will convince people that the institutions are effective and close to them.
I therefore welcome this new financing instrument for people who want to go self-employed.
It was so successful that I would like to call for it to be included in this project, in other words, that the project not only provide finance for people who are going self-employed, but also for those who support these people.
In these cases, much smaller amounts are sufficient, and that is something that we should take into account in this programme. (LT) I would like to underline that currently, one of the most important tasks for the European Union is to curb the mass unemployment caused by prolonged inactivity and the social crisis.
During this difficult social and economic period, the Commission's proposal to reallocate EUR 100 million from the Progress budget would be an unsatisfactory solution, as it would not reduce the social isolation of the most vulnerable groups.
Thus, there is no other way but to find additional funds for microfinance facilities. (The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8)) (DE) Madam President, we have now listened to three or four speakers from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament who have said that they do not want to take any money from Progress.
However, the amendments state that the instrument is to be called Progress, and Mrs Berès has also said that EUR 60 million will come from Progress.
To illustrate that: I became aware at the weekend of a situation where a company, which had a significant order delayed for three months, went to its bank - the bank it had been dealing with for 15 years - for bridging finance.
The economic and financial crisis which has overrun Europe has led to a very serious human and social crisis, and this will have consequences that are impossible to assess at the moment.
This mechanism must be put in place quickly, in January 2010.
Our debate today and our decisions are heard by many people who are suffering from inequality and by many young people who want to enter the working world and to whom we should just give a helping hand.
In addition, and this is the most important thing, it is vital to improve access to resources and, above all, to provide better information to citizens about all the projects to which they can apply. (PL) Madam President, hundreds of thousands of Europeans have felt the effects of the economic crisis in a way which has hit them hardest, for they have lost their jobs.
It is important that businesses also receive that help at a later stage, and not only at the setting up stage, because financial resources from this facility will bring benefits to the people who use them and to economies only when the businesses which are set up are able to survive in the market.
We should adopt a comprehensive approach to entrepreneurship, because these businesses provide jobs for our citizens not just during a crisis. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it would be very important for 2010, the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, to mark the birth of a new Community financial instrument, dedicated to microfinance, aimed at those who are disadvantaged in accessing the banking system but who have micro-enterprise plans.
It has become a new strategy of the United Nations and of the World Bank, but it has also been trialled with positive results in many countries, in many European Member States, including Italy, particularly for immigrants, women and young people.
I welcome the adoption of many amendments, which I will not go over again, but I would like to say that today we are asking not just for micro-credit resources, but we are also asking that micro-credit ... (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the last month, the Commission has presented its new EU Strategy 2020 as a continuation of the Lisbon goals and, among other things, has called for a more social Europe.
If we are striving to ensure lasting employment for Europe's citizens, then, particularly now in this difficult economic situation, we need to ensure that people can implement their own good ideas themselves in order to generate their own income.
Therefore, citizens need to be offered credit amounts that are as small as possible.
This European instrument will make it possible to grant micro-credits to small enterprises and to people who have lost their jobs and want to set up their own small businesses.
In this time of financial crisis, the most vulnerable people, especially the unemployed and young people, have been the worst affected.
The adoption of this new tool will make it easier for these people to access the capital required to set up or develop a business and make their dreams of entrepreneurship come true.
I hope that this new instrument to promote employment will be adopted as soon as possible and that an agreement will be reached between Parliament and the Council on making this tool, which is vital for our fellow citizens, and particularly so during this crisis period, a permanent one.
We should, as quickly as possible, increase recognition of the Progress programme and disseminate knowledge about it throughout the entire Union. (RO) The Microfinance Facility for Employment and Social Inclusion supports and must support the application of simple procedures so that those affected can benefit from this in an effective manner.
However, I believe that the microfinance facility should be focused more on people who have lost their jobs and are at a disadvantage in terms of access to the traditional credit market, and who want to set up or continue to develop their own micro-enterprise, including as a self-employed activity.
We need new money for new ideas. (LT) I believe that today, MEPs are completely unanimous in their opinion that this microfinance support facility is now very necessary.
Living and working conditions have changed fundamentally and the scourge of unemployment that has affected almost every state is forcing us to put forward certain proposals that certain support facilities should be amended.
When weighing up our decision concerning the use of Progress programme resources, we very carefully considered the consequences and came to the conclusion that although it was not an ideal solution, it was probably one of the possible solutions.
From this perspective, it is not a matter simply of transferring from one pot to another but of a new use for the resources.
The idea of micro-credit is based on a clear statement that the current financial system does not provide sufficient sources for small and very small enterprises in particular, in other words, that the system does not make use of the human capital that is present in people who belong to so-called vulnerable groups.
As I have already said, the idea is to make use of the human capital that is in people who would normally not be able to make use of their capital in this entrepreneurial way.
I must say to Elisabeth Schroeder that the fact that we are defending the Progress programme here conveys our conviction - which is a shared conviction that we are still willing to come to a compromise on this - that this programme must be implemented as soon as possible.
As Parliament will presumably vote for the EUR 25 million from its own resources for next year, and if Parliament votes for the entire amount, this will be sufficient for the Commission to sign the agreements which can facilitate the programme's launch.
I would also like to ask those of my fellow Members who supported this to agree for us not to take the entire resources from the Progress programme and to lobby their own governments as well for resources, given that these countries' governments are the members of the Commission.
The reallocation of the funds from the Progress programme would affect its specific guidelines for community action and send out an alarm signal concerning the social openness of a European executive, which has been extremely reluctant until now, unfortunately, in terms of displaying sufficient social involvement.
The fact that one young person in five in Europe does not have a job may have numerous repercussions at an economic and social level, as well as from a demographic and crime perspective.
In this context, we cannot ignore the serious level of unemployment among young people.
The European Microfinance Facility must provide useful assistance to the unemployed and vulnerable people who would like to set up or run micro-enterprises.
I believe that the European Microfinance Facility must have a separate credit line as the beneficiaries of this scheme are different to those for the Progress programme.
I also believe that the European Microfinance Facility should have a sufficiently large budget to make it really effective in achieving its objectives in terms of employment and social inclusion.
