European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights - Fundamental Rights Agency: activities under Title VI of the EU Treaty (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: by Mrs Kinga Gál, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights - C6-0288/2005 - and by Mrs Magda Kósáné Kovács, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision empowering the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights to pursue its activities in areas referred to in Title VI of the Treaty on European Union - C6-0289/2005 -.
The trialogue method, which has enabled us to come to an agreement on many occasions, is, in fact, a political solution: even though, from an institutional and legal point of view, we are sadly not in the presence of a formal codecision procedure, this political solution has enabled us thus far to develop an excellent working relationship.
I should like to thank the rapporteurs, Mrs Gál and Mrs Kósáné Kovács, for their useful collaboration.
The first point is therefore one of ensuring that the Council of Europe's powers are respected in full and that there is a willingness to cooperate.
These are countries that are negotiating, in some cases, or applying, in others, stabilisation and association agreements with the European Union, which involve among other things extremely sensitive material relating to the protection of fundamental rights.
Some Member States have expressed reservations in this regard, and the Council of Europe has voiced strong concerns, which it is my duty to report.
From the outset, the Commission - and I myself - have been in favour of the strategy - which this Parliament also considers to be the best - of including this topic in the remit of the agency in question.
Personally, I believe that these problems can be overcome and that, precisely on this issue, Parliament can play a very important political role.
The creation of the Agency for Fundamental Rights is surrounded by numerous debates.
The intention to create this agency has provoked and is still provoking debate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
The Council decision asking and authorising the Commission to submit a proposal for the creation of a Fundamental Rights Agency has now grown out of its infancy.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again, let me remind the House that the origins of today's debate can be traced back to a Council decision of December 2004.
Nobody here in this House wants to see operational structures duplicated, and we have all reached a compromise to the effect that the agency's mandate should require it to concentrate on the protection of fundamental rights in the Member States, in candidate countries, and, finally, in countries with which we have stabilisation and association agreements.
Now we all know that the Council and Parliament agreed, in paragraph 47 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May of this year and relating to budgetary discipline and sound financial management agreed by them and the Commission, that the Council and Parliament would be required to discuss the funding arrangements of the new agencies and then come to an agreement on them.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, further to what Mrs Haug has said, perhaps I might, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, make a number of fundamental observations relating to the agencies.
I do not know whether you are familiar with all of them and know where they are to be found, but they now employ over 2 300 people, and, if you tot up the costs, you will see that these are probably now about to go over the billion mark.
It may well be that some of them - perhaps even many of them - are superfluous.
What I am calling for is a pause for reflection and a review of the existing 16 agencies in terms of their performance and added value; I am also asking that consideration be given to closing down any agencies that have become surplus to requirements and no longer do anything useful, rather than constantly speculating about where we can open new ones.
I believe we will reach a compromise with the Council, because the Commission has shown that it is willing to try to initiate that compromise.
We have seen a rise not only in hate-speak but also in racist, xenophobic and homophobic violence, and the Council has done nothing when it comes to Articles 6 and 7.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I am delighted to congratulate Parliament's two rapporteurs, Mrs Gál and Mrs Kósáné Kovács, for the excellent work that they have done, and also to congratulate Commissioner Frattini for the forceful way in which he has supported this exercise.
That is one of the causes of the crisis of confidence in Europe.
Even today, there is no early warning system attached to Articles 6 and 7.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is right to extend the powers and activities of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia.
The establishment of the agency in question can therefore help not only to monitor these serious developments but also to vigorously combat them.
The problem of duplication does not exist, and even if we were to create some, I would not be worried, because I firmly believe that it can only help to improve the lives of European citizens if there are more agencies, more structures and more institutions that are responsible for protecting human rights.
I believe that granting Parliament a powerful role in the establishment of the Fundamental Rights Agency is a positive step, just as I believe that the work of Mrs Gál, Mrs Kósáné Kovács and Mr Frattini, who has reaffirmed his favourable position in this House, is important.
But what form will this Agency take and what will it do?
The proposed agency will unnecessarily duplicate the activities of the Council of Europe, the Human Rights Court and the OSCE.
In addition, it draws an unwelcome distinction between the 25 EU Member States and the other 21 European countries.
In my own country, the trade unions announced yesterday that they will track down all members who stood for my party, the Vlaams Belang, during the recent elections, with a view to kicking them out.
That is tantamount to a Berufsverbot in the heart of the Union.
The Charter has always been contradictory, in my view, to the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights, which also covers many countries outside the EU.
The articles are very different in each case.
I have raised in this House on a number of occasions the issue in 2003 of the suppression of the anti-Semitism report.
I do not want to end up in a situation where we have not only conflict between two agencies - one of the Council of Europe and one of our own - but also a lack of objectivity in the handling of cases which, undoubtedly, are always going to be sensitive.
We can certainly have our dreams and hopes for the improvement of human rights, not only in the European Union but particularly in those states, such as Russia and elsewhere, where they are clearly now being ignored.
I would like to thank Mrs Gál and Mrs Kósáné Kovács for their excellent proposals and for their efforts that have culminated in a universally acceptable compromise.
The prime responsibility of such an agency - and I am sorry to see that some of the previous speakers have now left - must be to protect fundamental rights in the Member States as a matter of priority.
The agency will have to ensure that the relevant European legislation is effectively transposed into the national law of the Member States and that it is properly applied.
Accordingly, we are backing these reports in their entirety, and we call on the Council to take heed of the position on this matter that was formulated in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and is endorsed by a large majority of Parliament. (DE) Mr President, let me make it perfectly clear, for Mrs Roure's benefit, that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats certainly does value and endorse the work Mrs Gál has done, and she is well aware of that fact, so nothing has changed in that respect.
I am right behind Mrs Gál and the Commissioner, but all my other remarks still stand - and underlined several times over. - (LT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has always reacted appropriately to violations of human rights.
Sadly, all this is happening in my own country - Lithuania.
The press tell us that the development of democracy has stopped in the ten new Member States.
The agency would need considerably stronger powers in order to become an effective instrument in monitoring and ensuring the rights of citizens.
After all, ensuring democracy and human rights is our duty and the reason the people of the Community elected us. (Applause) Mr President, I support the excellent work done, and I wish to thank Mrs Gál and Mrs Kósáné Kovács for it.
I think a Fundamental Rights Agency is very important for the European Union in order to protect, and ensure respect for, these rights throughout the Union.
We often speak in this Chamber about upholding human rights in third countries, yet rarely do we have the opportunity to strengthen the protection of human rights right here in our Member States.
Secondly, in view of the fact that, as far as this proposal is concerned, the agency is to be geared towards targets and assessments, I should like to ask how, when these areas of interest are being determined, it can be ensured that some Member States will not overlook politically awkward issues.
I believe this action is unconstitutional in at least some Member States.
We are not debating whether human rights are fundamental to our functioning within the European Union.
What we are debating is whether yet another agency within our structures, another agency which will cost tens of millions of euro, really will be an instrument which will contribute towards the observance of and respect for human rights not only within the Member States, but also in the countries with which we have relations.
It is the European Parliament we are all Members of that is the human rights agency for Europe.
For this reason the Agency should not restrict its activities to the Member States, where genuine problems concerning human rights are incomparably smaller than outside its borders, particularly as each Member State has its own institutions to ensure respect for fundamental rights and human rights.
It is important for the activities of this Agency to make allowance for the Council of Europe's range of activities in order to avoid overlap and achieve synergy in collaboration between the two organisations. (FI) Mr President, the Council of Europe is Europe's most important human rights agency, and will remain so even after this agency has been established.
The Council of Europe has wide-ranging supervisory and monitoring rights.
The agency under discussion will be completely different.
The task of the agency will not be to monitor Member States but to provide them and the Union's institutions with information and expertise.
It is nevertheless important that this kind of independent agency for fundamental human rights, the Human Rights Agency, should be set up in the EU.
Moreover, in the long term, the EU must also make up for its shortcomings in the sense that it does not intervene when Member States are in breach of human rights.
There are agreements in the Council of Europe about the level of human rights to be guaranteed in Europe at least.
The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is binding upon 47 Member States, 20 states more, therefore, than the 27 that will belong to the European Union from 2007.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights from 2000 is the largest common denominator of existing provisions from national constitutions and that European Convention.
This Charter was later included in the draft for a constitution as Chapter II.
This week is even better: an agency for fundamental rights has been conceived to ensure that Member States comply with the Charter.
I am therefore in favour of the proposal to extend the powers of the new Fundamental Rights Agency to include the 'third pillar', and thus intergovernmental cooperation in police, judicial, immigration and terrorist matters, since these sectors are becoming more and more closely associated with Europeans' everyday lives, and consequently with respect for the fundamental rights guaranteed by our Treaties.
I also support the approach presented by this Parliament to encourage dialogue with civil society and to cooperate with all of those bodies, especially non-governmental ones, that both at local and at national and European levels do a great deal to help improve the human rights situation within the European Union. (DE) Mr President, human rights are a great good, one that we have to work to defend throughout the world, and, aware though I am of the sad events in Russia, there is still much for us to do at home.
Since we do not believe that it is sufficient to make little more than cursory mention to them, we cannot say often enough, in any discussion of them, that what we need above all is our own comprehensive catalogue of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the form of binding European law.
The agency we are discussing today can, may and should, have exclusively ancillary functions, and it is in this respect that I have my doubts about this document.
By the way, are the democratic and legal structures in our Member States really as much at risk as some speakers today have claimed?
Mrs Gál has our wholehearted backing in the work she has done and is doing; the preparatory steps she has taken in this area are good and important.
There will be some delegations who vote against the report for different reasons, mainly questioning the role of the agencies in general, but the PPE-DE Group is well aware of the need to protect fundamental rights.
But let me underline the fact that there is a Council decision to establish a Fundamental Rights Agency from 2004 extending the mandate of the existing European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia.
rapporteur. - (HU) This may be unusual, but in my first sentence, I would like to thank Mrs Gál for her cooperation.
The very useful and effective collaboration that has evolved between the two parliamentary groups within the committee is primarily her doing.
In fact, we are always prepared to cooperate in improving the efficiency of our budgetary spending.
I have heard it said that the agency will cost EUR 150 million.
The agency, which is the natural successor of the Vienna Monitoring Centre, which employs 40 people, will have 50 officials in 2007, an increase of just 10 employees.
Ladies and gentlemen, 50 officials correspond to the staff of a small European municipality of 10 000 or 15 000 inhabitants.
I want to reassure Mr Rack: we will continue to carry out our duties, which in this field are not bureaucratic duties but, rather, political support for the work of Parliament and the Council.
The Council of Europe will continue to carry out its own work.
The agency will be responsible for monitoring respect for fundamental rights on the basis of Community law whereas, as you well know, the Council of Europe does not have competence in the field of human rights under Community legislation.
If I make reference to political groups and the judiciary in Europe, it is because I believe that they too must wish - and I am sure that they do - for transparency in the protection of fundamental rights in their activities.
The debate is closed.
