Ricardo de León Regil was a doctor whose work was widely recognised and valued.
The people of Guatemala, like other peoples in Latin America, have been tragically tried by foreign intervention and exploitation by the local oligarchy.
The fact that we have two places of work is already absurd; for the Strasbourg site then to be completely closed to any possibility of work outside part-sessions for people who are not necessarily European Union employees, people officially registered as assistants, seems to me to be excessively bureaucratic.
I would ask you, Mr President, to do something about this kind of rule which has been established and get it changed. &#160;&#160; Mr Cappato, it is probably too early in the morning to start me on the subject of the two places of work, but concerning the specific request you make, I will ask the services today to make contact with you to try to examine the details of the case.
In consultation with you, we will endeavour to come to an appropriate solution that complies with the Rules of Procedure.(1) &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements – progress report on the Intergovernmental Conference including budgetary aspects.
This is important for this Parliament, not for corporate reasons.
I feel I must begin by reiterating that the overall approach of the Italian Presidency remains that which my government has expressed many times in this House and in the context of the IGC itself.
Periodic meetings with Parliament and with representatives of the national parliaments, as well as requests arriving from various European civil society structures, are confirmation of this conviction.
Some Member States within the Intergovernmental Conference seem, at times, to want to take a different direction and to be seeking to reopen the debate on many aspects of the Convention’s draft.
Nevertheless, no Member State has called into question the objective –&#160;which is also an imperative political need –&#160;of bringing the Intergovernmental Conference to a successful conclusion within the timeframe suggested at Thessaloniki and confirmed at Brussels in October by our Heads of State and Government.
During yesterday's meeting, we debated, in particular, the role of the Union Foreign Minister and the issue of the revision of the Constitutional Treaty, taking note as well of a number of recommendations from the Danish government concerning the protocol relating to the opt-out clauses by which that country benefits with regard to Justice and Home Affairs.
The first point had already been addressed in previous meetings of the IGC.
The Presidency decided, therefore, to present a number of specific proposals based on the following principles: preserving the ‘double-hat’ formula devised by the Convention, with the clarification that the independence of the Commission Vice-President/Foreign Minister concerns the aspects associated with their Commission responsibilities and does not concern Council activities (for example, implementation of the common foreign and security policy and the Presidency of the General Affairs and External Relations Council); specifying the implications for the Foreign Minister in the event that the European Parliament were to adopt a motion of censure against the Commission; laying down explicitly that the President of the Commission cannot call for the resignation of the Vice-President/Foreign Minister without the agreement of the European Council; strengthening the provision giving the Vice-President/Foreign Minister the responsibility of ensuring consistency between the CFSP and the Union's external relations.
The presentationof these points –&#160;fully in keeping with the approach defined by the Convention –&#160;was welcomed by many Member States.
Clearly, a definitive agreement on the duties of the future Foreign Minister cannot be taken out of the context of the agreement on the overall future institutional framework of the Union.
This is a matter to which we will return in the context of the Ministerial Conclave of 28-29 November and, subsequently, in the concluding session of the IGC at the level of Heads of State and Government.
The solution envisaged by the Convention for future revision of the Constitutional Treaty is based on two fundamental principles: the need for unanimous adoption and ratification for the formal revision of all the constitutional provisions, and the existence of , both general and specific, that, in clearly defined sectors, allow voting rules to be changed, to make the transition from unanimous to qualified majority voting, or the legislative procedure to be changed, moving from special to ordinary, which ensures absolute parity between the Council and the European Parliament, subject to the common agreement of all Member States in the European Council, consultation of the European Parliament and prior notification of the national parliaments.
The Presidency has proposed some adjustments to these mechanisms defined by the Convention, in order both to increase the involvement of the national parliaments in the process of activating the escalator clauses and to confirm the option of making the procedure for revising the Constitutional text less unwieldy with regard to a limited number of specific sections of the third part of the Constitutional Treaty.
Indeed, as Parliament has rightly pointed out, the procedure laid down by the Convention seems excessively rigid and is in danger of making the enlarged Union incapable of updating its own constitutional regulations even where minor provisions are concerned.
Nevertheless, we must persevere in our efforts to find common ground for an agreement which, taking the Convention as a starting point, reconciles the need for timely, effective involvement of the parliaments, essential for democratic legitimacy in a Union of States and citizens governed by the rule of the law, with the need to prevent rigidity in revision procedures that could impede the future development of a Union which now has a large number of Members.
In the course of yesterday's meeting, the Danish Foreign Minister drew the Conference's attention to the question of the Protocol governing the participation of Denmark in the Union's Justice and Home Affairs activities.
Indeed, the new structure of the Constitutional Treaty –&#160;which leaves behind the dysfunctional, outdated pillar structure –&#160;requires the revision of this Protocol, which was drawn up when judicial cooperation in criminal and police matters was still subject to intergovernmental procedures.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the eve of the decisive phase of the negotiations underway in the Intergovernmental Conference.
In the forthcoming Naples Conclave, the Presidency will be presenting the text of the draft Constitutional Treaty reviewed by the group led by the Council’s Legal Service with the input of all the Member States, the European Parliament and the Commission.
Again in Naples, the Presidency will submit a comprehensive proposal on the points which are still causing dispute in the constitutional negotiations in an effort to bring the positions of the Member States closer together.
I would like to stress here, on behalf of my government, our determination to avoid watered-down compromises and to seek high-minded, noble solutions which are worthy of the democratic, open and transparent dialogue which took place in the Convention.
It is, of course, normal for the shape of a genuine compromise not to emerge until fairly late on in an intergovernmental conference, but what is not normal is for us to have an Intergovernmental Conference at which every meeting throws up more questions than it answers.
The Commission totally shares the view often heard in public debate that the very success of the Intergovernmental Conference is now at stake.
The IGC is now moving into a crucial phase, and one thing is quite clear: we need to prevent the overall compromise worked out by the Convention from being damaged in a tug of war between the interests of individual Member States, and we need to protect the institutional balance arrived at over 16 months of debate.
We need to be fully aware that we cannot steer a course towards a summit at which the Heads of State and Government once again sit together night after night nitpicking over the figures, only to achieve a result that they themselves find shocking.
The enlargement process will be completed by 1&#160;May 2004, and by then we need to have reached political agreement on how we are to work together.
As regards the work now ahead of us, as the Commission sees it the main issue is to maintain and defend the considerable progress represented by the draft Constitutional Treaty.
In our view, the key progress made relates to the double majority, the introduction of the 50/60 rule, the extension of the use of majority voting, and giving the European Parliament a stronger role in the legislative process.
A Foreign Minister with, as it were, guest status within the Commission cannot play the required role here.
The finely balanced outcome of the Convention is also reflected in the three components of the Union's finances: own resources, multiannual financial framework, and the annual budget process.
The Italian Presidency referred to a very important point that I would like to specifically support, namely the simplified treaty amendment procedure.
Finally, I would like to make one more comment about the political difficulties we will face if the Intergovernmental Conference reaches a successful conclusion, something we all hope for and support.
We will then find ourselves in a situation in which a very far-reaching, very complicated and very fundamental treaty will have to be ratified in 25 Member States, and will have to overcome the hurdle of a referendum in a good many Member States.
I would also like to ask honourable Members to have some sympathy for the position of the new Member States in the Intergovernmental Conference, a position that sometimes attracts criticism.
I hope you will understand that it has not been all that easy for the governments and parliaments of the new Member States, just a few weeks after successful referenda on membership of the European Union, with referendum campaigns based on the Treaty of Nice, to have to explain to their electorate now that the basic principles of their accession to the European Union are about to change again.
In saying that, I have the interests of my Polish friends in particular at heart, as they are adopting a very robust position on majority voting.
It seems to me that there has been a misunderstanding during the public debate in Poland, to the effect that what is at stake is the relative importance of the individual Member States.
The new arrangements are based on the principle that all the Member States are equal in status.
A decision is only valid if it is supported by a majority of the Member States, which means that each and every Member State has the same rights, and that Poland has the same rights as all the others.
The second factor – the concept that this majority must also represent a majority of the population of the Union – provides the democratic legitimacy needed for such a process.
The larger we become, the greater our responsibility will be, and the more important the substance of the decisions we have to take, the more necessary democratic legitimacy will be.
Finally, I would like to say that in reaching a compromise it will ultimately have to be taken into account that this draft Constitutional Treaty has to be ratified in 25 countries.
I would like to reassure this House that the Commission backs Parliament when it comes to translating the essential architecture and balance of the draft Constitutional Treaty into reality, and to achieving the correct relationship between the Community method and the sovereignty of the Member States, and between action at national level and the democratic legitimacy of the Community institutions.
The Convention's draft points in the right direction.
The Commission will do everything in its power to make sure that this process is pursued to its conclusion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe we are all happy with the quality of this Parliament’s delegation to the Convention’s contribution.
Today, our only points of contact are our two representatives within the Intergovernmental Conference.
I took that information to the Conference of Presidents.
I underline 'on behalf of Parliament'. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think that yesterday's meeting made it clear that agreement by December is achievable.
We should therefore encourage the Italian Presidency to maintain its present course and to stick as closely as possible to the text produced by the Convention, because that text represents a balance that would be hard to replicate.
The same also very much applies to the document to be presented in the ministerial conclave next week.
However, this House, too, has quite rightly taken a number of decisions this week about European budgetary rights, as you have pointed out, Mr&#160;President.
In both cases – as regards the Legislative Council, which is to prevent any transparency and allow the national bureaucrats to carry on working as before, and as regards undermining Parliament's rights in relation to the budget – I am reminded of a series of films, the second of which is called "The Empire Strikes Back".
In the third film in the series, good triumphs over evil, so there is a good chance that we can avert this danger.
Then there are the so-called questions of power: voting rights in the Council, the composition of, and voting rights in, the Commission, and associated issues around the composition of the European Parliament.
However, there are a few issues we need to keep in mind, such as whether the threshold should be raised from 60 to 66, and other issues relating to the Commission.
The Foreign Minister would wear three hats: Member of the Commission, High Representative of the Council and President of the Council.
The Foreign Minister must also preside over the Council of Foreign Ministers, because only in that way can we simultaneously achieve coherence and continuity, and because only then will it really make sense to create this position in this way.
However, we should remember something that was considered in the Convention: a review clause with opening and at the same time a secession clause.
Furthermore, we must remember the governments that were present and participated in the Convention.
The problem is that they have now locked the doors and left Parliament and the Commission outside.
We expect there to be progress and improvements – we agree on that – and our priorities are: firstly, that the binding nature of the Charter of Fundamental Rights should not be called into question; that the secular nature of European integration is a founding principle, and, in this regard, we believe that the text of the Constitution is absolutely correct and must not be modified.
We also believe that the legislative powers, not only of Parliament but also of the Council, must not be weakened in the legislative field or in the budgetary field, and we believe that the legislative Council must be maintained.
Mr President, I will end by mentioning a topical issue, the issue of enlargement.
I would agree with the comments of Commissioner Verheugen: I would say to our current members, because they are already here, that we voted for the Treaty of Nice in Parliament because we wanted enlargement, not because we liked the Treaty.
I believe, Mr President, that that message should be made absolutely clear to the Conference.
This Parliament has acted with responsibility when given responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you for stealing one of the points I was just about to make.
The Council presidency has confirmed its intention of presenting a global compromise before the 'conclave' meeting in Naples.
The great patriotic questions that so obsess some of our Member States, such as a percentage point here or there on their voting weights in the Council, can only be resolved at 4 a.m.
Yesterday several of them challenged the famous clause, which permits the steady development of the Constitution and of a decrease in the number of exceptional, non-normal decision-making procedures.
But there have been many previous examples of this approach in previous and existing Treaties.
The presidency is quite right in standing firm on this issue and the issue of the Foreign Minister and defending the proposals from the Convention.
However, there can be no trade-off between the two, the clause and the softer revision procedures needed for a Constitution to work well and fluently in practice. &#160;&#160; Apologies for stealing your lines in advance, Mr Duff! &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are approaching the term initially set for the work of the IGC.
The Presidency-in-Office of the Council has just reminded us of the main sticking points still remaining: the membership of the Commission, the duties of the Foreign Minister, the definition of the qualified majority in the Council, the role of the European Parliament in the budgetary procedure and the procedure for reviewing the Constitution.
For my part, I am in no way surprised nor disturbed by these conflicts.
They are the Union’s policies and, in particular, what I called on 3 September, on talking with Mr&#160;Giscard&#160;d'Estaing, the constitutionalisation of the liberal model or, to use another register, the establishment, in a fundamental law for the future Europe, of a genuine act of allegiance with NATO.
The Union only has significance for the citizens by means of the implementation of its policies.
It is not me who says this; it is the Commission, in its communication of 17 September on the Constitution.
In certain countries, such as France, the debate, which did not exist until 3 September, when we raised right here the problem of the hidden face of the draft Constitution –&#160;which you have mentioned, Mr President – has continued to spread and deepen ever since.
I much prefer a rather disordered response, though showing generosity and solidarity, and without any chance of things become worse.
We have little time left to react and give sense to the European project in the eyes of our citizens. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Convention was set up because the Heads of State and Government themselves had failed to make the European Union more democratic, more transparent and more efficient.
National governments took part in the Convention’s public discussions and have rubberstamped the end result.
Either the ministers do not understand the implications of their proposal and are therefore not that intelligent, or else they are trying to fog this issue to such an extent that they need not give public account for destroying Parliament’s democratic right to reject the budget, a right that has obtained for almost thirty years.
They have been in place since 1988, but in the form of interinstitutional agreements.
Parliament can breach such an agreement at any time, and thus has an important means of power at its disposal.
Not only Parliament, but also our own ministers competent in all the different fields are at risk of falling victim to the undisguised takeover attempt on the part of the Finance Ministers.
I find it bizarre that these national ministers still have not caught on to this.
Needless to say the EU governments negotiating this new Treaty have individual concerns and reservations relating to certain aspects of that Treaty.
The negotiations focus on two central elements.
The first relates to institutional reform and the second to policy matters.
There is broad agreement on extending qualified-majority voting and codecision powers to a range of different policy matters in the domain of both the European Council and the European Parliament.
However, the European Union must be sensitive to the needs of individual Member States when it comes to foreign policy matters.
There are serious challenges facing the European Union in the field of justice and home affairs.
We need to cooperate more closely to combat organised crime and international terrorism.
I confess that I do not know how the Conference of Presidents takes its decisions, but the fact that this point, which does not seem to be secondary, had not been mentioned, seems to me to be regrettable in terms of the image of Parliament and of Europe in the years to come.
Having said that, I believe that in comparison, the Intergovernmental Conference is moving even further away from the concerns of the European citizens and becoming a kind of free-for-all on quotas of votes and seats, at the very same time that the European citizens are in the process – and this has not escaped you, Mr&#160;Wurtz mentioned it – of turning more directly against Europe and contesting the very foundations of European integration, as we have seen with this European social forum which I would personally have re-named ‘European Sovereigntist Forum’, given the debates which took place there.
Finally, we talk a lot about the , which are in fact dark tunnels, in which the last prerogatives of the national democracies are going to get lost.
I would, though, like to return to an incident which took place yesterday in order to demonstrate a little to this Parliament the extent to which it can appear schizophrenic from time to time.
Yesterday, Mr&#160;Prodi simply anticipated a decision which I believe to be regrettable, which consists of politicising the role of President of the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the meeting of Foreign Ministers of the IGC, held on 18 November, has in particular dealt with a very important problem which the Convention had never really discussed: the revision clauses of the draft European Constitution.
I would stress also that this third part contains essential provisions; that it has hardly been looked at by the Convention and that the Intergovernmental Conference looks likely to take the same route.
All of this demonstrates well that this huge ambition to rewrite all the Treaties in one go risks leading to the endorsement of contested policies without real democratic debate.
The Intergovernmental Conference is taking this approach, since it is likely to accept the Convention’s draft in its entirety, which does not deal with the real problem of democracy and which moves Europe further away from its people.
Firstly, the role of the European Parliament.
It would be a serious mistake to limit the role of the House which represents the peoples of the Union; I believe that the provisions of the text adopted by the Convention are appropriate and should not be altered.
I feel&#160;–&#160;I am absolutely convinced of this, and not because I am a strong supporter of the Church&#160;–&#160;that the preamble to the Constitution should include an explicit reference to Europe’s Judeao-Christian roots.
We must not deny a fundamental part of our history, we must not deny our deepest roots, we must not renounce the Europe of principles, we must not renounce this explicit reference, precisely because we want&#160;–&#160;and many countries understand this&#160;–&#160;secular institutions.
I can certainly confirm that my own group feels that way, particularly as regards the impact on one of the fundamental rights of a parliament in a democracy.
Discussions are taking place on budgetary rights, the essential right of any parliament, which represent the origins and the starting point of any process of democratisation: the right of Parliament, the directly elected representatives of the people, to make decisions on financial resources.
As regards expenditure, and this is the small step forward that we have identified, in accordance with the Convention's draft the final decision is to be taken by Parliament.
But we have never heard it before from a democratically elected government referring to a democratically elected parliament.
This is something new, and it really is intolerable if you take a look at the facts.
The Council is claiming an increase of 20.8% for itself, more than any other institution, in order to build up and enlarge its administration.
We do not need any coaching on how to manage the funds that Europe's citizens entrusted to us properly.
I would like to thank all those national governments that are supporting that.
But I warn all those who are toying with the idea of attacking this right that they are opening themselves up to accusations that they do not want to use the Constitution to extend democracy in Europe, that they do not want to strengthen or further democracy, but that they want to bypass it and undermine it, by depriving Parliament of one of its central rights. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Antonione, Commissioner, the democratic deficit in the EU is, in fact, often talked about.
Decisions are taken behind closed doors by a circle of ministers, without ourselves, as citizens, being guaranteed political influence via an open debate and without ministers being held directly responsible to the voters for the decisions they make.
That is the deficit that we in Parliament must make up, and Parliament’s influence on the budget and budget control are crucial in this area.
Parliament has voluntarily entered into multiannual agreements, and we can accept these agreements in future becoming law, but on condition that we are given influence over the financial estimates and, of course, on condition too that we are given influence over the agricultural budget.
Denmark’s point of departure is that the European Parliament must have greater, not less, influence over the budget.
It is a disgrace that people should want to undermine the power of the European Parliament in the budgetary field.
In this context, I am also extremely curious to see how difficulties in guaranteeing the principle that all Member States are equal will be overcome, especially as regards the composition and workings of the Commission, how the primacy of national constitutional law will be ensured and, to be specific, the fact that no Community law must provide a derogation from the constitutional law of the Member States.
I would furthermore be curious to see how we would overcome the understandable obstacle that raised its head recently in the clauses, as I had predicted it would and which comes as a breath of fresh air in terms of a general clause and, above all, when it also affects essential core issues of sovereignty.
Have a little more confidence in yourselves rather than continuing to try and produce more rules, extensions and derogations, a strategy which is typical of canon law, not of secular law or the kind of law which creates rules which all can follow, including in the customs of society in general. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking Commissioner Verheugen for his address.
I am very grateful to President Prodi, who has accepted that the Constitution amounts to a big change from the basic concept of nation states, a position confirmed by the German, Spanish and French Governments but denied by my own government.
We would like to see this group growing larger.
Nevertheless I share the concern expressed here by Commissioner Verheugen and also by you yourself, Mr&#160;President-in-Office.
The majority of ministers have not so far proved equal to the task before them.
There is no will to shape things in the Intergovernmental Conference, but rather a blocking mentality, and that cannot continue if we are to achieve a good result in December.
The ministers are in the process of making things that have been dealt with simply in the draft Constitutional Treaty complicated again and detracting from their clarity and simplicity.
The majority of governments do not understand that a Union with over 25 Member States needs to have a new basis.
On the one hand, that Ecofin’s proposals represent a step backwards with regard to the current situation in accordance with the Treaty of Nice.
And on the other, that the financial perspectives must be accepted by the European Parliament and that Ecofin's proposals simply establish a consultation with Parliament.
Democracy is also a way to manage disagreements and today the European Parliament has the final word on more than 60% of the annual budget in the event that no agreement is reached with the Council.
Ecofin’s proposals destroy the balance achieved in the Convention, and the European Parliament, knowing this, accepted a formalisation of the financial perspectives in the Constitution, restricting its own budgetary powers, because its power to reject the multiannual framework and to be able to decide against the Council's position by a very high majority of its Members, in the event of a disagreement in relation to the annual budgetary procedure, was recognised.
Ecofin's proposal to adopt the lowest quantity proposed in the event of there being no agreement removes any incentive to reach agreement.
My political group had great difficulties and held many discussions in relation to accepting the Convention's final proposal in the field of finances.
I am not saying that the Intergovernmental Conference should just have blindly approved the Convention’s draft, as, moreover, the Heads of State and Government were wise to do in the case of the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights; I am saying that the Intergovernmental Conference should purely have checked for shortcomings and contradictions in the Convention’s draft, as it should be doing now, and discussed how to overcome them.
What is at stake here is not only effectiveness and transparency, but also greater parliamentarianism, accountability and accessibility for the public.
On this issue, I also believe that the agreements whereby the final decision on own resources is taken by the Member States, whereby the Council decides on the multiannual budget framework after consulting and gaining the approval of Parliament, and this House has the final say on the annual budget plan, all that is ultimately a compromise.
That is why I am counting at this point on the presidency adopting a pro-European position, and to take on the faint hearts and the backward-looking members of the Council in order to achieve a satisfactory solution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since I am in agreement with the comments made by Members from my group and several other groups, I wished to use my one minute of this interesting debate to draw attention, like Commissioners Vitorino and Barnier, to a specific issue: the risk of returning to unanimity on such a sensitive issue as judicial and police cooperation on criminal matters.
We must show courage in order to offer the citizens an area of security which is also an area that defends freedom. &#160;&#160; MrPresident, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps it is a happy coincidence that the final word from Parliament today will be heard on the content of the Constitution for social Europe.
One of the major steps taken in the draft constitution drafted by the Convention on the future of Europe were the provisions on the social face of Europe, for social Europe.
Because the peoples of Europe are much more interested, I believe, in the announcement of the objective of full employment, in strengthening social dialogue and in reinforcing the legal basis for public utility companies or for public health, than in whether there will be 13 or 23 Commissioners or if Europe will have 1 or 2 ministers for foreign affairs.
The Intergovernmental Conference will need to respect the Convention's text.
As regards the specific issues, quite frankly, I believe that today's speeches have retraced our debate of last week, so there have been no new developments and I can only reiterate in exactly the same way some points upon which I have already given my response.
The Italian Presidency does not accept any intervention from Ecofin –&#160;to be quite clear and specific on an issue that you have raised –&#160;since it believes that no Council, not even Ecofin, is entitled to present amendments.
If a representative of the Intergovernmental Conference wishes to table proposals which might also emerge from the Ecofin debate, it will do so on behalf of the government that it represents but not on behalf of Ecofin.
As regards our commitment to safeguarding the fundamental role of the European Parliament, and of parliaments in general, I continue to stress that we believe this to be an essential point.
On a more general note, as regards the issue of whether proposals made by governments can be discussed, I have to say that it is difficult to imagine the Presidency totally and absolutely refusing to consider proposals that governments may wish to present.
Moreover, it is not as if your representatives –&#160;the representatives of the European Parliament to the Intergovernmental Conference&#160;–&#160;acted any differently from the Presidency; it is not as if the two representatives had got up and walked out because some governments wanted to reopen the debate on issues already discussed in the Convention.
I believe that she made a very important point during the debate when she said that it is now also necessary to demonstrate that enlargement is not a problem for deepening.
It is not as if any major new issues have emerged in the debate over the last few months.
If the Constitutional Treaty failed, it would create whole new political scenarios in the European Union, which could even have a disintegrating effect within the Union.
The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The representatives of the European Council and of the European Commission have not concealed their concern about the disagreements which have emerged at the Intergovernmental Conference within the framework of the discussion about the new 'Constitutional Treaty' of the ΕU.
In other words, everyone is fighting their own corner.
Indeed, within the overall external relations framework of the new enlarged Union, relations with the countries of the southern shore of the Mediterranean continue to occupy a significant place and act as a firm point of reference.
From the outset, the Barcelona Process has provided a means of measuring the state of health of these relations, often serving as a metronome regulating the pace of the dialogue between the two shores of our common sea and acting, therefore, as a force regulating –&#160;and, above all, driving forward –&#160;the dialogue itself, insofar as this has been possible in view of the events in the Middle East over the years.
This seems even more necessary today, when the Union enlargement process on the one hand and the situation in the Middle East on the other are giving rise to a strong demand for Europe on the part of the countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean.
The European Union has, in the meantime, already given an initial vigorous and cohesive response by launching the new neighbourhood policy, in which it sets out a new unified concept for its external relations with neighbouring areas.
In this perspective, the outcome that we, the 35 Euro-Mediterranean Partners, hope to see emerge from the Naples Conference is an enhancement of the Barcelona Process through three new instruments designed to bring the Partnership into closer contact with the keenest aspirations of civil societies in the region.
I am referring, firstly –&#160;and I am particularly pleased to be able to do so here today –&#160;to the creation of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, which will be given a place with consultative functions in the Barcelona Process; secondly, to the creation of the Euro-Mediterranean Foundation for Dialogue between Cultures and Civilisations; and, lastly, to the new institutional and operational structure that the Partners will be deciding on for the future of the Euro-Mediterranean Investment and Partnership Fund, which was set up within the EIB just over a year ago to promote investment in the private sector –&#160;in particular small and medium-sized enterprises –&#160;in the countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean.
We are certain that these measures would give the Partnership a powerful boost, allowing it to forge ahead independently and giving it a capacity for action generated by the demands of civil society as conveyed through the parliamentary channel, by virtuous circles nourished by the mutual respect that synergistic interaction between cultures can instil, and, lastly, by a financial institution that is increasingly in tune with the specific needs of beneficiary countries and endowed with a wider and better organised range of instruments through which to act.
In this respect, the formal inclusion, with consultative functions, of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly in the Partnership framework is vitally important, since it is the Assembly, first and foremost, that will be entrusted with the task of bringing the Barcelona Process closer to public opinion and thus making good the participation deficit and, even more importantly, the communication deficit that the Barcelona Process has undoubtedly been labouring under thus far.
The social and cultural agenda will, inevitably, largely be taken up by the debate on the Foundation but it will certainly provide an opportunity to assess the progress made since the launch of the regional programme on Good Governance and the Strengthening of the Rule of Law, which is a crucial factor for the future of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation in the fields of justice, policing and immigration policy.
Finally, the Conference will record the conclusions of the meeting of the bodies representing the social forces which has just taken place in Malta under the auspices of the European Social Committee.
It is the view of the Commission that the Assembly will effectively promote respect for human rights and democratisation in the region.
The communication which the Commission published on this subject in May was welcomed by Parliament and the Council.
The Euro-Mediterranean area is one of the regions of the world that are probably the most seriously affected by the risks of the twenty-first century, be it terrorism, trafficking in human beings, drugs, the problems of globalisation or environmental hazards.
Solidarity by helping our partners to face these challenges in a way that is compatible with respect for human rights and democratic principles.
That is why political reforms must be an essential part of the plan.
Let me say in conclusion that intercultural dialogue must play a special part in our entire concept.
It will make an important contribution to raising the profile of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership and increasing its visibility and importance for the population. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the transformation of the Parliamentary Forum on the agenda for the Naples Summit on 2 and 3 December into a Parliamentary Assembly will be an extremely significant political development, as the House has seen from the ACP experience.
The Parliamentary Assembly is an instrument for political cooperation which both reminds the Member States of their responsibilities precisely through parliamentary measures and gathers strength for new measures.
Firstly, a programme for supportive cooperation between the two shores of the Mediterranean in the fight against terrorism and international organised crime.
In my opinion, the Agadir agreementis an important means of creating a genuine free trade area.
I believe that, alongside our work on these goals, we must reassess the Euro-Mediterranean policy in the context of the more general neighbourhood policy, which, at last, places the eastern dimension on the same level as the southern dimension.
In doing this, I believe it is possible to launch democratisation processes with due regard for human rights in these countries too, as called for by the fundamental United Nations development agency report, which we should take as our guide in relations with these countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would firstly welcome the policy of good neighbourly relations proposed by the European Commission and the report which will be discussed this afternoon, as a basic instrument for Euro-Mediterranean cooperation.
I am referring to Libya, where I recently had the opportunity to chair a delegation from my parliamentary group.
The United Nations Security Council's sanctions on Libya were lifted in September and work is ongoing on resolving the issues relating to the compensation for the UTA aircraft and the attack on the discotheque in Berlin in 1989.
Libya is present as an observer in the Barcelona Mediterranean process and has not been integrated into it.
A glimmer of hope has been offered by the so-called Geneva accords, negotiated over more than two years by the delegations led by Yossi Beilin and Yasser Abed Rabbo.
It would be appropriate for the Foreign Ministers meeting in Naples to offer their support for this plan which demonstrates that there are interlocutors on both sides seeking a fair peace, in contrast to what the politicians, in particular the Sharon Government, ceaselessly demonstrate.
With regard to the conference’s tasks in general, the fact that Europe is concerning itself with its future neighbours, particularly in the south, is a good thing, as is the announcement of a Foundation for dialogue between cultures, the creation of which still depends on the allocation of financial resources.
It is not certain that the new neighbourhood policy is sufficient to instil ‘a new dynamism into the Barcelona process’, since the approach of simply integrating these countries into the great European market means imposing liberal formulae on them, without taking account of their specific characteristics or the serious economic and social problems they are facing.
As for the call to turn to the private sector, it still falls far short of the needs of the Mediterranean countries.
The living conditions of the peoples of North Africa have not improved in any respect.
This human tragedy will only come to an end if we deploy all the necessary means to help these people to establish their own social, cultural and economic development.
Here, excessive liberalism is quite simply murderous, and I am not sure that the creation of a free trade area will be the solution to these evils.
Please allow me to mention here the issue of the Western Sahara.
The legitimate representatives of the Saharan people now accept the new draft solution advocated by Kofi Annan’s special envoy.
We must demand that Morocco accept this plan before anything else. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe we can say with satisfaction that the European Parliament has worked to ensure that Euro-Mediterranean relations are a priority with the European Union’s foreign policy.
This very afternoon we are going to deal with the strategy for a broader Europe – the Napoletano report – in which we point out the strategic importance of a more solid and global relationship with our Mediterranean partners and neighbours.
Within this context, the Euro-Mediterranean Foreign Ministers Conference in Naples is going to conclude an objective which has long been pursued by this Parliament, which is the transformation of the Euro-Mediterranean Forum into a genuine assembly.
From now on, I believe we must make progress in four areas.
Secondly, on the definitive implementation of a Euro-Mediterranean cultural foundation, and I hope that this conference will adopt specific decisions in this area.
Thirdly, we must combat human-trafficking mafias more decisively, and this involves more active participation in the fight against illegal immigration.
Finally, Mr President, I believe we must not forget countries which are not part of the Barcelona process – I am referring to Libya and Mauritania.
Parliament’s delegation for relations with the Maghreb is going to make them a priority in its efforts over the coming weeks and months.
I will end, Mr President, by saying that I believe there are reasons for us to be happy with this impulse, which will be given institutional shape in Naples, and which will allow us to work on new initiatives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe that this debate must be seen in relation to the one we are going to hold this afternoon on relations with the new neighbouring countries.
There is a field in which we could make this effort, if we are able to work on it in all its complexity: movement of people and immigration.
We should try to make immigration a factor which strengthens relations and the stability between countries of origin and destination.
We should create positive dynamics which could have an effect in economic terms, introducing concepts such as ‘mobility’, which is more suited to our times than the rigid and bureaucratic rules with which we intend to manage immigration.
We should reintroduce onto our agenda the concept of ‘co-development’.
A new agenda, based on the proposals of the Commission and the Greek and Italian Presidencies before Thessaloniki, in relation to immigration and the countries in which it originates, could strengthen the human and cultural pillar of the Conference.
Furthermore, so that the people who live amongst us can be a factor in stability and the promotion of our values, we must also work on our integration policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place the emphasis on an important aspect of the preparation of the Naples meeting and I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Italian Presidency on having paid particular attention, as is very logical, to the Mediterranean dimension of the European Union’s policy.
From the Middle East conflict to the insoluble situation in the Sahara, from the total lack of control of immigration, with the almost daily tragedies on the coasts of Andalusia and the Canary Islands, to which we can add human trafficking, drug trafficking and fanatical terrorism, which is not only being endured by some of our neighbouring countries, but which is using all its resources to also transfer itself to our European territory, these are some of the serious issues which we should be concerned about, very concerned about, at the Naples conference.
We have common problems and also mutual responsibilities and each party must take on those responsibilities.
Immigration, for example, can only be resolved if, as called for in the Euro-Mediterranean Forum in Bari in June 2002, the countries of origin and receiving countries take on joint responsibility for controlling migratory flows and combating the organised mafias which promote illegal immigration.
But the political and administrative structures of the Mediterranean third countries must behave transparently, and must respect human rights in order to promote easy and productive parliamentary and political dialogue such as that which must take place in the new assembly we are discussing today, so that this cooperation is effective, something which is unfortunately not the case in some of those countries, and I will not mention them by name, Mr President. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since the reunification of Europe is about to become a reality, even though, as we know, there is still much to do, we are witnessing a page of history being written.
To turn the Mediterranean into an integrated whole containing almost 900 million men and women is our challenge for the next 30 years.
In order to respond to this new challenge we need genuine ambition and instruments for dialogue.
This instrument for political dialogue, which we need, is the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, and the Naples Conference must enshrine its birth, because only political dialogue can forge a genuine balanced, in-depth and lasting partnership.
The free trade area and the credo ‘Everything but institutions’, which prevailed until now within the context of Euro-Mediterranean relations, have been left behind.
At political level, we must implement the future framework for Euro-Mediterranean relations, a free Union inspired by the Council of Europe, founded upon common objectives and shared values: common security, secularity, the rule of law and democracy.
At economic level, we must launch a genuine Marshall plan for the Mediterranean with a view to genuinely establishing this shared prosperity, which was already included in the Barcelona declaration. &#160;&#160; With an eye on the clock, Commissioner Verheugen has declined to speak again.
The reason is that the translations into various languages of paragraph 13, which will be incorporated into the report, arrived very late and the political groups wish to have the possibility of tabling amendments or calling for a separate vote.
In other words, we should proceed to vote on the report.
I cannot interrupt the vote for an explanation of this kind.
A significant part of Amendments&#160;Nos 11 and 12 has been withdrawn and does not form part of the so-called compromise package. &#160;&#160; .
The committee believes that batch control systems should be allowed as well as the individual control system proposed by the Commission.
The committee's proposal means that Member States will be able to adopt systems that are in keeping with their own sheep farming methods.
We agree on the need to improve traceability, but the issue dividing us is that harmonisation of the objective does not necessarily mean harmonisation of the method.
The strongest political signal we can give is that we should follow the unanimous vote in committee by a unanimous vote for the report this morning. &#160;&#160; – Very well, I infer from your statement Mr&#160;Adam, that this cancels any request for referral back to committee.
The tragic events with which the Israeli and Palestinian people are faced on a daily basis, make the resumption of dialogue between these two parties – a dialogue that the European Parliament has always encouraged – more necessary than ever.
This is why, and without wanting to go into detail about the conflict that has been affecting your region for too long, I hope that the meetings that you will have with Members of the European Parliament will be fruitful and that they will be able to contribute to better reciprocal information, so as to better bring about conditions, in which just and sustainable peace will finally be able to put an end to this interminable conflict that affects your region and which, day after day, causes the deaths of too many innocent victims amongst the Israeli and Palestinian populations.
They will resume immediately after the formal sitting.
I must therefore unfortunately distance myself from the outcome of the vote and ask my fellow Members to vote against the report. &#160;&#160; – Very good, we will take note of your declaration, Mr&#160;Liese. &#160;&#160; The Moderate Party’s delegation to the European Parliament has today voted in favour of the report on women's rights and EU international relations.
Trade boycotts generally harm vulnerable people in poor countries. &#160;&#160; The report basically focuses on the ACP countries, as a result of the Cotonou Agreement and on the countries of the Mediterranean, as a follow-up to the Barcelona Agreement.
These amendments to the SOLAS Convention and to part A of the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS Code) contains mandatory provisions that are open to differing interpretation and adaptation by the Member States.
Part B of this Code consists of recommendations, but the Commission proposes that some be made mandatory provisions.
Member States will only be able to adopt specific provisions on ports that only occasionally serve international traffic, although provision is made for a possible exemption from the obligation of security checks prior to entry into a port for ships engaged on a scheduled service within a Member State or between two or more Member States, and these must adopt a national plan to implement the provisions of the regulation.
The report furthermore establishes a single national authority responsible for the safety of vessels and of port facilities, it makes the Commission responsible for checks and assessments and entrusts the European Safe Seas Agency with the task of assisting the Commission in performing these duties. &#160;&#160; The Commission presented the proposal now before us in order to incorporate into Community law the provisions adopted by the General Assembly of the International Maritime Organisation, the definitive version of which was adopted in London (December 2002) by the International Diplomatic Conference of the Governments that are signatories to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS Convention of 1974).
In practice, the principles applied to air transport are transferred to maritime transport, with the Member States having to draw up national maritime security plans that lay down security standards and appoint a competent national authority, which will be the sole authority responsible in this field and will have the specific task of guaranteeing the security of vessels, by issuing certificates.
I share the rapporteur's concern about the financial implications of these safety measures and I support her call to the Commission to present a study of this matter.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; – Where security is concerned, there can be neither exemptions nor lax tolerance.
Maritime transport needs to be dissociated from the laws of maximum profit and another International Maritime Organisation created capable of respecting social needs, workers and the environment.
The loss of the oil tanker scarcely a year ago, together with its human, social and environmental consequences, remind us each day, from La Coruñato Calais, of these necessities.
My priority in this area is not the fight against terrorism but that against the maritime hooligans.
I have supported all the amendments aimed at including in the regulation the strengthening of security measures in Community ports, at covering all the personnel concerned, not only seafarers but also all professionals working on a casual basis in port areas, and at extending the scope of the regulation to include ships transporting containers, petroleum products and dangerous materials.
It would therefore be better if there were measures to combat the piracy of information networks and to combat theft of pensioners’ money. &#160;&#160; – The agency that the Council is preparing to put in place is charged with ‘network and information security’.
Certain elements of the aforesaid ‘business community’ will probably enjoy financial spin-offs from this matter, for the agency will call upon their services to deliver information security.
We obviously have nothing against better information security.
Since, however, the protection of business secrets in relations between private companies is not among our preoccupations, we have abstained from voting. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of this proposal.
Another action is special programmes and diagnostic tests in universities and higher education in general, so that watching out for cancer becomes a forced 'routine' from a young age. &#160;&#160; – Cancer is a terrible disease that affects millions of Europeans and other human beings on the planet.
This is an enormous burden, both in human terms, for cancer sufferers and their families, and in terms of the resources used in the diagnosis, treatment and care of this disease.
Consequently, the fight against cancer through the programme 'Europe against Cancer', set up in 1985, has been a long-standing European priority.
The Commission's document will allow Europe to take unified action against what is a widespread, cruel and socially destructive disease.
This is a terrible disease, which is one of the main causes of death, directly affects many citizens, and consequently also affects their families.
An indication of this is the overwhelming vote in plenary: 528 in favour and only 6 against.
I also wish to express my satisfaction at all the support obtained in the specialised Parliamentary committee for this proposal, specifically through the proposals for secondary prevention measures that facilitate early diagnosis and which, consequently, involve therapies that are less aggressive and more bearable.
We must therefore ensure that years of work are registered and monitored throughout a person’s life. &#160;&#160; This proposal for a regulation seeks to provide a response, in the current framework, to the need to record and trace the movements of sheep and goats in order to improve identification of affected animals in the event of an epidemic.
Although important, these measures do not resolve the problems facing our agricultural model.
What is needed, in particular, is to reduce the transport and specifically the export of living animals to the absolute minimum, to combat the disappearance of local slaughterhouses, to encourage local production and short distribution channels, to combat the policy of under-investment in veterinary inspection services and to take account of the problems arising from abolishing internal borders.
The report proposes some simplification of the system, such as extending deadlines, Community involvement in the future electronic identification system and Community funding of the total set-up costs for individualised identification systems.
Only in this way can we avoid seeing the number of producers leaving the sector increase. &#160;&#160; The proposal for a regulation sets out a system of individual and batch identification and for the species in question, providing an opportunity for using electronic identification.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; The report demonstrates the need for a common registration system for sheep and goats, using a database and similar to the systems that exist for cattle farming and pig farming.
I would therefore prefer the directive in question to address the movement of pensioner citizens as well as waste. &#160;&#160; – The shipment of waste is fundamental to the fight in which we, the developed countries, are engaged to maintain economic development and protect the environment.
That is certainly the case when it comes to intermediate waste sorting centres, banned because they are unable to monitor the precise destination and traceability of the waste in question. &#160;&#160; Although progress has been made since the last report, all the Member States were late in responding to the questionnaire (Portugal and Ireland by more than a year).
Progress has been made on drawing up waste management plans, although some countries do not have such plans or are not implementing them, and consequently various legal proceedings have been opened as a result of failure to comply with the directive.
Likewise, I commend the rapporteur for his excellent work on the matter.
Indeed, unless we prevent this deadly cargo from setting out on its journey, it will pass within a very short distance of the south-east coast of Ireland and my constituency of Leinster, Ireland.
I agree that there will be a certain administrative cost associated with implementing the new controls proposed by the Commission. &#160;&#160; I welcome this Commission proposal, which I believe meets the expectations of the citizens of the European Union both in terms of increasing levels of environmental protection, and as regards efforts for the treatment, recycling, recovery and transport of waste.
The Commission's proposals for funding for research activities, which are illegal in some Member States, are flying in the face of the subsidiarity principle, and that should not happen.
I have tabled amendments to state that we do not support EU funds being made available for embryonic stem cell research in Europe.
The European Parliament having expressed its views, this matter now moves into the domain of the Council of Ministers and the national governments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I also voted against the Liese report.
Many scientists have said that in the case of Alzheimer's adult stem cells are more reliable.
If Mr Ó Neachtain feels so strongly about this, let him resign from his party if his government will not vote against this in the Council of Ministers.
The Irish Government must vote against this!
I hope that today's vote means they will leave that aside and recognise that this is a proper matter for national competence in the first place, and that it is quite proper that we should use European funding to finance research which can help tackle very serious conditions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also voted against today’s proposal because I cannot support the use of common resources for purposes of research that is expressly prohibited in some Member States.
Finally, in view of the fact that, unlike adult stem cell research, there have still not been any unquestionably promising results in embryo research, I cannot understand why funding should be provided from the Sixth Framework Programme. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my voters do not want their tax money to be used to kill unborn human beings, even if, unlike in Germany, it is permitted for research purposes in many Member States.
Unfortunately, this was turned down by a tiny liberal left majority of this House and I must make it perfectly clear that that is probably the end of compromises in this matter.
This would discourage or simply prevent innovative research in this area confining scientists and researchers to using ageing supernumerary embryos which are not in the best condition and could even result in an increasing number of stem cells being consumed for this purpose.
The proposal is to fund research only in Member States where such funding is requested.
Research would only involve embryos created before June 2002 for medically assisted IVF treatment but now 'supernumerary' and which would otherwise be destroyed.
In the present state of research, only the use of adult stem cells offers hope.
It presents no ethical and technical problems, but does not unfortunately have enough financial resources at its disposal.
For all these reasons, I shall support the Gargani amendments, which I have co-signed. &#160;&#160; On matters involving the use of Community funds, but which affect areas that, in terms of their respective legality or illegality, fall within the sphere of national legislation and on which the Member States adopt differing responses, the European Union must refrain totally from providing funding.
By not respecting this guideline, the Commission proposal clearly breaches the principle of subsidiarity and I therefore voted against it.
As regards stem cells and the hopes for this research, I suggest that, without prejudice to what each Member State does with its own financial resources, all European funding for research must be channelled towards adult stem cells.
This does not raise ethical or legal problems and experiments on this type of cell have brought tangible results that are extremely encouraging, which is not the case with embryonic stem cells.
In the same spirit, I have voted in favour of Amendments 37 to 44, which were signed by myself and many other MEPs and which have been rejected.
In the final vote, I voted against the report as a whole.
It was, however, adopted by 298 votes in favour, 214 votes against and 21 abstentions.
Research into embryonic stem cells is incompatible with the Irish Constitution and banned by law in Germany, Austria and Portugal.
In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and in view of the big differences in the Member States’ legislation on research involving the use of human embryos, it should be up to each Member State to decide for itself whether it is to fund such research using national funds.
It is therefore unfair to those states that ban research into embryonic stem cells to compel their citizens to contribute to the EU’s common research budget for an activity that is illegal in their countries.
It is unacceptable for human life, whatever its age, to be treated as a commercial product, without regard to that life or the price paid by women in supplying the embryos.
It is deeply disturbing that the European Commission, supported by Members of this Parliament and certain Member State governments, including Ireland, have succeeded in imposing public funding of controversial and unethical research without proper public debate and without the opportunity for national parliaments to respond.
This proposal is against not only laws and constitutions, but also the conscience of millions of citizens.
Mr President, I will conclude, if I may, by saying that we need more presidents like you, for all the states of Europe need presidents called ‘Onesta’&#160;–&#160;if you will forgive the play on words&#160;–&#160;not just France. &#160;&#160; – My surname thanks you for that remark, Mr&#160;Fatuzzo. &#160;&#160; The report addresses basic aspects of the important issue of soil protection, which should be taken into consideration in future resolutions, but it will be hard to comply with the timetable that has been proposed.
Some targets, especially for Portugal, will be difficult to achieve, bearing in mind on the one hand, the reality of the Portuguese situation and, on the other, various scientific and technical issues, specifically the presentation by the Commission, before July&#160;2004, of a thematic strategy for soil protection that should define problems, qualitative and quantitativeobjectives and the means by which they can be achieved, timetables and general principles for evaluation and monitoring.
Presenting a strategy of this nature will require the cooperation of the Member States and, given the current state of actions being undertaken by the working groups set up for this purpose, it will be hard to achieve all the stated objectives in time.
By the same token, although there is a need to produce what is being called a ‘scientific soil catalogue’ – a need that has been felt by the various researchers and specialists in this area for a long time – and this must be supported, the proposed timetable nevertheless appears to be very limited.
The attempt to harmonise methods of soil analysis in order to obtain comparable data would be even more difficult.
I am voting in favour of this report, although I feel that the Commission has ridden roughshod over the principle of subsidiarity by proposing legislation on this matter.
There must be as much freedom of movement for European citizens as there is provided for in this directive for urban and industrial waste. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of this report, because I agree with the principle that when it comes to environmental matters, we must always try to raise stringency levels.
Data submitted by the Member States on the processing, recovery or recycling of waste must be more reliable and provided more promptly.
I agree in particular that the Member States should be instructed to draw up plans for waste management or for improving existing plans, primarily to promote measures designed to encourage the prevention or reduction of waste production.
I must, however, express my unhappiness at the general tone of the report when it recommends giving the Commission greater powers to punish and to levy taxes in environmental matters, calling for infringement proceedings to be initiated depending on the higher or lower quantity/quality of the data provided by the Member States.
The Villa Madama Summit gave the go-ahead for the practical implementation of the St Petersburg Declaration, where it lays down that European Union-Russia relations must be built around common spaces, to be created in the medium to long term within the framework of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement currently in force.
The main aim was to make further progress in respect of all the common spaces by making the best use of existing structures and tools with a view to enhancing strategic relations and driving forward the process of integrating the Russian Federation into Europe.
For the European Union, the Summit provided an opportunity to remind Moscow of our common commitment to tackling the current challenges and to discharging in a coordinated manner our shared responsibility for the environmental protection of the continent, and of the need to share information and work together to resolve the problems caused by climate change.
The meeting allowed the European Union and the Russian Federation to look at current global issues, including crisis situations and what are known as the frozen conflicts in the region.
The Italian Presidency, however, was concerned with keeping the main emphasis on the creation of the four common spaces and on the positive aspects of EU-Russia cooperation, and therefore focused on the major tangible achievements of the Summit, in particular a Joint Declaration on the CFSP and on cooperation in crisis management, the signing of the Agreement between Europol and the Russian Federation, the start of talks on the visa-free regime and the renewal of the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation.
Addressing himself to strategic considerations, President Putin expressed Moscow’s concerns at the short- and medium-term consequences of enlargement on both economic and trade relations and political relations between the Russian Federation and former Soviet Bloc countries&#160;–&#160;with particular reference to the Russian-speaking minorities in the Baltic states&#160;–&#160;in view of the extension of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement to the new Member States.
In reply to President Putin, we made it quite clear that the extension of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement is an obligation with which the Russian Federation must comply within the timeframe laid down and is an essential condition for strengthening its relations with the 25-Member State Europe.
The Summit also looked at the state of progress of the talks for the Russian Federation’s future membership of the WTO which, despite significant unresolved issues, both sides hope will be achieved before the end of 2004.
One of the key moments in the Summit was the ceremony of the signing of two agreements: the renewed Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation and the Europol-Russia Agreement on the exchange of strategic analyses and cooperation in police training, which is a tangible sign of the willingness of the Russian Federation to work alongside the European Union in the field of Justice and Home Affairs.
This consisted, on the one hand, of the Russians’ high expectations of a leap forward in their relations with the European Union, and, on the other, of the more rigid position adopted by the majority of Member States with regard to what they see as Moscow’s inadequate commitment to giving practical effect to the political pledges it has made.
Precisely because of its joint nature, being the result of a compromise, the Joint Declaration issued at the end of the Summit was achieved only after long, hard negotiations between the Russian Federation, on the one hand, and the Presidency, the Commission and the Secretariat on the other.
It thus represents the reconciliation of conflicting demands and is a sensitive compromise between the demands of many of the Member States, which had wanted explicit reference to be made to all the controversial issues, and the desire of the Russians for a very pared-down Declaration limited to highlighting the positive aspects of EU-Russia cooperation.
In respect of domestic developments in Russia, President Putin described the internal political and economic situation with reference also to the parliamentary elections next December and the presidential elections the following March, and in the light of the events connected with the affair.
He reiterated Russia’s clear intention to carry on with its privatisation programme and continue with the process of creating an independent judicial system and strengthening the public institutions.
In response to a specific request from the Presidency, President Putin illustrated the efforts that Moscow is making to begin political and institutional reconstruction in Chechnya by means of a referendum, amnesty and elections, and invited European representatives to visit the region.
For our part, we expressed our solidarity with Russia in the fight against Chechen terrorism as well as our support for a constitutional reform that encompasses ever-wider sections of the Chechen population that are not compromised by terrorism.
We renewed our appeal for all possible efforts to be made to speed up the release of Arjan Erkel, the representative who was abducted in the Caucasus in August 2002, and expressed the hope that an ECHO office would be opened in the area.
As regards the common economic space, the Summit sanctioned an agreed strategy that, we hope, will increase the level of interdependence between our economies in the coming years.
Dialogue on energy will continue, with the EU continuing to encourage progress in the Russian process of reforming the sector, in spite of the difficulties that Russia has in meeting the demands of Europe and the WTO, especially in relation to domestic prices and the privatisation of the energy sector.
This is a significant confirmation of our joint determination to press ahead with implementation of the plan of action against organised crime.
In the same context, we were also pleased to record the start of talks at a technical level on issues relating to the liberalisation of visa requirements, and took note of the willingness of both sides to introduce measures to relax the requirements for the issuing of visas under the existing legislation.
We also underscored the importance of rapid conclusion of the Readmission Agreement.
The meeting gave the European Union the opportunity to confirm its conviction that internal security is complementary to justice and respect for human rights, and that the strategic partnership between the European Union and Russia continues to be based on shared values such as democracy, the rule of law, human rights and freedom of expression.
As regards the common space of external security, the joint declaration on cooperation in the area of crisis management was a clear sign of the willingness of the European Union and the Russian Federation to work together in this area of vital interest for Europe.
I believe that this, too, should be recorded as one of the successes of the Rome Summit as regards the creation of a common space of external security.
The Russian proposal for closer cooperation in the field of civil protection and the management of natural disasters will be considered in more detail and converted at the earliest possible date into agreements that will enable the Union and Russia to cooperate and strengthen their joint response to future emergencies.
An initial step may be the establishment of direct contact between the competent bodies in Brussels and Moscow.
The possibility of similar cooperation is also to be explored by the relevant multilateral bodies in relation to weapons of mass destruction.
As regards the common space of research and education, the Summit opened a new chapter in bilateral cooperation, which had been bolstered by the Russian Federation’s joining the Bologna Process, an intergovernmental cooperation mechanism promoting agreements in the field of the mutual recognition of academic qualifications and the harmonisation of university curricula.
The Bologna Process paves the way for forms of effective intergovernmental cooperation in the field of the harmonisation of academic qualifications, which is an initial step towards the creation of a common space for university teaching.
Lastly, the question was explored of the functioning of the Permanent Partnership Council, with the aim of finding a solution based on the values of efficiency and flexibility that reconciles Russia’s desire for discussions of greater depth and reach in matters of common interest with the principle that the decision-making processes of the EU must remain autonomous.
As regards international issues, in addition to the debates imposed by current events in Iran, Iraq and the Middle East, on which the two sides are in broad agreement and essentially share the same goals, we also raised the question of the situation in Moldova, in particular, on account of a number of imminent deadlines relating to the Transnistria crisis in which the Russian Federation has a crucial role to play: the definitive withdrawal of Russian military hardware by 31 December, and progress in the five-way negotiations and in the work of the Constitutional Committee responsible for drafting a new model of state for Moldova.
We believe that Russia should honour its commitment punctually, without any further postponements.
Russia confirmed the undertaking to withdraw, but observed that, since the negotiations for the resolution of the Transnistria crisis had made little headway, further endeavours would be needed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I think I can say that the Rome Summit was not altogether easy but it was an important moment in the consolidation of our overall relationship with the Russian Federation and enabled us to make progress in the creation of the four common spaces.
Of course, the summit in many respects confirmed the complexity of relations between the European Union and Russia.
I think it is very important that the concept of the common economic space was given really concrete form at the summit and that the High Level Group was in fact able to make concrete proposals, such as the start of a common programme for the approximation of laws and facilitation of trade.
The Commission is very much in favour of Russia joining the WTO, not least in order to drive forward and consolidate economic reform in Russia.
The Commission welcomes that because it will encourage cooperation in fighting terrorism and organised crime.
There will be a joint declaration on cooperation in political and security matters.
We have also, however, seen that there are things that separate the European Union and Russia today and that there are subjects on which we need to intensify our efforts in order to make progress and arrive at common results.
It is quite clear that we need to do more to deal with common challenges jointly such as climate change.
The Commission sees a need for talks concerning Russia’s OSCE obligation to withdraw troops from Transnistria by the end of this year and on extending the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement to the acceding Member States.
So far as Transnistria in particular is concerned, I think we can expect significantly more pressure from Russia to get OSCE policy implemented.
In the matter of , the freezing of a large proportion of shares has created much instability and uncertainty on financial markets, and the Commission has made clear, both in the political dialogue in Moscow and at the summit in Rome, that the Russian authorities must in every case apply the laws fairly and without discrimination, observing the principle of proportionality.
In relation to Chechnya, we found that the security situation there has deteriorated further since the constitutional referendum in March and the presidential elections in October.
For obvious reasons, the Commission raised the question of humanitarian aid both in the political dialogue and at the summit and noted that humanitarian aid is being hampered by the fact that our personnel are unable to be active on the ground.
I would like to stress, however, that the Commission still considers it a priority to be present in the region itself with its resources and personnel in order to be able to provide assistance when and where it is needed.
Questions of visa policy and of a readmission agreement that we want to conclude with our partner Russia ought to be discussed as a common objective under the Union’s umbrella.
We must not allow initiatives that would be to the advantage of both sides, such as extending the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement or cooperation in fighting crime and in environmental matters, to come to grief because of bureaucratic obstacles.
It is therefore very important for the European Union and Russia to call the Permanent Partnership Council into being in order to intensify cooperation between respective ministers.
Fourthly and lastly, we should place particular stress on developing a tailored concept, together with Russia as part of our new neighbourhood policy, which will give expression to the importance of the special relationship and the strategic partnership between the European Union and Russia and provide the space to substantially improve and deepen that relationship.
I am pleased to be able to say in conclusion that talks have shown that Russia is willing to cooperate in the context of the European Union’s new neighbourhood policy and that we can therefore meaningfully combine our existing strategy with the new neighbourhood policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following European Union enlargement on 1 May 2004 we will have an additional frontier with Russia, not only through Finland, but also through Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and our relations with Russia will be even more important.
I would like to thank my fellow Member Arie Oostlander most sincerely for negotiating a text with the other groups.
In our legal order, it is taken for granted that we can protest against any administrative act, at whatever level.
That is why it is important for democratic development in Russia and for stability in Russia – stability is unthinkable without freedom, without democracy – that Russia should make progress in making democracy and the rule of law a reality.
It would be a tragedy if, in the necessary fight against terrorism in the world – and we are resolutely for the fight against terrorism –, the Chechen people were ultimately to pay the price of terrorism.
I say quite calmly, but my words are addressed to the Council and the Commission, that if we hold a summit with Russia and issue a declaration, then the most important topical issue cannot be left out of the official document.
However, it is also important that we agree on a common policy and therefore on a formulation when meeting with the Russian president.
We need scientific and cultural exchange with Russia to prevent Russia turning away from Europe as it has often done in its history.
We want partnership, we want a Russia that is turned towards Europe, and we must include young people in particular here.
We want to be Russia’s partner, and if we criticise one thing or another, we do so because we want to see democracy made a reality in Russia and because we want to live in peace, friendship and partnership with the Russian people. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Russia is becoming an ever more important partner of ours and that importance is increasing all the time.
We are in favour of the political solution that Moscow also supports, but the results still seem poor.
We fear a civil war and that the conflict will spread outside Chechnya, to a region where there are already any number of good reasons for a conflict.
This would be the deed of the decade and would create a solid basis for cooperation between us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when Peter the Great wanted to make Russia more Western, he dressed up the Russian aristocracy in Western European clothes and moved the capital of Russia westwards from Moscow to St Petersburg.
The ELDR Group welcomed this EU-Russia summit.
We are right to look for political and economic spaces where our two societies can work together.
Russia and the Union share a common security environment and a high degree of mutual interdependence, so we are right to seek to make our joint borders more secure and our shared hemisphere more safe.
However, Europe is right to rail against Russian repression and governmental meddling in the lives of its neighbours.
The issue of Chechnya will not go away, nor will Russia's refusal to ratify Kyoto.
Mr&#160;Berlusconi speaks for Europe and he should choose his words with care.
His own presidency drafted a declaration last month that was strongly critical of Russian conduct in Chechnya.
We have condemned Russian action in Chechnya and the attempt to intimidate sources of political opposition in Russia for good reason.
I deplore the very relative importance accorded by the Council and the Commission to the issue of Chechnya, as well as the lukewarm nature of the condemnations of the Kremlin during the summit.
Over and over again, Moscow uses the fight against terrorism as an argument for justifying everything.
My group questions the legitimacy of such a consultation, aimed solely at convincing the international community that the situation in the region has been normalised and that the people have been able to exercise their sovereignty.
Mr&#160;Poettering, I know it is difficult to criticise one’s friends when they make mistakes.
He is using Iraq as a tool, as he needs to use everything as a tool, in order to establish his power in Russia: a totalitarian power. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Paragraph 10 of the joint resolution is close to my heart.
One thing with regard to the Chechen tragedy is evident: on no account can this be described as providing a basis for common values shared by the European Union and Russia.
When high representatives of the European Institutions attempt to cover up, or even justify, these two situations, they encourage the Kremlin to follow the wrong political course.
In short, Moscow should not be left in any doubt about what Brussels exactly stands for in the mutual relationship, including where the European Union has its priorities: a good neighbourly relationship which presupposes joint action with regard to problems such as cross-border crime, nuclear risks and illegal migration; the promotion of human rights and the constitutional state, as well as urgent improvement of the nigh hopeless situation in Chechnya; joint action with regard to so-called ‘frozen conflicts’ in the southern Caucasus and a solution to the issue of Transnistria; deepening and broadening complementary trade and economic interests.
You cannot be in it and out of it at the same time.
Indeed, from a strategic viewpoint, how could we not recognise that it is in the vital interests of the Russian Federation, a country that we all regard as an essential partner for the European Union, to stabilise a region that is crucial as regards access to the oil from the Caucasus?
Nevertheless, although I endorse the general thrust of the compromise resolution on which this House is to vote tomorrow, I cannot agree on one point, where it gives a specious and inaccurate interpretation of the position expressed by the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union – something that a few Members have also done in this House.
I therefore believe that what happened at the summit should be interpreted very carefully and accurately, especially the spirit and willingness that characterised the efforts of the current Presidency of the European Union.
Mr President, 3000 deaths since the beginning of the year, 300 people missing, 50 mass graves discovered and elections known to be a farce: this is the balance of the war in Chechnya, and a story of long-standing impunity: the Italian Presidency really ought to call President Putin to account over this.
We note, Mr President, that these words have not yet come. &#160;&#160; Mr President, despite the progress that has been made, our relationship with Russia still seems to be burdened with mistrust, as we have heard in this Chamber.
Russia is and will remain an important political, economic and military factor in the world.
Russia could be an even more effective strategic partner and good neighbour if the EU states would look beyond supplies of oil and natural gas and if the EU would do more to help strengthen economic and social stability, which are essential if democracy is to take shape and develop in a country.
If the USA has a strategic interest in maintaining tension on Russia’s southern borders, that is its own affair.
It cannot be in the interests of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that none of us questions the strategic importance of the European Union-Russia relationship.
The Chechnya problem is a colonial problem and must be resolved as such.
What is happening in Chechnya is infinitely worse than what was done in Algeria and in so many other countries in Africa.
The way forward, then, is for Chechnya to join the European Union, and for Georgia, which is another strategic part of the European Union, to join too.
This should be the programme carried forward by the Commission and the Council. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Parliament has, in the past, adopted a two-track policy with regard to Russia, and it has done so with total conviction.
This translates, on the one hand, into cooperation, where possible, across the board, particularly in all the areas where it can help bring about the cultural change in Russia in order to move towards a constitutional state and more democratic relations.
That is extremely important.
Yet, this is very dangerous, for the public at large is interested in your summit meetings and wants to know what is on the agenda, whether the ideals and values of our European citizens have been mentioned and have determined your conduct.
I think that the Russians are right in this, and that we, while continuing to adopt our two-track policy, can tackle very specific issues, particularly in the area of contacts among scientists.
In my opinion, however, this scientific cooperation is extremely important in the light of Russia’s cultural change.
I hope, therefore, that the Council will continue along these lines and that the impression that has been created by a few personal remarks will soon change, for otherwise your presidency will be placed in a bad light. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is more than three years since President Putin came to office and it is time to take stock.
These are not trivialities, they are very serious events and Europe needs to be concerned with them, especially when an important partner is involved.
So far as Chechnya is concerned, President-in-Office, I have only one thing to say: you are confining the Chechnya problem too much to the subject of terrorism.
I think it is fair to underline the fact that all your speeches have touched on something which for us had been a major priority, the need to have a strategic relationship with Russia.
I shall, of course, make sure I pass on all your observations, contributions and even criticisms, which will form an important store of information not only for our own work but also in general for the Council as a whole. &#160;&#160; I have received six motions for resolutions(2) tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
In Parliament’s view, this new policy must involve the 25 countries of the Union as it will be soon&#160;- in other words, those with which, on whatever basis, full integration with the Union has now been agreed, although at different times&#160;- and our eastern and southern neighbours.
It is in this context that Parliament proposes soon to include the south-eastern dimension in this policy, that is, the countries of the Caucasus, and to look a little further in that direction at the other Middle Eastern countries, which cannot yet be included in this strategy.
Indeed, we are delighted that relations with neighbouring countries have been placed as the first item in the new security strategy submitted by the High Representative for European security, because our security is their security and this is an area that we can build together.
Alongside this, there are a wealth of relationships to build, which should lead us to share with the countries in question mutually beneficial policies founded on a political and institutional dialogue that is backed up with appropriate instruments.
The report thus establishes a clear distinction between this strategy and that of future enlargement, confirming without any ambiguity the decisions to close the negotiations with Romania and Bulgaria by 2007, to assess by 2004 the possibility of opening negotiations with Turkey, and the prospect of accession for all the Balkan countries.
We do not hide the fact in this report that there are other countries, such as Ukraine and Moldova, which make no secret of their aspirations to become members of the European Union.
Lastly, the Action Plans provide the Commission with a flexible instrument for establishing multilateral, regional and bilateral relations with these countries, just as the cross-border instrument will serve not to build walls along the new frontiers but to achieve an understanding and an enhancement of the local dimension.
We believe, however, that there is as yet no fixed European policy on this subject, even though the Commission’s communication makes useful proposals and represents a step forwards. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council is working with the European Commission on developing a series of new initiatives addressed to the eastern and southern neighbours of the enlarged European Union within the framework of the ‘Wider Europe’ initiative.
Since the beginning of the year, and even more so during our six-month term of office, the Presidency has been actively following the development of the European Union's new strategic approach to its neighbours to the east and on the southern shore of the Mediterranean.
The communication also describes the possible measures that could be made available to neighbouring countries as incentives to adopt and apply the necessary reforms that would enable them to benefit from access to the European Union's internal market.
The new neighbourhood policy will be implemented through national and/or regional Action Plans adopted by the Council on the basis of a Commission proposal.
On the basis of the work carried out by the Commission and the Council, as the rapporteur has reminded us clearly, these last few months of 2003 will be devoted to the preparation of the Action Plans.
In January and February 2004, a series of exploratory consultations will be held with the interested countries, on the basis of which by the end of spring 2004 the Commission will finalise the draft Action Plans for submission to the Council for Ukraine, Moldova, Morocco, Tunisia, Jordan, and Israel.
Our neighbours have welcomed this initiative, all of them in fact: our East European neighbours, Russia, Ukraine, Moldova and our Mediterranean neighbours.
We are already in more or less intensive contact with all of them with a view to achieving this initiative’s objective.
The aim is to exhaust the potential for cooperation as much as possible while stopping short of membership, specifically in the field of economic cooperation, which we interpret very widely.
I must make clear to you that the Commission’s ideas for the long term extend far beyond the idea of a free trade area.
We envisage being able to incorporate individual countries fully into our system of economic integration, including the four freedoms: movement of capital, movement of goods, movement of services and movement of persons.
We are not in a position to be only giving all the time, but we would like in return political and economic reforms, democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and protection for minorities, so that the whole area around us can achieve the same level of political and economic stability, and one day also prosperity, as the European Union itself.
Because we would be greatly deceiving ourselves if we believed that things can go well for us in the European Union in the long term if they do not go well for our neighbours.
It is therefore in our own interests to ensure that our neighbours can open up.
As I said, responses have been positive.
The Commission is also already working on the development of a financial instrument with which we shall also be able to underpin this neighbourhood strategy financially after 2006.
We shall after all have to be able to provide financial support for cross-border cooperation between our new Members and our new neighbours on the one hand and among the new neighbours on the other.
I do still have concerns about one point, Mrs Napoletano, and I would ask you to think again whether it is really wise to say that Turkey and the western Balkan countries should be included in this initiative.
The countries included in this initiative are not considered prospective members, at least not for the foreseeable future, and in Turkey’s case that would provoke an extraordinarily negative reaction and, Mrs Napoletano, would even endanger the reform process in Turkey.
Neither would it help us, when the Mediterranean countries of Malta and Cyprus have joined the Union, to cut ourselves off from the countries of the southern Mediterranean.
But we must also make clear, especially to Russia and Ukraine, that no doors are being closed here, that no unalterable decisions are being taken, but rather that a process is being set in motion which at some point will reach its goal.
Then it will be possible without more ado to set ourselves new objectives and reach out towards new horizons.
At any rate, I think it is very good – and I think we can be proud of it – that we now have an idea, perhaps for the very first time, of the political shape we want to give to Europe and its neighbourhood in the years ahead, that for the first time we have a clear strategic vision of what Europe is to look like and how it is to interact with its neighbours.
The communication explicitly mentions increased financial assistance, but we first need to know how it is envisaged to implement these programmes in practice, and I mean in each individual country, not in general.
I wish to make it clear that we support the proposal as part of this initiative to set up a New Neighbourhood Instrument to promote cross-border measures, which are proving problematic because of the different financing instruments that are currently used.
In addition, we have said that we think it would be appropriate if at least the CARDS part of funding under such a Neighbourhood Instrument could be financed for example under Heading&#160;7.
On the basis of past experience, I think it is also important to explain in detail how the Action Plans recommended for each country differ from the Country Strategy Papers that we have today and in what respect they constitute greater added value.
I should like to make one final comment on the European constitution because we discussed it this morning: clearly, at all times in the procedure we must also ensure that Parliament’s right to shape and decide on legislative and budgetary matters is respected when drafting these definitive strategies. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, may I first thank the rapporteur very warmly for being so willing to discuss, cooperate and compromise throughout the drafting of the report.
The enlarged EU needs to consider the practical implications of the new problems that will arise in connection with its eastern neighbours because of the new and longer external border.
We must also devote the same attention to the southern shore of the Mediterranean.
But devoting the same attention does not mean applying the same models of policies and instruments to both the East and the South, because the challenges are very different.
The States of North Africa are in general characterised by a lack of democracy, economic and structural problems, high levels of corruption, significant social tensions, high population growth and the danger of increasing Islamic fundamentalism.
As a direct consequence of this situation, together with the pitiful living conditions endured by the majority of the people there, we are forced to confront increasing illegal immigration and the danger of terrorist attacks.
We have of course already seen this with the resources that we enter in the budget for the Barcelona Process and the MEDA Programme, which remain unutilised.
My group therefore supports the proposal in this report to set up a parliamentary assembly of Mediterranean countries.
In any case, I really cannot imagine – even as part of a very ambitious vision – our allowing freedom of movement for workers from North Africa.
In the next few years, we in the European Union will have our hands full with the further enlargement through the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, the integration of the new members from next year onwards, the development of new cohesion policy in the field of foreign and security policy and social market economy.
It is therefore appropriate for this not to be the main theme of the present report and of the Commission’s communication.
This is why we must, from the outset, make Russia central to the new policy of good neighbourliness not only because of that country’s not always equally positive impact on Minsk, Kiev and Chisinau, but also on account of the energy policy and, of course, because Russia is a nuclear power and a member of the UN Security Council.
This enlarged Europe must be a security community.
The Commission’s proposals form a sound basis for formulating concrete policy with two core elements; more cross-border cooperation, and our neighbours’ participation in the important areas of EU policy, starting with trade.
It is understandable that countries such as Moldavia and the Ukraine should ask why the Commission’s plans avoid the issue of their possible EU membership.
Naturally, those countries have the right theoretically to apply for membership, in accordance with Article 49 of the current treaties, or Article 2 of the proposed constitution.
What I would like to recommend to my friends in both countries, however, is to make optimum use of the opportunities which new EU policy is about to offer, and to work towards a level at which a credible discussion can be held about an association which can lead to possible membership.
We ourselves cannot, of course, give any guarantees, because the efforts will need to come from the countries themselves.
The map of Europe is growing and this means that we have new neighbours and we are faced with the need to create a policy for this enlarged Europe, the composition of which coincides with the Council of Europe, and also a policy of neighbourhood, and I will refer specifically to the policy which must be created in relation to the countries of the southern side of the Mediterranean.
We have tolerated the violation of democracy and we have often supported it – remember events in Algeria and Egypt – due to our own strategic objectives and due to the wish for there to be stable regimes, whatever they may be.
So I believe that we need to launch the issue of democracy for these countries. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the wider Europe strategy was a good idea.
This initiative is sensible and necessary, but it has been ill-conceived.
The wider Europe strategy is a mixture of the Barcelona Process and our plans for our eastern neighbours.
The result is a collection of instruments that in any case already exist, but there is no strategy – I would reiterate this – there is no big new idea, and that is what we need to structure our cooperation with our various neighbours, each of which has its own particular situation.
The neighbours that want to join the European Union themselves have been treated in just the same way as the countries of North Africa.
No consideration has been given to the real problems that 2004 will bring: the problems at the border, the fact that people are really worried about a new wall being erected, and the fact that there is already good cross-border cooperation there that is not being taken into account.
The New Neighbourhood Instrument also contains very good ideas.
If both our new eastern and southern neighbours can make progress in the field of economic development, security and human rights, this will ultimately be to our benefit.
First of all, there is the issue of the common external borders and potential immigration problems.
The rapporteur hopes that the new Schengen borders will not constitute any barriers to trade, cultural exchange or regional cooperation.
The second problem is the position of Turkey, for during the discussion of the report in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, it transpired that the Commission does not envisage Turkey featuring in the policy of good neighbourliness, because it is an EU candidate.
That is, however, in conflict with the report, which clearly specifies that subsequent EU membership of the participating countries is not in any way ruled out.
The role of the countries which are about to join the European Union is now crucial in promoting an effective neighbourhood policy with the countries that will remain outside our new borders.
Many of these countries also aspire to join the Union; not straight away, as Commissioner Verheugen has said, but the door is still open.
Many Members of this House have already mentioned problems such as cross-border traffic – local traffic that drives a considerable, albeit hidden and underground, economy – and the efforts that Poland has always made to keep Ukraine on its side, on our side, on the side of the West.
I should also like to mention Moldova, perhaps the poorest country in Europe.
The Commissioner touched on a key issue, namely how we should treat the candidate countries in this strategy, the countries that have a prospect of membership.
This House is divided into three distinct camps on this issue.
There are those who say that this is our golden opportunity to bid a permanent, or at least prolonged, farewell to Turkey and perhaps also the Balkan countries as candidates and to push them into a different category.
Mrs&#160;Napoletano’s report, that we adopted by a majority in the committee – we will of course see what the result of the vote is here in the House tomorrow – rules out neither one nor the other.
I understand what the Commissioner said, but we do not know what will be decided in 2004.
If, obviously on the basis of the Commission’s work, we can together give Croatia a clear signal that we can negotiate – and I hope we can – then we are actually saying to all of the Balkan countries: there is nothing stopping you joining the European Union if you meet the same conditions as Croatia.
The basic problem with it is the way it confuses concepts, which is due to the fact that the Commission has combined the Wider Europe policy and relations with our neighbours in the same initiative.
In practice the Wider Europe policy covers relations with our eastern neighbours which are in Europe.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has endeavoured to clarify concepts with its Amendments 15 and 16.
The Union would have a Wider Europe policy which would be supplemented by our policies known as the Northern and Southern Dimension.
The new Neighbourhood Policy and the new Neighbourhood Instrument would be implemented in respect of all our neighbours, in the east, south and north.
Firstly, we need to have good relations with our neighbours because it is in the interest of our foreign policy to do so.
These two aspects need to be considered together.
If we continue, covertly, to operate the system, then we will be well on the way to destroying the European Union, because the European Union cannot cope with this.
We are currently undergoing the arduous process of producing a constitution, which may just be capable of setting out a reasonable way to organise the internal affairs of a Union of 25 or 27 countries.
Mr&#160;Verheugen, what will we do with Turkey if it does not meet the conditions for opening negotiations in 2004?
Surely in that case we will have to make a second offer, alongside full membership, at least for a certain period of time.
That is why I think it is absolutely essential for the wider Europe concept to be improved in respect of our neighbouring countries in Europe, making it a ‘European Economic Area plus’.
We must ensure that this also includes those countries whose future may lie in the Union, but which will not be able to become members of the European Union in the next ten years, for whatever reason, and we must ensure that they are not left out.
This applies to some of the countries of the western Balkans, just as it does to Moldova, Ukraine or, for example, Turkey, if a decision of the kind that I have just described were to be made next year.
A major challenge for us is that we do not build a fortress around us whilst strengthening shared values and the workings of the internal market.
Promoting democracy, good governance, human rights and sustainable development in its neighbouring countries works to everyone’s benefit.
On a practical level, border region cooperation will open up new opportunities for investment and innovation on both sides and will reinforce direct cooperation between people.
We should follow the example set by forms of cooperation that work, such as that which exists between Finland and Russia, and for neighbourhood policy to actually get some wind in its sails we have to set aside adequate resources. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when the wider Europe neighbourhood concept was first floated, I was largely sceptical of the bunching together of countries as disparate as Libya and Russia in one document.
This could equally apply to Moldova, which is desperate to be given a helping hand by the EU to sort out the Transnistria question be granted access to the stabilisation and association process.
Russia will be key here and I welcome the recent summit which aims to develop our relations with the strategic partner country through a series of four common spaces.
Although I strongly condemn human rights abuses in Chechnya, I believe we have a vested interest in a stable Russia under the firm leadership of President Putin and a common cause in fighting international terrorism.
Belarus remains a problem, but we must engage in limited but constructive engagements in areas of mutual concern.
Our basic priorities are predicated on good relations, peace and economic and political cooperation.
The Commission document proposes the economic element.
However, as the European Parliament, we too can take initiatives by stepping up our efforts.
Within this framework, I believe and I propose that, as it has done in order to cooperate with other regions, the European Parliament should appoint a joint parliamentary committee with the countries of the Black Sea Cooperation, which already has a parliamentary conference, intergovernmental cooperation, a development bank, a permanent secretariat and, most importantly of all, to which 13 countries belong.
They include members and candidate members of the European Union, the countries of the Caucasus, the Balkans, Russia, Ukraine, Moldova and, generally speaking, countries with a particular political interest in the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we are now in the middle of the greatest ever enlargement of the European Union.
This has given rise to increased interest in the EU in the world around us.
We can expect new applications for membership and new requests for close cooperation in the future.
I think we should be proud of this interest in participating in European cooperation.
It also means that we can support, and make demands upon, surrounding countries so that they respect human freedoms and rights, comply with the principles of the state governed by law and observe basic economic principles of free trade.
Moldova is a small and poor country in the EU’s future border area.
It is my hope that the Commission will try to establish a form of cooperation with Moldova that takes account of this and opens the way to future Moldovan membership of the EU once Romania and Bulgaria have joined. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, after the second world war, the people of Europe had the vision of integrating their countries, and more than 50 years on the EU is the result.
We should also use the other institutions, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, which have a contribution to make to this neighbourhood policy.
A technological agreement with North Africa on solar hydrogen, for example, would be of huge importance for both us and them.
In other words, we are giving shape to a more extensive architecture which complements the instrument of enlargement and which also requires the deepening which the Constitution we are currently dealing with represents.
It would be quite easy for the European Union to say it has enough on its hands dealing with enlargement and bedding down the enlargement process.
I was struck this morning by something the Irish President said when talking about near neighbours - people who live next to each other but do not know each other, at either a local or an international level.
Therefore, this near neighbourhood policy is extremely important, not only for our security but also for the security of those countries who are our neighbours.
It is good that it emphasises the importance of the political, social and economic stability of our neighbouring regions for our security, and I might even say our future.
Our maturity, however, is measured by our skill in averting and preventing conflicts.
That is a real yardstick for measuring the success of our societies, including our very own. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I should like to comment on just a few issues.
Our approach is based entirely on differentiation, which means that each country is treated individually.
This also means that the scope and substance of the common ground will vary quite considerably, at least at the outset.
My final point is this: several speakers complained of a lack of conceptual clarity and consistency.
I think that the concept is actually quite clear.
We want to have a policy that is designed for all those countries that will be our next-door neighbours after enlargement, whether through shared land or sea borders.
As Romano Prodi rightly said, these countries stretch from Russia to Morocco.
Mr&#160;Brok will certainly agree with me when I say that writing an alternative to accession for Turkey in a formal Council or Commission document at this stage would amount to announcing the end of the common strategic approach.
There is talk of a ‘Common Space’, but with no common construction.
The EU’s objective is the integration, pure and simple, of these countries into the sizeable European market, but without any financial compensation in terms of the aid from which the candidate countries for accession benefited, even if the conditions were drastic and unjust.
Freedom of movement for goods and capital, but not for people, is not only inhumane but also totally illusory and cynical.
If the EU wishes to respond to the expectations that continue to be placed upon it by many peoples and to establish a notion of the world radically different from that of the United States, there is every reason for forging new links with our neighbours, particularly our Mediterranean ones. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the Northern dimension. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first Action Plan for the Northern Dimension in the external and cross-border policies of the European Union for 2000–2003, adopted by the Feira European Council on 19 and 20 June 2000, will expire by the end of this year.
Therefore, in order to pursue the Northern Dimension policies beyond 2003, intensive preparatory work was launched a year ago.
In particular, I recall that the guidelines for a new Action Plan were set out at the Ministerial Conference on the Northern Dimension and the Arctic Window in Greenland in August 2002, and the subsequent Foreign Ministers’ Conference in Luxembourg in October of that year.
In line with these guidelines, the Commission established contacts with all the relevant actors, including regional organisations and associations and representatives of the private sector, with a view to preparing a working document on the new Action Plan.
On 11 June this year, the Commission submitted to the Council the working document ‘The Second Northern Dimension Action Plan, 2004-2006’, which incorporated a number of suggestions presented by the relevant actors and took into account experience gained with the first action plan as well as the new demands for the coming years.
The Northern Dimension is particularly important for certain priority sectors in which potential added value is greatest, such as the economy, business, infrastructure, human resources, education, culture, scientific research, health, the environment, nuclear safety, natural resources, cross-border cooperation and regional development, as well as justice and home affairs.
The common framework for the promotion of political dialogue and practical cooperation that the Northern Dimension provides will cover a broad, diverse geographical area around the Baltic Sea and the North Atlantic.
In the context of the Northern Dimension, increased interaction at all levels between Russia and the EU will therefore be essential.
The Commission will keep its overall leading role but all relevant actors, whether at national, regional or local levels, from the business community or from civil society generally, will be called upon to play an active part.
Specific activities in the five broad priority sectors just mentioned&#160;- the economy and infrastructure; education, culture, research and health; the environment, nuclear safety and natural resources; cross-border cooperation and regional development; justice and home affairs – need to be carried forward in a cooperative spirit based on inclusive participation for all, subsidiarity and complementarity, with an effective division of labour and overall coordination and monitoring. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Northern Dimension of the European Union’s external relations and cross-border activities is an important policy area for the Commission and it will become even more so with the forthcoming enlargement.
The Commission continues to work actively on the Northern Dimension.
As a follow-up to the preparatory work done by the Danish Presidency last year, the Commission carried out an open and integrated consultation process in the first half of 2003, involving the most important partners.
The Commission also took account of the European Parliament’s resolution of 16&#160;January 2003.
The main objective of the Second Action Plan is, in the interests of both sides, to provide an instrument for regional cooperation with our neighbours, the Russian Federation.
In addition, the intention is for the Northern Dimension to address the opportunities and challenges that might arise from the forthcoming enlargement.
In other words, it is intended to contribute to promoting stability and prosperity in this region, both inside and outside the borders of the European Union.
The Northern Dimension policy will also contribute directly to achieving the aims that we have just discussed in our debate on a wider Europe and the new neighbourhood.
It should of course be concluded by the end of this year.
In this context, several of the results that have been achieved most recently are worthy of mention, for example: the implementation of the first projects in the Northern Dimension Environmental Partnership, the signature of the Multilateral Nuclear Environment Programme in the Russian Federation and the extension of cross-border cooperation as part of the drafting of the first neighbourhood programmes following the Commission communication of July 2003.
Neither should we forget the large number of projects and specific initiatives implemented by the Commission that have already been completed or are still underway as part of Community programmes, which also contribute to making the Northern Dimension a reality.
The 2003 Annual Progress Report on the implementation of the Northern Dimension Action Plan will provide a complete overview of all of the sectors in the First Action Plan.
The Commission will be publishing this report in the coming weeks.
Finally, we should also remember the significant contribution made by other players, for example the Member States, regional organisations and regional and local authorities.
Only with the active support of all of the stakeholders in the region can the Northern Dimension be a complete success.
The Commission will obviously continue to keep Parliament informed about the implementation of the initiative, and we hope that Parliament will play an active part in the monitoring and review initiatives that will take place in the near future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Verheugen, one can, if need be, always relate good and bad news on the topic of the Northern Dimension.
The agreement over Kaliningrad is in danger of becoming a major quarrel as no one seems to be telling Lithuania what is happening or if anything is happening at all.
It was amusing to read in the minutes of the EU-Russia Summit about a fast-track feasibility study being made by the end of 2003.
The northern gas pipeline is probably going to start being built within two or three years which is to go from the Arctic Ocean, past Finland and via the Baltic to Central Europe.
A big fuss is made from time to time in the Union about the risks associated with nuclear waste and nuclear power stations in northwestern Russia.
The Northern Dimension, however, as was said earlier on, has been criticised as being shapeless and accused of lacking in anything concrete.
The programme promises to put in place a coherent operational framework for all Northern Dimension policy by creating strategic objectives and priorities.
This means developing the economy by exploiting the potential offered by trade and the sustainable use of natural resources.
After enlargement the Baltic will become an internal sea of the EU, and its protection will require swift action not only in the European Union but also in Russia.
The Northern Dimension nevertheless also needs sufficient new financial resources for it to be implemented. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, enlargement of the European Union will strengthen the Northern Dimension.
When the Baltic countries and Poland, which have been major partners in EU external relations, join the Union they will give the Northern Dimension strength both in the EU’s internal development work and its external relations.
The enlarging EU is reorganising external relations with its eastern and southern neighbours by creating the Wider Europe and new Neighbourhood Policy.
It is natural that the New Neighbourhood Policy and the new neighbourhood cooperation finance scheme should also be implemented in northern regions.
Our group supports projects to prevent the sexual exploitation of women and children and to combat the disease and social problems that poverty brings with it.
Neither Greece nor Italy mentioned the Northern dimension in their list of priorities.
They have pulled homewards in the direction of the Mediterranean, even though the country to hold the presidency has an obligation to create projects throughout the Union as a whole.
Prime Minister Berlusconi has been interested more in Russia’s warmongering dimension rather than peace, ordinary cooperation with people and their social well-being.
Its importance is revealed, however, when we look for example at the risks associated with nuclear power in our neighbouring country, Russia, or its recent internal policy.
The stability of Wider Europe depends, furthermore, very much on whether we can achieve effective regional and cross-border cooperation.
As has been said here, when the EU enlarges, the Baltic Sea will grow in importance and hopefully at the same time so will opportunities for more solid cooperation in order to enhance its ecological and political future.
This action plan is a useful survey of the key regional challenges but it is completely lacking in any strategic view of the areas of focus that should be promoted, in particular concrete and measurable short- and mid-term objectives, or how cooperation with the various intergovernmental, NGO and other existing forums should be exploited to achieve them.
Will is the crucial element here too, however. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I hesitate to intrude on what is almost an all-Finnish debate, but I would like to welcome this second action plan and draw attention to two points.
I was privileged to attend on behalf of Parliament all three ministerial meetings that helped prepare this action plan, and there are two points which seem to have been overlooked.
We had the chance in the EU to show leadership in this by working with and through the Arctic Council and also, more importantly, by forging a partnership with the US in this area of the globe where we could work together.
The second point that is missing is that of parliamentary and representative involvement at all levels.
The first ministerial meeting foresaw the creation of a Northern Dimension forum.
But it is also a fact that after 1&#160;May 2004 all of the countries bordering the Baltic Sea will be Members of the European Union apart from Russia.
There will only be one single Baltic Sea country that is not in the European Union and that will be the Russian Federation.
I think that in this respect the initiatives that we have developed vis-à-vis the Russian Federation significantly strengthen the Northern Dimension.
The study on the possibility of a fast train link is something that we arranged with Lithuania, and the Commission negotiated the conditions for such a study in great detail with the Lithuanian Government.
I would ask you to check your information once more, because I am very keen to avoid the impression being given here that we are doing anything that affects Lithuania’s sovereignty in direct relation to Russia.
I do not quite understand therefore how you can say that the window has been slammed shut again, because the opposite is the case.
The window is in fact wide open and I can promise you that the Commission will do its utmost to ensure that all of the opportunities offered by this initiative are fully exploited. &#160;&#160; I have received five motions for resolutions(1) tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be on Thursday. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B5-0414/2003).
The following questions are addressed to the Council.
In line with the aforementioned texts, that is to say OJ L 239, 22.9.2000, p.133, the Joint Action of 26&#160;May 1997 with regard to cooperation on law and order and security (OJ L 147, 5.6.1997, p.1) and the Council Conclusions of 13&#160;July 1997 on security at European Council meetings and other comparable events (document 10916/01 JAAI 82), the Italian Presidency promoted a draft Council resolution on security at European Council meetings and other comparable events.
The draft resolution does not abolish the civil liberties laid down in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union of 7&#160;December 2000 (OJ C 364, 18.12.2000, p.1); in particular, it contains specific provisions regarding protection of personal data for exchange. &#160;&#160; I thank the Minister for his reply, which troubles me of course.
The Council would like to draw the honourable Member’s attention to the fact that the decision does not require Member States to communicate such information to the Council.
The Italian Council Presidency did, however, organise a meeting on the issue, which took place in Rome on 13 and 14 November 2003. &#160;&#160; – As far as we are aware, only eight Member States have replied to date, whereas the planned deadline for replies was 6&#160;September.
It is enough to mention the Möllemann case&#160;–&#160;in which Eurojust was involved, with data exchange&#160;–&#160;of a German Liberal representative who committed suicide precisely whilst a police and judicial operation was under way involving several Member States.
The Council has not discussed the conditions of the trial.
As regards the general attitude of the Council and the Commission regarding Cuba, I refer the honourable Member to our debate in this House at the beginning of September. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my question does not relate either to the trial of the Cuban prisoners or to their current detention.
My question essentially relates to respect for the rights of families, who are being prevented from seeing these prisoners, despite the fact that these rights are enshrined in international law and in the law of the United States.
It relates specifically to two women, who for more than four years have not been authorised to visit their husbands, and to a very painful situation which is once again being reported on in the media: today one of the wives has once again been refused a visa to enter the United States in order to see her husband.
What I want to know is whether the Council considers this to be an issue worthy of its attention or not. &#160;&#160; I must apologise to the honourable Member because, clearly, my reply was not appropriate, so to speak, given the requests.
I will commit to carrying out further checks and to replying&#160;–&#160;as far as I am in a position to do so&#160;–&#160;in writing to the honourable Member. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must insist on this issue, since in October the President-in-Office of the Council promised us that he would reply in writing to all the questions we presented, and this has not happened.
We must leave no stone unturned in our endeavours to promote universal signature of the Rome Statute and its full enforcement though national legislation.
The Union believes that universal signing-up to the Rome Statute is essential for the International Criminal Court to be fully effective and, to this end, considers that initiatives should be encouraged, which increase acceptance of the Statute, provided that they are consistent with the letter and spirit of the document.
The Council would like to mention that it has, on every possible occasion&#160;–&#160;common positions of the Union, guidelines and various initiatives undertaken by third countries&#160;–&#160;clearly and consistently stressed its position as regards bilateral agreements on non-surrender negotiated or concluded with the United States.
The Member States to whom the USA has proposed agreements of this kind immediately asked for a common approach from the Union on these proposals within the framework of the Council.
The basis for any solution that takes into account the concerns of the United States must preserve the integrity of the Rome Statute and must not jeopardise the functioning of the International Criminal Court.
I would refer you, in particular, to the Union guidelines annexed to the Council conclusions of 30&#160;September 2002, in which the Council confirmed that, according to the current wording, signing bilateral agreements with the United States would be incompatible with the obligations that the Statute of the International Criminal Court imposes on States Parties, as it could also be incompatible with other international agreements to which the said countries are also States Parties.
This system should ensure that national judges conduct appropriate investigations into persons brought before the International Criminal Court and, where there is sufficient proof, set the appropriate legal proceedings in motion.
In any case, the solution adopted as regards the citizenship of those people who are not to be surrendered should only affect people who do not have citizenship of a State Party to the International Criminal Court.
As was confirmed by the Council in the common position of June&#160;2003, the Member States are continuing, where appropriate, to draw the attention of third countries to the Council Conclusions of 30&#160;September 2002 on the International Criminal Court and on the Union principles annexed to it, regarding proposals for agreements and conventions relating to the conditions for surrendering persons to the Court.
As regards Guantanamo Bay, as the European Parliament knows from the replies given by the Council to a series of written questions on this issue, the Council has not formally discussed this subject with the United States.
The Member States whose citizens are detained in Guantanamo Bay, are, therefore, adopting measures, which they deem necessary to ensure that their citizens’ rights are respected in the context of the relevant bilateral agreements with the United States.
On 16 October 2003, a number of Israeli and Palestinian representatives meeting in Jordan agreed in principle on a peace plan to resolve the dispute between Israel and Palestine, injecting new life into the peace process.
It was stressed that the European Union expresses its firm commitment to the clear objective of two States&#160;–&#160;Israel and a viable, and democratic Palestinian State&#160;–&#160;living side by side in peace and security in the framework of comprehensive peace in the Middle East, as laid out in the road map.
Furthermore, the European Union reiterated its determination to contribute to all aspects of the implementation of the road map and stressed the importance and urgency of setting up a credible and effective third-party monitoring mechanism.
The European Council said that it is deeply concerned by the situation in the region and noted that, despite support given by the international community to the quest for a just and lasting solution, insufficient effort has been made by the concerned parties to seize the opportunity for peace set down in the road map, underscored by the recent Quartet Ministerial Statement issued on 26&#160;September 2003.
The European Council therefore called on both parties, Israel and the Palestinian Authority, to live up to the commitments they undertook at the Aqaba summit on 4&#160;June&#160;2003.
The European Council urged all sides in the region to immediately implement policies conducive to dialogue and negotiations.
The EU-Israel Association Council, which took place on 17 and 18&#160;November&#160;2003, gave the Union a good opportunity to give a clear political message to the Israeli Government.
As a result, the decision adopted in December 2002 on aid seeks to concentrate Community financial support on a series of measures that the Council deemed to be a priority within the new framework.
As regards constructing new vessels, Regulation No&#160;2369/2002 states that public aid in this sector will continue to be available up until the end of 2004, but, from now on, will be given for fishing vessels not exceeding 400&#160;GT.
Nevertheless, as regards direct investment for safety at sea, working conditions and the quality of products, Regulation No&#160;2369/2002 provides for aid for equipment and modernisation after 2004 without applying the 400&#160;GT limit.
I refer in particular to the case of six Breton nationalist campaigners – four of whom have been imprisoned without trial for over three years and one, Alain Solé, for over five years.
Arrested in 1999 for alleged participation in bomb attacks, Alain Solé's health has deteriorated seriously as a result of his unlawful incarceration.
The Nice Treaty laid down provisions that followed on from the time the Council took action against Austria for breaching fundamental rights.
There is now provision in the Nice Treaty for action to be taken against France.
I believe that there is an obligation on the Council and the European Union as a whole to ensure that France respects fundamental rights.
Clearly that is not being done in this case. &#160;&#160; I will make a note of the comments made by the author of this supplementary question.
Frankly, I believe that the position that I have expressed is correct, but given the further request, I will undertake to check if the situation should be other than what seems correct to me.
Yet despite consistent calls for international intervention from human rights organisations, Chechnya has been recently taken off the agenda of the international community and relegated to a Russian internal matter.
On 8&#160;October&#160;2003, the Presidency, on behalf of the European Union, issued a statement on the presidential elections in Chechnya.
The issue was also raised at the EU-Russia Summit of 6&#160;November 2003 in Rome. &#160;&#160; It is deplorable that the vested interests of America and the European Union have allowed this issue to be pushed off the international agenda and turned into an internal Russian issue, which it clearly is not.
During the Irish presidency, I would like to see the Council give support to the Irish, because in the national parliament the European Affairs Committee has actually appointed a rapporteur on Russia to look at the issue of Chechnya.
During the Irish presidency there will be two meetings, the first in Dublin, during the visit by the Foreign Minister, the second the EU-Russia summit to be held in May.
The Council needs to put strong pressure on the European Union.
This issue has to be put back on the international agenda.
It is completely unacceptable that over 150 000 people have died over the last decade and appalling human rights abuses are taking place.
People are willing to turn a blind eye to what is going on in the interests of oil and resources. &#160;&#160; I would remind the honourable Members that this is a Question Time and not a time for statements.
I would like to draw the Council's attention to a case where a child suffered serious injury after falling through a glass panel housing a fire hose reel in a hotel lobby.
The Council would like to draw attention to the Commission report of 27&#160;June 2001 (COM(2001) 348), on application of the aforementioned recommendation, which examines the state of its implementation in Member States.
The Council believes that the recommendation and the Commission report constitute a sufficient basis for Member States to assess to what extent further specific provisions could be called for, including the treatment of fire safety equipment in order to further improve fire safety in hotels. &#160;&#160; My question has been partially answered, President-in-Office, because you talked about the current recommendation.
It deals with the maintenance of the equipment, but in this incident a young child nearly had a very serious accident because he fell through the glass.
For example, this should be toughened safety glass as it would be in the UK but apparently not in Spain.
This issue relates to the Intergovernmental Conference, in which the Council, as an institution, does not play any part. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I suppose I must thank you for your answer, but I cannot say I am happy with it.
One of the questions on the agenda concerns Christian values and the issue of what message should be given in the preamble about the values underlying the European constitution.
It would certainly be helpful for us to know what the Italian Presidency’s position is on this matter. &#160;&#160; I believe that I have already answered the previous question with sufficient clarity in saying that the Council, as such, does not adopt a position on issues relating to the Intergovernmental Conference.
These figures include financial, technical and economic cooperation, food security, humanitarian aid, cooperation with non-governmental organisations and in the field of human rights, and other horizontal budget lines.
Nevertheless, in the current phase, it has not been possible to give a precise picture of the general commitments and the various forms they have taken, such as loans, subsidies, debt cancellation and swaps.
According to the Union, this calls for further provisions to ensure that the poorest and most marginal groups of society have access to services, including reinforcement of land rights and greater political participation of indigenous peoples.
The European Union welcomes the commitment made by the Bolivian Government to combat corruption and intends to stress the importance of swiftly approving anti-corruption legislation and of more effective application of the current legislation.
The fact that reform of the public sector remained almost at a standstill last year has, however, raised some concerns.
The European Union and Bolivia have behind them a long history of close, fruitful cooperation.
The competent authorities are currently looking into specific measures. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for the full explanation you have given me on the aid to the Bolivian Government.
It appears that these causes relate above all to the liberalisation and modernisation requirements in a country which has very serious structural problems, as a result of the international situation.
Specifically, my supplementary question is whether, in view of the failure of Sánchez de Losada’s experiment in liberalisation, following the formulae of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Union and all the international institutions currently governing world economics have considered the consequences of the failure of these policies which we are imposing on them and the need to reconsider a new type of policy with regard to countries such as Bolivia. &#160;&#160; There has not yet been a critical assessment that has given us any reason to adopt alternative measures to those taken thus far.
We believe that in-depth study of these issues&#160;–&#160;and thus tackling the roots of the problem&#160;–&#160;will allow us to understand better how to act with a policy guideline which has yielded good results in other situations and which we believe can be a useful instrument as regards the situation in Bolivia too.
The President-in-Office of the Council tells us that he must leave at 7 p.m.
A series of proposals will be examined and we will try to ensure that these problems do not arise in the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I have been in this House for some time now and even before I was elected in 1994 I worked here.
It is a beautiful city and I think that for the six months concerned it would not be too inconvenient for representatives of the Council Presidency to spend a night here from time to time. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I often take part in this Question Time and I find it shameful that recently this has become a routine excuse: the representative of the Council informs us in advance that they must leave the Chamber urgently.
I am going to put my supplementary question, since I have the right to do so, which relates to Question No 17, relating to an enormous tragedy.
It relates to Question No 17 and says: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, following this tragedy, has the European Union acted in relation to Morocco in view of the fact that the Kingdom of Morocco has reacted positively through the measures it has adopted recently? &#160;&#160; Yes, Mr&#160;President, I obviously support the opinion of the two previous speakers that it is indeed deplorable that the Council is treating Parliament – if you will forgive my putting it like this – in a rather offhand manner.
This situation is all the more regrettable because we all have obviously very important questions to put to the Council and because we are awaiting its reply.
I shall not repeat my question about the banning – improper, in my view – of a Basque newspaper, issued nine months ago by a judge, apparently under the influence of the Spanish Ministry of the Interior.
Such a situation seems to me to have disastrous implications for freedoms.
As the time allotted to questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 13 to 32 will be replied to in writing (4).
This is a contrast in which, as a Member of the European Parliament, I take no pride.
This approach enabled us to adopt a balanced, coherent and, therefore, credible report.
I believe that Parliament would do well to acknowledge that defence is an enormously sensitive field in political terms and currently falls directly within the competence of the Member States.
Mr President, despite the fact that the European Union has already demonstrated its willingness to assume, in addition to the financial contribution it makes, further responsibilities for managing and undertaking peacekeeping operations – as we are currently seeing, for example, in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, in Bosnia-Herzegovina and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo - weaknesses and shortcomings still remain.
This difference in capability must, therefore, be reduced, in order to achieve a more balanced transatlantic cooperation, thereby increasing stability and security in the euro-Atlantic area.
In this context, one might conclude that the budgetary resources the Member States allocate to defence capability are insufficient.
Major changes have already taken place or are now taking place in the national defence-related industries in various European countries, in a concerted effort to improve the management of their industrial arms policies.
The European Union, therefore, has an obligation to promote these attempts at approximation with the aim of ensuring the interoperability of means both at intra-European and transatlantic levels, in order to avoid pointless and wasteful duplication and overlapping.
A first step in this direction could be to simplify the administrative formalities governing intra-Community transfers of defence products, and gradually to harmonise national licensing systems.
Therefore, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we welcome the decision that has just been taken by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence to accept the objective of making the European Arms Agency operational as of June 2004.
To bring my speech to a close, I shall take this opportunity to summarise the main conclusions of the report that we will be voting on tomorrow.
These are: increasing European military capability, so as to ensure the credibility of its foreign and defence policy objectives; improving the interoperability of defence equipment, at both intra-European and transatlantic levels, with a view to guaranteeing the security and stability of Europe and of the Atlantic area; establishing, in this framework, conditions favourable to developing a competitive and viable European defence equipment industry; better use of public monies in this field, in particular to prevent overlapping, by promoting industrial and technological interdependency and research linked to this sector; involving the new enlargement countries in this process of industrial reconversion; promoting adequate rules governing competition and security of supply while taking account of the gradual opening up of the arms markets; creating financial support measures for new defence equipment, in particular to develop equipment to protect the Union’s external borders, including its maritime borders; and, finally, the need to improve parliamentary monitoring and follow-up mechanisms for security and defence policy at both levels at which it is implemented - the European and the national levels - with the appropriate involvement of the respective parliamentary representations.
The obligation incumbent on the European Union and on its Member States is, consequently, in cooperation with their allies, to streamline their military and arms capabilities and at the same time increase resources for diplomatic cooperation, for the information services and also for police and judicial cooperation in a genuine synergy of national and trans-national policies.
This report on the defence industries seeks to contribute to enhancing the climate of collective security that we would all like to see.
In its resolution of April 2002, the European Parliament urged the Commission to address industry- and market-related issues in the context of the European defence industry.
Developments in recent years, such as the gradual piecing together of a European security and defence policy, and changes in the industry itself have set the scene for a re-evaluation of the issue, which a few years ago was considered premature.
The Commission is perfectly aware of the sensitivity of this area and of the specific characteristics of the defence sector.
Consequently, we adopted a cautious approach, focusing on the prospects for developing Europe’s industrial and technological potential in the long term and stating our determination to make a substantial contribution to the efforts of the European Union, wherever possible.
As everyone knows, we presented proposals for practical action, in particular on research in the field of security and defence and on developing a European defence equipment market.
Our proposals were well received by the Member States and I am pleased because the Commission has now been implementing some of these decisions since March of this year.
In this context, I should like to emphasise that an impact assessment study is currently being conducted on the issue of simplifying intra-Community transfers of defence equipment.
The joint efforts in the field of standardization with the European Committee for Standardization (CEN) in order to draw up a European manual that can be applied to defence contracts are continuing; the principles for undertaking economic control of the defence industry and market in the enlarged European Union have been delineated; and there has been a change of approach to controlling the export of dual-use products, in the broader context of European Union strategy and of the action plan to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
With regard to research issues, I should like to inform you that the Commission is putting the finishing touches to a communication on preparatory action for increasing European industrial potential related to research in the field of security for the period 2004-2006.
A group of experts has been set up with the aim of advising and assisting the Commission in this task, which we hope will contribute to a substantial European research programme in the field of security, from 2007 onwards.
He welcomes, in particular, the proposals for standardization, the rules for public tenders and for intra-Community transfers, emphasising as regards the latter the link with controlling arms exports at the Union’s external borders and, in particular, Parliament’s proposals for an EU code of conduct.
The report welcomes the idea of pilot projects to be undertaken in research and development in the field of security.
All of these suggestions encourage the Commission in its action and we also feel encouraged by the favourable opinion of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on the creation of the common European market for defence equipment and its explicit support for various proposals by the Commission in this area.
As far as the creation of an agency in the field of defence is concerned, following on from the mandate given by the Thessaloniki European Council, the Member States, through the Council, asked the Commission to clarify how the Community could work with and/or within the future agency so as to maximise synergies in pursuing common objectives.
The Commission reacted favourably to this request and can today confirm its desire and willingness to contribute to this task, using the means already presented in the communication of March of this year, which is the subject of today’s debate.
In this spirit, the Commission plans to be involved in the Agency’s development and operations, to help it to achieve its objectives, as defined by the European Council.
Nor must we forget to provide our High Representative with the resources he needs in order to take action since, according to the Council’s proposal, it is he who will assume the direction of the Agency.
I would therefore take this opportunity to salute the courage of the rapporteur and of all those within the committee who have backed his report by having written, or agreed, that the persistent refusal of many Member States to increase their defence expenditure is in danger of jeopardising the European Union’s military capability and the very coherence of its action within NATO.
As I have said before in this House, Mr&#160;President and Commissioner, let us not forget the old French adage about false economy, widely heard in pre-Revolutionary France: no money, no Switzerland. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;Queiró’s report and the Commission communication are along the lines of our previous parliamentary resolutions, adopted since 1984, on European security and defence policy.
The Commission communication and this report have come at a good time for continuing the progress it has already been decided should be made by the ESDP, notably since the Cologne European Council in June 1999.
It has been decided to set up a rapid reaction force of 60&#160;000 men.
Allow me to emphasise one point, because it is important and also because it is topical, as pointed out before me by Mr&#160;Queiró and Mr&#160;Morillon.
We shall again express our support tomorrow by voting in favour of this report and of an excellent amendment tabled on this subject, that is to say the Agency, by Mr&#160;von&#160;Wogau.
Last Monday, a joint decision by the foreign ministers, including those of the new Member States, in fact launched this Agency, which had been decided upon in principle at the Thessaloniki Summit and which must therefore begin its work in January 2004.
In short, a lot of good fairies are present at its birth.
We firmly believe that this report, and the Commission communication on which it is based, are being pushed forward by the vested interests of the European military industrial lobbies, who are clearly the real policy makers.
This report supports the European Arms Agency, established last Monday by the Council of Ministers.
The military industrial lobby has even succeeded in having this agency included in the draft EU Constitution.
The inclusion in any constitution of a military agency whose aim is to promote common military procurement and to improve the arms industry's efficiency just beggars belief.
There is also the question as to why this particular agency was selected for inclusion in the draft Constitution rather than, for example, a conflict prevention agency, which my group would have supported.
The decision could not have been adopted without the agreement of all the Heads of State.
It was clear from the presidency's conclusions that one of the main objectives of this decision is to strengthen the EU arms industries and make them more competitive on the global stage.
The presidency conclusions stated that this agency, which will be subject to Council authority and open to participation by all Member States, will aim to develop defence capabilities in crisis management, promote and enhance European armaments cooperation, strengthen the European defence industrial technology base and create a competitive European defence equipment market, as well as promoting, in liaison with the Community, research activities, where appropriate, aimed at leadership in strategic technologies for future defence and security capabilities, and thereby strengthening Europe's potential in this area.
It is clear that these decisions are geared towards the vested interests of the European arms industries and that progress and research are going to be diverted away from useful aims towards products that kill and destroy people, rather than products that make the world a better place.
The Irish Government's failure is a national scandal and one of the worst decisions that any Irish government leader has taken since 1990, when our Minister for Finance backed increased low-interest loans to the nuclear industry.
My Group tabled two amendments on this report to underline that, apart from being against the development of weapons in general, we are very much against the development of military technology, the use of which is damaging to the environment.
There are major problems, even at the experimental phase.
Its CEO bemoans the fact that the US already invests six times as much as Europe in armaments and research.
I take note of your request and I will give you the floor at the end of the debate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is clear that if we want to develop credible cooperation in the field of defence in the future I will not anticipate here the form it will take, its limits or its future legal status it will be necessary for the States involved to provide each other with mutual support in the field of military equipment.
However, the Commission's communication of 11 March 2003 on this subject is disappointing for three main reasons.
This is, however, an extremely reductionist point of view, because in this area security concerns are and must remain predominant.
This has always been recognised within the meaning of Article 296 of the EC Treaty, which is retained in the same form, I would remind you, in Article 342 of the third part of the draft European Constitution.
Secondly, the Commission communication shows an excessive tendency towards communitisation, with codecision, and also by creating a Community framework for defence equipment which would apparently centre on the Arms Agency.
I am pleased, incidentally, that this Arms Agency, which is in the process of being launched, finally, on the basis of Article 17 of the EU Treaty, is of an intergovernmental nature.
Therefore, even if this cannot be laid down in a strictly legal sense, there should at least be a statement of intention to this effect somewhere.
As so often in Commission communications and reports in this House, the solution that is offered to a particular problem is to extend EU competence.
The consistent failure of many European states to spend more on defence not only undermines the transatlantic alliance, but also damages our defence industries.
But if we want the EU to make a serious military contribution to the Petersberg task of peacekeeping and peacemaking, the European security and defence policy needs to be underpinned by a credible ability for EU nations to conduct military operations when NATO as a whole is not engaged.
For those who want a greater EU role in global affairs vis-à-vis the United States, it is absolutely right to state that Europe is tied to US support for every military initiative and operation.
That is why it is important in this debate to support the creation of a European Defence Agency, an agency that should be primarily focused on developing European military capabilities and establishing a framework for measuring them.
Importantly, in the context of tonight's debate it will also have a wider commitment to promote cost-effective procurement and competition.
There are many examples, such as the recent A 400 M contract, where simpler and clearer administrative procedures for procurement would have been welcome.
Although tonight's debate focuses on defence equipment industries and procurement, we must not forget the importance of increasing civilian capabilities for the prevention of conflict.
The importance of trying to build a sustainable peace also requires serious action on conflict prevention and post-conflict strategy.
The rapporteur mentioned the need to control the export of arms to third countries, and I am thinking in particular of dictatorships.
The European Union is not doing enough about this; indeed, it is doing almost nothing.
The Commission maintains that we must not copy the United States.
If I were an elected representative in Washington I would find it hard to answer.
For example, the A 400 military transport may be a worthy successor to the Hercules, with a greater capability, when it flies, but the only long-range heavy lift aircraft in Europe today are the Boeing/McDonnell Douglas C17s leased, not owned, by the Royal Air Force.
Millions of euros have been invested by four European countries and the weapons systems built around it.
We must have a proper evaluation of the role and requirements of our armed forces before we can develop a capability to meet them.
Of course cooperation and economics go hand in hand, but we know that for our troops the equipment and the training are what count.
We must give our troops the best, both in equipment and training.
I would like to draw your attention, however, to the fact that the initiative taken by the Commission following the request from the European Parliament and the Council must be based on the Treaties as they exist at the moment.
While it is true that we are concerned to stress the importance of an economic and industrial basis for the development of this sector at European level, it is also important to stress the responsibilities of the Commission in the field of research and, above all, that this research strategy hinges on the concept of security.
I would like to add that even when the debate involves crisis management or conflict prevention, we must not forget that the credibility and effectiveness of crisis management action within the framework of a conflict depends to a large extent on the capacity for military support allowing crises to be managed.
No, humanitarian action, in order to be successful, requires the support of force and it is on this basis that we are in the process of creating a foreign security and defence policy.
The Commission's initiative takes this precise approach, which is our approach, which is the European perspective and which is taken up by the Convention in the draft Constitution. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The first point, and probably the most politically controversial, is the final status of Kosovo.
It is the EU’s responsibility to take the lead to ensure that within a period of – as far as I am concerned – two years, there is clarity with regard to Kosovo’s final status.
We will leave it up to you to decide, which also means that if we spend our money in Montenegro or Serbia, we will spend it on areas that need to be improved anyway.
Now that the committee has reached agreement on the above two points, the following point is now at risk of becoming the controversial point in plenary.
It is about the fact that a number of countries in that region, three to be precise, have concluded a bilateral agreement with the United States to exclude American citizens from the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court in The Hague.
It is very clear what the report states in this connection.
Moreover, it is laid down that ultimate EU membership of those countries at some point in the future is not compatible with such a bilateral agreement.
Indeed, he wants to rule out an agreement of any kind with those countries, as long as they have this agreement with the United States.
Like you, I am angry with the United States for having forced those countries into concluding such an agreement, but I do not want to penalise the Albanians and Bosnians for that reason.
What should matter to us is to strike the right balance between, on the one hand, our criticism of the United States and of those agreements, and, on the other, recognition that we also want to bring those countries closer to Europe in the next couple of years.
I would like to comment on some of the specific points raised in the report.
We will also need to reflect carefully on financial assistance for the Western Balkans, in view of the next financial perspectives starting in 2007.
Concerning the visa regime, the peoples of the region attach great importance to this issue.
These partnerships will help the countries to focus their attention on priority areas and will thus contribute to speeding up the European integration process.
TAIEX, the Technical Assistance Information Exchange Office, which will help these countries harmonise their legislation with the , will be operational in the near future, and preparations to open up participation in Community programmes and agencies are ongoing.
I am pleased to inform you that the feasibility study on the opening of negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement with Bosnia-Herzegovina was adopted by the Commission yesterday.
The study points to both progress and continuing weaknesses.
Against this background, the Commission thinks that it should be able to recommend to the Member States the opening of SAA negotiations when Bosnia-Herzegovina has made sufficient progress in meeting a number of short-term priorities that are central to the implementation of such stabilisation and association agreements.
We received, within the deadline, more than 10 000 pages of answers from Croatia and if all goes well we hope to finish our work on the opinion by March or April.
I note the suggestion of a neutral stance on the relationship between Serbia and Montenegro.
This will be a thorough objective assessment designed to determine whether the countries are ready to start negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement.
As things stand today, we need to see further substantial progress on key issues such as the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, cooperation and development in the Serbia and Montenegro internal market and a single trade policy, as well as political and economic reforms.
We believe that, within the framework of the commitments made by the Thessaloniki European Council in June 2003, launching European integration partnerships for the Western Balkans merits setting a medium-term objective based on an action plan – this is our proposal – setting out the measures and actions which need to be undertaken by the countries of the Western Balkans and the European Union.
In other words, priority should be given to structural and economic reforms leading to functioning market economies and sustainable development.
The rate of integration into the European Union will obviously depend on the countries themselves.
Nonetheless, I want to emphasise that the stabilisation and association process is the institutional framework for the course towards Europe of the Western Balkans and marks a shift in the centre of gravity from stabilisation to association with the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as was laid down in Zagreb and only very recently reconfirmed in Thessaloniki, each of the countries of South-Eastern Europe has its own individual prospect for accession.
It follows that we are right to adopt the strategy of commencing negotiations towards a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with each country one at a time.
It also follows, however, that preparations for accession are primarily in the hands of the governments in those countries.
That is why they have to join with us in stepping up the fight against trafficking in human beings, which actually amounts to trafficking in women.
They have to combat crime, arms dealing and corruption.
Croatia is cooperating properly with The Hague; even archive documents have been handed over to the tribunal.
Indeed, it was in Croatia itself that three accused persons, including a General, received lengthy jail sentences.
If the international community could not get its hands on Karadzic or Mladic despite SFOR having been present in Bosnia-Herzegovina for seven years, then we should not, in this regard, apply the wrong standard to the people of Bosnia-Herzegovina and to the Croats.
They handed Milosevic over, thank God, as well as the three butchers of Vukovar, but many more are still awaiting extradition.
It is in Serbia’s interests to be allowed to sentence some war criminals in Serbia itself.
I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that the High Representative does not always make use of the powers he possesses.
The metaphorical sword of Damocles hanging over Bosnia-Herzegovina would be unnecessary if the EU were – as Commissioner Vitorino has just said – to make demands that Bosnia-Herzegovina can actually meet.
I do not, admittedly, agree with all the points he makes, but that is the way of things in politics.
Commissioner Vitorino also referred to the issue of ‘standards before status’, which should be given practical expression by such things as the stipulation of more precise deadlines; it is, though, above all for the Albanian authorities in Kosovo to take the necessary action themselves.
If we get to the point where draft treaties in respect of these countries are put before us, then we will in any case have to take a decision on their individual merits.
Clearly, it should not accept any process of integration.
The signature of agreements is an arguable issue and it would be good if on the basis of the discussion which has just taken place the compromise solution could be reached which would indicate that the European Union is not prepared to accept any agreement unless certain conditions are met.
We have also presented another amendment on the issue of fishing in the Adriatic.
However, we believe that some of the problems have been due to the development of Europe’s own dynamic and also to the fact that at that time we lacked a coherent, constructive and democratic foreign policy and, with our support for ethnic or religious identities, we have created a problem whose consequences we are now paying for.
All the aspects pointed out in the report are positive.
I would like to stress the need to support cooperation with the International Criminal Court for the Former Yugoslavia, the criticism of the possibility of signing agreements with the United States, outside of the International Criminal Court, the support for the return of the refugees and displaced persons and, above all - perhaps the most important aspect – the fight against corruption, the fight against organised crime, against the trafficking in women and children, the fight against all trafficking – of drugs, of arms etc. – which is a cancer which is eating away at this region.
I am referring to respect for national minorities and the management of borders in Albania.
In the case of Serbia, there must be cooperation with the international court in The Hague.
A simpler, realistic approach to moving closer to Brussels would avoid mutual disappointment.
Allow me to be very direct and specific.
If so, then here lies an opportunity for us to offer a helping hand by providing the Western Balkans with free access to European education programmes.
Allow me to make three observations.
First of all, in paragraph 10, does the rapporteur not turn matters on their head in connection with the present visa regime between the European Union and the so-called SAP countries?
It seems more logical to me to link a possible easing of the visa regime to a number of EU conditions.
My third observation concerns paragraphs 51 and 52.
In paragraph 51, the rapporteur is still cautiously positive about the start of direct talks between Belgrade and Pristina, with good reason.
Within this framework, the report – correctly in my opinion – stresses the serious importance within the priorities of the European Union of preparing the countries of South-East Europe for future integration into the European structures.
Allow me to take this opportunity to refer to the particular subject touched on in paragraph 21 of the report and to expressly state that the European Parliament regrets the flagrantly unacceptable manner in which the recent local elections were conducted in Albania.
Already, Croatia has applied to join the European Union.
The only line of approach of our policy must be the interest of the citizens and peoples in the area.
However, every new superficial movement will result in a new domino effect with unforeseeable consequences.
In all the countries of the Stability Pact, there are close ethnic minorities which are the local majority and border other countries in which the corresponding ethnic groups are in the majority.
We must prevent the mobilisation of forces by neighbouring countries to protect national minorities inadequately protected by the countries of which they are citizens.
We must insist on 'peace, democracy, security, cooperation, stability' and the only message to all the countries is that the European Union is waiting for them, they just have to speed up their efforts.
It would be good if the texts were corrected as usual. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I am very displeased to see that in this resolution, cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia - ICTY - is one of the conditions for further Western Balkan engagement with the EU.
A large number of indicted war criminals are still at large in Serbia-Montenegro, including Ratko Mladic, who was responsible for killing 7 000 people in the genocide at Srebrenica.
Of particular concern is the case of Croatia.
The debate is closed.
This Pact has proved a valuable framework that complements European Union policy towards the region as it endeavours to support the countries in that region in their efforts to foster peace, democracy, respect for human rights and economic prosperity, and also to achieve stability in the region as a whole.
The proposal being examined by Parliament today, under which the Stability Pact would be included in the scope of Council Regulation (EC) No 1080/2000, will provide the Pact with a sound and solid basis on which to fulfil the crucial mandate given by the international community.
The Stability Pact is specifically designed to further foster regional cooperation, as was underlined by the Thessaloniki Agenda endorsed on 20&#160;June 2003 by the European Council.
It will thereby complement the stabilisation and association process engaged with the Western Balkans.
The Commission therefore welcomes the positive opinion on the proposal and hopes that Parliament will share the objective of having this new financial framework fully applicable as of 1 January 2004.
The Commission regards Amendment 1 to Article 1(2) as superfluous, since the principle of cost-sharing by Member States is implicitly contained in Article 2(2) of the regulation, and given that budget line 19&#160;07&#160;04 is an integral part of the budgetary discussion.
With reference to Amendment 2 to Article 1a, as well as Amendments 4 and 6, the Commission can support the proposal that the appointment of the special coordinator of the Stability Pact be renewed on an annual basis.
The Commission also agrees with the wider objective of closely associating Parliament in following the work of the Stability Pact.
Nevertheless, and bearing in mind the need to keep the appointment procedure as straightforward as possible, the Commission cannot accept Parliament's proposal, in Amendment 2 to Article 1a, to include formal consultation of the relevant European Parliament committee.
Neither can it accept the insertion, in the form of a new Article 1b proposed by Amendments 3, 5 and 7, of a hearing before the committee.
However, the Commission agrees with Amendments 4 and 6, with regard to ensuring that Parliament is informed of the appointment proposal.
The Commission is happy, although it is not possible to include it in the new regulation, to make the commitment before Parliament to arrange for an association with Parliament in practice.
The appointed special coordinator will appear before the Committee on Foreign Affairs as necessary, and at least twice at year, to report on its activities.
The Commission would be grateful if Parliament could adopt a positive opinion during the present part-session, since it is eager to embark on the implementation stage immediately after the new regulation enters into force, in order to provide the special coordinator of the Stability Pact with the timely support that will allow him to fulfil his mandate in 2004.
We can never do enough to involve members of the regional parliaments in the important work of stabilising the Western Balkans.
Much, though, remains to be done, and I believe that the Swoboda report, to the content of which we will be giving our full support tomorrow, will make an important contribution to this. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mrs Stenzel.
The debate is closed.
Applying the principle of free movement and abolishing controls at national borders has heightened the importance of controls at our external borders.
We know that free movement within the territory of the Schengen States is a freedom that in return requires not only a strengthening of our external borders but also a rapid and efficient exchange of information under border controls and police cooperation.
In this context, the Schengen Information System (SIS) has played quite an important role, which we are attempting to extend even further by creating a second generation of the SIS that has been designed for SIS&#160;II.
The SIS operates as an information system that enables the competent authorities in the Member States to investigate and receive alerts on persons and on objects.
The SIS is the largest database in Europe and has a dual function: it contributes to maintaining public order and security and to immigration, by supporting the measures intended to compensate for the free movement of persons.
The proposals presented to us for the creation of SIS&#160;II are intended to extend the system’s capacity and to introduce new technical and research possibilities, taking advantage of the most up-to-date developments in the field of information technology.
There is already agreement in Council on allowing new authorities to access SIS, but it is not yet known what these authorities will be.
The Council has taken no decision on what new categories of objects or persons will be included.
Indeed, a document issued by the Presidency in February 2002 even suggested that the SIS could be used for the purpose of police information in the broadest sense.
We reiterate that any decision taken must always be accompanied by the highest data protection standards, specifically the requirements stipulated by Article&#160;118 of the Schengen Convention, in a constant attempt to achieve the right balance between security and freedom.
As to the issue that the rapporteur raised, concerning the nature of the Schengen Information System, I should like to recall that, since the very beginning, police authorities have been authorised users of the System, in particular in the context of their monitoring activities within EU territory.
Since the Schengen was integrated into the European Union, the Schengen Information System has been central to the area of freedom, security and justice.
The acceptance of the United Kingdom and Ireland’s partial participation in the Schengen system without these countries abolishing controls at their borders confirms this development.
The debate on precisely what new functions of the system will be implemented in order to enhance its effectiveness and whether these will further alter the nature of the existing system is still to take place.
I therefore welcome the fact that Parliament wishes to play an active role in this crucial debate, which must be as transparent and wide-ranging as possible.
To give you a brief overview of the work that has been undertaken, I should like to remind you that the results of the feasibility study conducted by the Commission were immediately conveyed to Parliament, in the Spring of 2003.
The Commission services have spent the last few months drawing up the specifications for this tender in close cooperation with the Member States and have kept the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs informed on a regular basis.
This legal base will include rules on data protection that will also cover access by private individuals.
Although this call for harmonisation goes beyond the issue of SIS&#160;II, the Commission intends, in the course of next year, 2004, to propose a legal instrument on rules for the protection of personal data under the third pillar.
I therefore wish, once again, to emphasise the importance the Commission attaches to Parliament’s full involvement in the debates that will take place, which I hope will be as transparent as possible, and to which this report will certainly make a decisive contribution.
I hope that this report wins the support of this House, &#160;&#160; ( We have heard, both from the rapporteur and the Commissioner, that we are dealing with a Schengen Information System which is of a decidedly new generation that is very different from the first and which therefore has a new and different significance for the European citizens and a new and different responsibility towards them.
The data from SIS II and SIS I can, in other words, now become a useful resource for purposes other than those initially intended.
Furthermore, the enlargement of the European Union means that it is necessary to develop a second generation information system by 2006.
Consequently, the Council framework decision on the European arrest warrant and the surrender procedures between Member States also provides for recourse to the SIS and, therefore, for the need for it to be updated in due time.
On the basis of all this, it is necessary for the Council to promote a public debate on the nature of SIS and on the political objectives to be achieved with SIS II to ensure that the development of this system takes place in a transparent and democratic way.
An assessment will, of course, be made on respect for fundamental rights, and it will therefore be necessary to entrust the strategic management of this and other information systems to an extremely reliable European agency: an agency run by an administrative board composed of representatives of the European institutions and the Member States; an agency that is, moreover, financed by the European Union budget and, therefore, subject to Parliament’s control.
To this end, a great deal of attention needs to be paid to the potential implications of a system of this kind for privacy, human rights and the risks involved in including biometric data.
It is, however, gradually becoming an instrument of police cooperation, because the Council is seeking progressively to confer new functions on it and to allow various authorities to access its database.
As the Schengen Joint Supervisory Authority states, the proposals to develop the SIS and the creation of SIS&#160;II constitute a sea-change in the nature of the system itself: whereas the SIS only alerts the relevant authorities in the event that an individual, whose details are on file, crosses the Schengen border, SIS&#160;II will probably become a multifunctional research tool.
This would represent a shift from an approach of reactive security to an approach of active security.
The prospect of a new system that would enable the authorities to share information on millions of individuals for different purposes, probably using the most advanced technologies including biometric data analysis, forces us to consider the impact that this new system could have on citizens’ rights, freedoms and guarantees.
In particular, the right to the protection of personal data recently confirmed in Article&#160;8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and integrated into the draft European Constitution drawn up by the Convention.
It is true that the need to improve cooperation in the fields of justice and home affairs and, in particular, the linking and cross-referencing of information between different databases is one of the objectives of the European Union that the Member States are obliged to pursue.
We all understand the need for efficient information systems that are capable of meeting the challenges laid down for us by international terrorism and by cross-border crime, but this action must never endanger the fundamental principles on which the Union is founded as a Community ruled by law.
The balance between privacy and security must not be altered by adopting information and communication technologies that have been created by governments as a response to the increased risks posed by new and dangerous criminal phenomena.
When the available technologies constitute a threat to the integrity of personal information that should be protected, we are obliged to adopt appropriate legislation that provides for any potential abuse.
What we have here is a non-binding recommendation in an area outside Parliament’s competence.
It has to do with nothing less than national, supranational and international police authorities’ uncontrolled use of the information and monitoring systems forming part of what is termed the second generation Schengen Information System, known as SIS II.
The original rationale behind the Schengen Information System, or what was known as SIS I – namely nothing more nor less than the securing of border controls – has long since been replaced by an ambition to collect police information in the broad sense of the term.
Involving more and more information on more and more subjects, the Schengen Information System, or SIS, and, for that matter, Sirene are outside the domain of the law and not subject to controls.
The misuse of such a legal vacuum is an almost inevitable consequence of the police state factors that are already present and that have been approved. &#160;&#160; Commissioner Vitorino, I could, perhaps, as usual, raise the issue of the fact that these developments regarding SIS are happening without common rules on data protection.
Instead, I will use my speaking time to simply ask you for a Christmas present: for you to bring us, by Christmas, a nice chart including an exhaustive list of the data that has been handled and the way in which it has been handled within all of these data bases, the categories of data, the legal basis, the method of handling each type of data, the rights of the individual to access and correct data regarding them and abuses concerning them, and the method used for each type of data for transfer outside the European Union.
Commissioner, I do not know if I am particularly inattentive or incompetent on this subject, but I have not yet succeeded in finding a source, a document, which indicates what data has been transferred, how, where and according to what rules.
We are opposed to the policy of a fortress Europe, surrounded by barbed wire, whether electronic or simply legal.
We reject it and we will vote against. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, if one considers the SIS in the light of history, it represents Europe’s further development of Germany’s racist Central Register of Foreign Nationals, which has for years listed every foreigner living in Germany, and if we are to talk, in this House today, in terms of freedom, then the state is free to examine its human material and to sort it into categories, and at the same time has the task of doing so.
This amounts to a fundamental change in the database’s character.
Consequently, if we wish to continue to guarantee the principle of abolishing our internal borders, we must be able to assume our responsibilities by better monitoring the external borders.
I believe that the crucial issue facing us consists of recognising the advantages of the Schengen Information System.
Access to the Schengen database is reserved exclusively for the Member States of the European Union.
As regards the type of data to be included in the system, I believe I answered this point in my speech when I said that the debate on what specific data is to be included in the system is yet to take place.
The proper identification of this data has not yet taken place and the Commission is currently preparing a communication that it will publish by the end of the year, in which we will make an assessment of the state of the current debate.
I understand people’s doubts and fears, but I do wish to say one thing: there is a considerable difference between the fact that I, as Commissioner, am talking to you here about the Schengen Information System&#160;II and the fact that, in relation to the first system, there was no Commissioner to give an answer here, about what was being done.
There is a considerable difference between that situation and the fact that I am standing here telling you that the Commission will present a proposal to harmonise the control and protection of personal data under the third pillar and that there must be democratic and judicial control of the system’s workings.
The debate is closed.
Since this difficulty has arisen, Prime Minister Jean Chrétien has announced his intention to step down from office on 12 December.
It therefore seems unlikely that the date of 17 December can be maintained.
However, the Commission remains hopeful that a solution can be found so that our final summit meeting with Prime Minister Chrétien can indeed take place before his retirement.
We have put a lot of work into preparing for this summit, which will be the last hosted by Prime Minister Chrétien, a long-standing true friend of Europe.
We intend to use this occasion to demonstrate the strong ties that bind the European Union and Canada, and to signal our common intention to strengthen those ties still further in the coming months and years.
The Commission was gratified to note the great degree of consensus between the chairman's statement, the recent conclusions of the Council of Ministers and the Commission's own communication of May 2003 on EU-Canada relations.
As the chairman's statement observed, the EU and Canada agreed at last year's Ottawa Summit, to undertake a comprehensive review of the bilateral relationship during 2003 and to report back to the December summit this year.
The Commission is working hard, alongside the presidency and with our Canadian counterparts, to finalise a joint report to go to the summit.
However, Canada and the EU's common interests extend far beyond the commercial arena.
By way of example, Canada voted with the European Union 96% of the time during the current UN General Assembly, on those occasions when the European Union had a common position.
We want to find ways of working together more systematically in the field of security and foreign policy so that we can be more effective in carrying forward those policies where our objectives coincide.
We also want to improve our dialogue in other policy areas where we often share common values and face similar challenges.
We have also maintained our focus on the very important economic relationship that exists between Canada and the European Union.
The EU is Canada's second most important trading partner after the United States.
We are the second source of foreign investment in Canada.
In parallel with our comprehensive review of all aspects of EU-Canada relations, we have also been developing the framework for a new type of bilateral trade and investment agreement, with the aim of facilitating trade and investment flows between the EU and Canada.
We expect talks to begin immediately in 2004.
The European Commission believes that an intensified dialogue between European and Canadian parliamentarians is essential to maintain the good health of our relationship.
The Commission is grateful for the work of Parliament's Canada delegation and hopes that other Members and committees, working on specific policy areas, will also give consideration to increasing contact with their Canadian counterparts.
The relationship between the EU and Canada is very healthy.
We want the summit to lift this relationship to a new plateau, at a challenging time for the international community and in preparation for major changes taking place in Canada and within the European Union in the coming month. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner Vitorino was right to refer to the very special relationship we have with Canada, which is in the process of being raised to a higher level.
You mentioned, Commissioner, that our models of society are identical or very similar.
Cultural diversity is present in our European Union too, a diversity that will become even more marked following the accession of new countries next year.
You also mentioned, Commissioner, that we have the same global interests, and this goes hand in hand with the other aspect you mentioned, our shared social model.
Our global interests are in the field of foreign and security policy.
Particularly after 11&#160;September, we have to engage in a global cultural dialogue, for a clash of civilizations, a will get us nowhere.
This leads me to mention another aspect, which is that although Canada, that great country, is in North America, it is one in which French is spoken.
I think there is great potential if France joins Canada in promoting such dialogue.
Not least is this in the interests of our most important partner, the United States of America.
Now that the Iron Curtain has ceased to be, we are quite right to work towards a balanced relationship with Central and Eastern Europe and also with those Eastern European countries that will very probably never belong to the European Union, especially with Russia.
We must never forget, though, that we must continue to look westwards; not only to the USA, but to our great ally Canada.
Together with Canada, we must work towards global equilibrium in a multipolar world, and I believe that a productive relationship with Canada in this process is something the significance of which cannot be overestimated. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it is interesting that we are discussing EU-Canada relations on the same day as Mr George Bush is visiting the United Kingdom and trumpeting the so-called special relationship between the United Kingdom and the United States of America.
In the corner of the UK that I come from, the special relationship is not with the United States of America but with Canada.
So the ties that bind Scotland and Canada are much stronger, I would argue, than the ties that bind the United Kingdom and the United States of America.
So the EU's relationship with Canada is extremely important and we should do everything possible to nurture it.
It was therefore with some sadness I heard the Commissioner inform us tonight that the summit looks like it could be cancelled.
I know from my contacts with Canadians that Prime Minister Chrétien, a very good friend of Europe, believed that holding this EU-Canada summit would be one of the crowing points of his final few weeks in office.
It would be a slap in the face to a good friend of Europe if this summit does not go ahead in some shape or form.
The important thing is that it happens before 12 December.
We both value, in a way that some other countries do not, the multilateral institutions of the world and we value the international rule of law.
Much is to be gained by working with our Canadian partners on issues as diverse as the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, and the Doha trade negotiations.
Again, as the Commissioner rightly outlined, our economic and trade relations are good.
Canada's willingness to reach an agreement on trade in wine and spirits demonstrates the goodwill that characterises our relationship with the Canadians.
Finally, on justice and home affairs, we have a common approach to issues as diverse as terrorism, migration, asylum and border controls, as well as issues of the integration of migrants.
I hope - and I address this to Commissioner Vitorino - that we can find a solution to Canada's desire to have a longer visa period for Canadian citizens visiting the EU.
The Ottawa Land Mines Convention expresses our joint abhorrence of these weapons and our determination to act.
Canadians continue to invest significantly in Europe: almost EUR 65 billion last year.
The Commission's strategy document dwells rightly on the good will which exists between us, but identifies rightly that very little positive action flows from it.
High level meetings between Canada and the EU have too often lacked clear objectives.
This summit should re-launch our relations on much more proactive terms.
For the second time in as many weeks he has embarrassed the Union, and in this case offended a valuable ally.
Given the importance of our large store of common North Atlantic values, this summit should assert that Canada and the EU will henceforth cooperate proactively in foreign and security policy and on environmental questions.
This means aligning our positions before major international meetings.
The summit must also produce concrete proposals for a steering group to assess the future management of our relationship.
We need more formal meetings at official and expert level, and a much more focused relationship.
In conclusion, it is time to equip our other transatlantic relationship for the new century. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Watson.
The debate is closed.(1) &#160;&#160; Colleagues, this is a special day for me, as an Irish European.
Madam President, six years ago you were elected the eighth President of the Republic of Ireland.
This transition afforded opportunity to a new generation of Irish people that previously was only available to our substantial emigrant community.
I hope, President, you will not object if I quote to you part of a speech that you made in the United States in May 2003 - words which sum up very well the positives of Ireland's European experience: 'the little impoverished island off the west coast of Europe, which became an unremarkable member of the European Union thirty years ago, has become the symbol of the Union’s potential, the place with the economic success story that everywhere else wants to imitate.
Next year we will be building bridges on a continental scale as we formally welcome our friends from the ten new Member States.
We, in the European Parliament, have worked diligently in this process of bridge-building and are proud of our contribution.
You speak many different languages and you particularly understand the connection between language and culture, so I know you will be a particularly receptive audience if I too take this opportunity to speak in the Irish language for a moment.
Ireland will assume the presidency of the Union in January 2004, so it seems right that today I should briefly address some of the major agenda items that will feature during Ireland's presidency.
The Taoiseach, our Irish Prime Minister, will of course deal with them in considerably more detail when you meet in January and you can be sure that he and the Irish Government are looking forward to that.
Along with the Council and the Commission, it forms a crucial part of the institutional checks and balances through which the European project has succeeded so well on behalf of all of us.
Naturally, I take a particular pride in the fact that we have two Irish Presidents today in this Chamber.
Now transformed from a consultative into a legislative body, a transformation indeed well supported by the Irish people, this Chamber demonstrates the central place of democratic politics right at the heart of the Union and in its debates bears witness to the expanding areas of cooperation within the Union - so much greater today than those early preoccupations with trade and the economics alone.
The valuable role played by Parliament's representatives to the European Convention is a further recent manifestation of the extent to which you are the shapers of the future of the Union.
As the directly elected representatives of the Union's citizens you are particularly well qualified to inform the debate on bringing Europe closer to its citizens, an issue which has taken centre stage and which will form a special focus for the Irish presidency.
I represent, as you know, a country which has arguably changed more in the three decades of membership than at any time in our history: our economy has grown stronger, our population decline has been reversed; our self-confidence has increased; our relations with our nearest neighbours in Britain have never been better; and our standing in Europe and beyond is one of which we can be proud.
Although geographically situated on the periphery, Ireland has had a very distinctive and unique European outreach over many centuries and indeed has played an important part in the cultural, religious, educational and social development of many parts of our continent.
Virtually every time I visit a Member State I am reminded that an Irish saint got there first many centuries ago!
To the Union table we each bring our national sovereignty, our differences, our national identities and our histories.
Through respectful dialogue and a shared belief in partnership we dare to forge a working team of neighbours, each of whom loves his or her native land and yet each of whom shares a devotion to our common European continental homeland.
This Union is living proof that humanity can comfortably carry a range of identities, that they can complement and enhance each other and that we can deliver a better future for our people inside the Union than outside it.
We know that this will undoubtedly be our most challenging presidency to date but we also know that we will have your support as we attempt to be an effective and an impartial arbiter in search of practical and even-handed outcomes in the interests of the European Union as a whole.
The needs are very simple: the Union must be effective internally, influential externally and must equip itself for the future.
The most important moment in Ireland's presidency will, of course, be the formal accession of ten new Member States on 1 May 2004.
It is an awesome, positive answer to the challenge laid down in this very forum just under a decade ago by Václav Havel, whom I had the great pleasure of welcoming to Dublin last week.
The citizens of the accession countries have endured the painful reforms required for membership and thanks to their determination they stand on the doorstep of the Union much more quickly than anyone could have anticipated.
And, of course, the enlargement process does not conclude on 1 May 2004.
In addition, the Irish presidency will monitor very closely developments with Turkey, in advance of the key decisions on opening negotiations to be taken in December 2004.
The new Member States will be ambitious for their futures and we want to see them prosper as they put the opportunities of membership to good use.
Now it is our common challenge to ensure the success of a Union of 25 Member States.
The Italian presidency is demonstrating its determination to do all in its power to reach agreement in the IGC by next month, and Ireland, naturally, is strongly supportive of this aim.
The draft text produced by the Convention is a huge step forward in this regard.
Naturally, however, a number of questions remain to be fully debated and finally resolved, including the issue of a reference to God in the preamble to the new Treaty.
The Irish Government has indicated that it would welcome such an inclusion if consensus can be reached on suitable language.
How we manage economic and social development in the new Europe, how we harness the real potential offered by enlargement, how we breathe life into those words - these are, therefore, vital questions that Ireland will seek to address during our presidency.
A key task during Ireland's tenure will be to advance the Lisbon agenda of social, economic and environmental renewal.
At the Lisbon Summit of 2000, the Union set itself the ambitious objective of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by the end of this decade.
The Irish presidency will seek to increase the relevance of the Lisbon agenda by focusing on areas that affect our everyday lives, because there can be no doubt that economic competitiveness, growth and investment, job creation, social protection, social inclusion, and sustainable development are all critical issues for the quality of life of Europe's citizens and for the relevance of the Union in their lives.
The Union has both a duty and an opportunity to exercise its influence in the wider world, in pursuit of our shared values and, of course, our shared interests.
It reflects the influence and the respect that the Union garners in all parts of our world.
I experienced this personally during a recent State Visit to China, whose leaders greatly value the development of closer links with the Union.
External relations, therefore, will be another key aspect of the Irish presidency.
There is a variety of means by which the Irish presidency will continue to address these and other issues, including the power of our own particular history which makes us an especially effective bridge to the United States, home to so many of our Irish emigrants.
Underpinning international peace and security is a vital network of multinational organisations and multilateral organisations of global, bilateral and regional relationships.
Close and direct cooperation on bilateral and regional issues will be a feature of our presidency, whether it is in Africa, Asia, the Americas or, closer to home, in the neighbouring countries to the Union's east and south-east - our new borders.
Nowhere is the call for the responsible exercise of power stronger than in the conduct of our relationships with the developing world.
The European Commission and the Member States collectively contribute over 50% of global Overseas Development Assistance: over EUR 25 billion per year.
I have been fortunate to see with my own eyes the practical benefits of this aid in countries such as Uganda and Kenya and the real hope it gives to lives otherwise blighted by despair.
Perhaps this is the new gauntlet that should be thrown down to the 25 Member States of the enlarged Union.
A Europe that has healed its own divisions can advocate its values with genuine credibility on the global stage.
We Europeans must ensure that inside each of our nations and between our 25 nations, our children are taught respect for others so that they can grow up completely at home, comfortable, in a world of difference and diversity and be an example to the rest of the world.
Its institutional architecture was strongly influenced by the experience of conflict resolution in Western Europe.
In Northern Ireland the European Union's Peace and Reconciliation Programmes, which are generously supported by the European Parliament, have benefited many previously alienated and excluded communities and given a renewed sense of hope and optimism about the future.
Elections to the Northern Ireland Assembly will take place on 26 November 2003 and it is my fervent hope - and I am sure a hope shared by many of you here - that the choices made will help my birthplace become what I know it is capable of becoming - a showcase of partnership, tolerance, equality and peace.
Irish luck places us in the right place at the right time.
