rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, I wish to begin by saying that I very much regret the fact that we are going to conduct this debate in the absence of the Council - the very Council whose budget we are about to discuss.
In accordance with paragraph 42 of the Interinstitutional Agreement, no operational appropriations for the Common Foreign and Security Policy may appear in the Council's budget.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, the decision that we are about to take is a very important one.
It is important that we do not do something that we cannot do as a Parliament, but it is also very important to say that it is our right to have a view, to have an opinion on the Council's accounts, when these accounts are operational and where these operational accounts must be accounted for.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Thank you, Mr Søndergaard, your report is a gem, covering, as it does, all the pertinent points.
As a rapporteur on VAT fraud, in my report that was approved on 4 December, I clearly asked the Council to answer a number of questions.
The Council must act.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Mr President, I, too, would like to ask the same question, and that is where is the Council in this debate?
We in the Committee on Budgetary Control, in particular our draftsman Mr Søndergaard, have put several question marks against the Council of Ministers' management of its finances.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Mr President, we are facing one of the really important, fundamental questions here.
It is also claimed that there is now more transparency in the Council when, in actual fact, there has been less transparency in that institution since the 2006 Council Decision.
After that, we shall take a look at the consequences. (PT) Mr President, I join in congratulating our rapporteur on his work, as also the various political groups, the Commission and our committee in the person of its chairman.
I must say that not only is the existence of slush funds absolutely unacceptable to us, but also that this supposed gentlemen's agreement, which will be 39 years old, does not, in my view, now have any reason to exist.
Anyone wishing to do that tomorrow is welcome to, but my recommendation is not to grant discharge and to opt for postponement. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is in our interests to find a solution to this dispute, but this will be possible only if the Council makes a move.
