Approval by the European Parliament of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union (debate) The next item is the report by Jo Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the approval by the European Parliament of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union (2007/2218(ΑCI)).
Thanks to the new Lisbon Treaty, the Charter will have the same value as the Treaties; in other words it will be legally binding.
With regard to all of this, I must congratulate this Parliament and Mr Leinen on the adoption of this draft report on 12 November by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
It only remains for me to express my sincere desire that the House will also find itself able to vote in favour of this report, thus allowing the Charter of Fundamental Rights to be solemnly proclaimed by the three institutions on 12 December. (Applause) Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, the Charter of Fundamental Rights will be a key instrument in our Union based on the rule of law.
Like Parliament, we would have preferred to see the Charter apply to all 27 Member States, with no exceptions to its full justiciability, but we should not underestimate the results achieved.
The Charter proclaimed in 2000 was not legally binding.
At the European Council in June 2007, it was agreed that the future new Treaty would contain a cross-reference to the Charter, as adapted and finally approved in 2004, and that it would have the same legal value as the Treaties, and this is now reflected in the new Treaty.
The Commission will also approve the Charter next week and authorise the President to proclaim it on 12 December, together with the Presidents of Parliament and the Council.
I am pleased that all three institutions agree that the Lisbon Treaty is not just about institutions or about policies; it is about people, namely the 500 million people in the European Union.
With this Charter and the 50 rights and freedoms contained within it, the European Union will have the most modern and comprehensive catalogue of fundamental rights in the world.
Starting with Article 1, which talks about protecting human dignity, all the way through the Charter to the final Article, which deals with the right not to be punished twice for the same criminal offence, the Charter provides enhanced protection of rights and also mentions rights which are not necessarily found in all the constitutions of the 27 Member States.
However, I think we should note, with satisfaction, Article 6 of the Lisbon Treaty which states: 'The Union recognises the rights, freedoms and principles set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which shall have the same legal value as the Treaties.' That removes any doubts for citizens of the European Union by confirming that, with this Treaty, they do have the opportunity to assert their rights before the national courts and, ultimately, the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, the PSE Group supports the readoption of the Charter in its new form so that it can, through the Reform Treaty, be made binding on the European institutions.
The European institutions as such are not bound as yet in a watertight way to respect the same rights that all our Member States respect by virtue of their own constitutions or by virtue of their membership of the European Convention on Human Rights and other international human rights instruments.
It is now 2007 and the Union is to accede to the European Convention, but not, however, so that it becomes the only European system for protecting human rights.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (DA) Madam President, I have been involved in the preparation of the Charter, and in both conventions I have proposed a very simple solution: allow the EU to become a member of the European Convention on Human Rights.
On the contrary, we are creating a number of gaps in the protection that we enjoy as citizens under our national constitutions and as part of our common European human rights.
Associated with this is the fact that European legislation and the actions of the European institutions are bound by values and value-based decisions, along with the first sentence of this Charter, which is also the most noble: human dignity is inviolable.
Our Charter has its roots in events that contributed to the development of democracy and the contemporary system of liberal democracy during the last 200 years.
I appeal to the Polish Government in Warsaw, and in particular to Mr Tusk, the Prime Minister.
We should not allow ourselves to be blackmailed by the conservative right wing, which would like us to agree not to implement this Charter in our homeland. (PL) Mr President, I believe that the Charter of Fundamental Rights is a sine qua non for any community wishing to operate pursuant to the value system derived from respecting human dignity.
I should like to remind this House and its President that in 1965 Archbishop Karol Wojtyła published a written declaration according to which German bishops had stated clearly that Germans resettled from the East wished, and indeed had, to understand that a whole new generation of Poles was growing up there, and that these Poles considered the land assigned to their parents to be their own homeland.
As regards the European institutions, European citizens can also assert their fundamental freedoms and rights in accordance with the fixed jurisdiction of the Court of Justice.
It is important both to those who believe in fundamental rights as a principle and to those who believe in the development and integration of Europe.
Heartfelt thanks to Jo Leinen and to all who have assisted in the work, and - not least - heartfelt congratulations to the people of Europe! (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, on 12 December, the President of Parliament, together with the Presidents of the European Council and the European Commission, will solemnly proclaim the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights reflects the moral and spiritual heritage of the peoples of Europe in the European Union.
However, I would also like to call for clarification of possible conflicts of interest between the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, a European Union document, and the European Convention on Human Rights, a Council of Europe document, which the European Union has also declared it will observe.
At the same time, I think that, with regard to the future, the Charter of Fundamental Rights must become the ars poetica of Europe.
in writing. - (FI) On 19 October in Lisbon a Treaty was signed which was to make the European Union more viable and more democratic.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union must be made legally binding, and the EU should accede to the European Convention on Human Rights.
In an intergovernmental conference Members of this Parliament passed an initiative whereby the Presidents of the European Parliament and the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council would sign the Charter of Fundamental Rights in a ceremony in Parliament's plenary on 12 December and it would be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
