Many cultures and many languages are far younger and hence less deep-rooted, so there is, in all of them, concern about their own identity.
Europe is a mosaic, and a very beautiful one, and we want this mosaic to be conserved rather than becoming a cocktail.
This is a decisive moment before enlargement, when we are able not only to express our positions on the work that the Convention has completed, but also to offer proposals.
The Year of Languages 2001 was important, but it was not enough.
I would like to highlight the importance we place on the Council of Europe's activities in the field of languages.
The second point relates to the adoption of a multi-annual programme.
It is not a question of substance, as you know very well that we are of the same opinion in that respect.
I have already had several opportunities to talk to you about this issue.
The implementation report demonstrates that regional and minority languages now occupy a prime position.
This action plan is based on the conclusions of the Helsinki Conference on regional and minority languages, organised under the aegis of President Ahtisaari in October 2002.
Mr Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, Media and Sport, if you like, I will outline this action plan, adopted on 24 July, in greater detail and talk to you about its implementation.
As a result, thanks to the budget passed by Parliament, on 31 July the Commission published a call for proposals and the projects should be submitted by the end of this month.
Allow me also to say that we should take advantage of the discussions on the new generations of programme because if we truly want to implement a concerted action for languages, the new programmes should incorporate a significant multilingual element.
As far as the definition is concerned, I believe we are in agreement: we should use that of the Council of Europe, as set out in the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages.
I can tell you that the proposal for a decision establishing an action programme to promote bodies active at European level in the field of culture is currently being negotiated.
I must stress that most of these requests go far beyond what could be implemented within the framework of the two legislative initiatives proposed by Parliament itself.
I do not want to go into detail, but would remind you that many concrete initiatives to promote regional and minority languages are contained in this action plan and that substantial funding is already available.
The action plan aims to bring everything together and to present to the citizens in all their diversity the possibilities the European Union can offer them, the opportunities recommended in the action plan for languages, in other words the opportunities, Mr Ebner, that have exactly the same aim as your report: to turn this grand European linguistic mosaic into a great table for Europe's cultural diversity.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for all his work and, above all, for his great willingness to seek solutions to possible problems.
Spain is a country with great wealth when it comes to languages, and there are many regions or Autonomous Communities in which Castilian is co-official - as the official language of the Spanish State - with another language, such as Catalan or Basque, amongst others.
We in Spain already channel enough money towards the promotion of languages and, for this reason, we do not agree with channelling more Community budget for this purpose, bearing in mind all the existing needs at European level.
We believe that certain points in this report - and we agree with its general basis - do not entirely respect the principle of subsidiarity and even violate the principle of proportionality and Community legislation.
Mr President, it is commonly accepted that European cultural diversity is closely linked to linguistic diversity, which makes a significant contribution to our very perception of the world, to expression and creativity.
Maintaining linguistic diversity, as expressed through support for lesser-used languages, contributes, apart from anything else, to social cohesion, to preventing conflicts and, of course, should not in my opinion operate along lines of quantitative parameters, along lines of majorities and minorities.
However, it should be stressed that it is only by opening these cultural communities up to dialogue that we shall find a fruitful solution.
In Europe there are unitary states, nation states and also multinational states - states made up of several nations with their own languages.
In this regard, we can say that the steps recommended by Parliament - by means of the Reding report - at that time have not been taken: that official texts in Catalan should have validity and that the Commission should also regulate a form of incorporation of Catalan into the linguistic system of the European Union, since it is a language spoken more widely than many of the languages which are working languages and official languages here.
We are not asking, under any circumstances, that Catalan should be a working language - the European Union's linguistic system is quite complex enough - we are simply asking for recognition of its validity as an official language and that it may participate in the wealth of this cultural mosaic.
For many years we have been in a stalemate over the legal funding for minority languages in Europe.
The Commission and the Council have dragged their feet on this issue for far too long.
I wish Mr Ebner well with his report.
The variety of regional and lesser-used languages across the continent of Europe is an integral part of our unique cultural heritage.
In my own country, Ireland, and in the neighbouring United Kingdom, the predominant language is an ever more global English.
We often talk about Europe's cultural heritage.
The preservation of language diversity far outweighs preservation of architectural or artistic heritage, important as they may be, because language is a living thing.
It is vital to safeguard and promote these languages.
Mr Vallvé, we are the symbol of geographical diversity for the same so-called minority language.
We must not rob the Member States of their power of action in the field of training and culture.
I see Amendment No 5 as a step in the right direction, as it encourages ongoing support for minority and regional languages in a context of political neutrality and independently of any mercenary, financial considerations.
There could perhaps have been greater emphasis on these languages as their users face the same problems on a daily basis as the people using the languages covered by this report.
That would seem to me to be a pragmatic and effective way of encouraging and developing the use of our regional languages.
As legislators, it is precisely our role to determine these criteria.
Thus we would undoubtedly have had to distinguish between regional languages and minority languages.
Minority languages may be national or official languages in a Member State, one example being the German-speaking population in the Alto Adige region or South Tyrol, as mentioned by the rapporteur.
My own language, French, is unfortunately losing ground every day as a language of international communication, but the very existence of others is threatened.
We must certainly develop regional languages, and that is my conclusion, Mr President, but we must ensure that we do not undermine or weaken our national languages.
The regional languages will contribute to our cultural wealth only if they meet these three conditions.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, some 40 million people speak a regional or minority language in addition to one of the Union's official languages.
The European Parliament has always made a case for protecting linguistic diversity and regional and minority languages.
Various resolutions have been adopted in this respect.
Their language deserves as much attention and support as do spoken minority languages.
I sincerely hope that the Commission will manage to present a legislative proposal on language diversity by the end of this year.
As we have already heard said many times today, one essential part of this richness is linguistic diversity, which we have taken on as our cultural heritage and must pass on as a matter of cultural responsibility.
Whilst it is the individual states that have responsibility for minority languages and for their support, the European Union cannot evade the obligation to take action to back them up in this; we are talking here about 40 million EU citizens and 60 regional and minority languages.
Today is therefore a particularly well chosen time to present the report on regional languages and cultural diversity.
It is important for us to share our various experiences of linguistic diversity and language learning.
I also wish to thank the Commissioner for mentioning the conference in Finland.
We learned a lot at this conference, lessons I hope may also be taken on board by Parliament.
That is all very well, but as the joke goes, some are more equal than others.
With Esperanto this issue, this shortcoming, does not arise.
If it is true, and I believe it to be so, that this language is as easy to learn as is claimed by many international studies, then I believe that the European Union should at least try exploring this avenue.
If we look more closely into the trouble spots in and around Europe, we discover that a lack of respect for those who are different - which involves languages - has very often brought about the trouble in the first place and led to the situation in these places worsening.
I see language as the best peacekeeping force that we in Europe can deploy.
The report makes clear, though, that, in an ever-expanding Europe, there is increasing awareness of regional cultures and also of regional languages.
However, that does not prevent us from speaking the language of our neighbours.
We do so with belief in our own culture and also with love for the culture of others.
That is why it is a very positive move that in the new draft Constitution the Union's linguistic diversity is being recognised.
Fortunately, we have been able to avail ourselves of multiannual programmes such as Socrates and Culture 2000, not forgetting the European Year of Languages 2001.
No agency or action programme, however, will solve the problems that EU citizens who speak regional or minority languages encounter in many Member States.
The right to an education in one's own native language in particular should be guaranteed in all Member States.
There will be limited scope in future budget headings in respect of internal policies for financing activities to encourage the use of regional and minority languages.
By speaking in my language, I would have liked to have stressed the reality of this European Union which we are building amongst all of us on the basis of respect for our own cultural diversity.
Mr Wyn is from my group.
I will continue and conclude in my mother tongue, which is Piedmontese: 'Voeui bin rimarqué si ma son che in Piemunt, che l'è la mia regiùn, ancöi as parlan ?.
Tant'el piemunteis que le aute lingue minuritarie l'han sübi e sübissen ancura adess, en tel 2003, n'upressiùn gravusa da la parte de le Stat centralista italian, e l'è certament l'un dei mutivu per ingagèr nost cumbatiment per uteign sübit il federalismo, in Italia, e duman la piena libertà e l'autonomia del nost bel Piemonte e de la Padania libera. [I would like to add that in Piedmont, which is the region I come from, not only is Piedmontese still spoken, which is an extraordinary language with beautiful literature and grammar that dates back as far as the eighteenth century, there are two other minority languages: Ladin and Walser, that are also spoken in Val d'Aosta.
Both Piedmontese and the other two minority languages have suffered and continue to suffer now, in 2003, from serious oppression by the centralist Italian state, and this is certainly one of the reasons for fighting to obtain federalism in Italy without delay, and demand full freedom and independence for our lovely region of Piedmont and for a free Padania.] Mr President, Commissioner, I have just learned that you would probably have been able to speak Letzeburgesh here this morning.
Along with Mr Grosch, who has also already spoken, he represents linguistic minorities in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
In Eastern Belgium and the South Tyrol, multilingualism can be heard, and, above all, seen.
For this reason, I find it quite incomprehensible that not all Member States have ratified the Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and the Council of Europe's framework convention on the subject.
Those who have problems with this leave themselves open to the suspicion that they are very insecure and believe it self-evident that their own language and culture can only be safeguarded by restricting others rather than through their own attractiveness.
I would urge a bit more boldness on those who still hesitate.
This inevitably leads to the conclusion, therefore, that in the debate on this report and on future Commission policies in the area of linguistic diversity, we are dealing with an issue which is not just highly topical, but which is at the very heart of the European project.
So congratulations on this good report.
Allow me to comment, however, on a single area of concern: as a Catalan speaker, I am aware of the existence in Europe of languages spoken by millions of people which are not thought of as being minority languages or regional languages and which - despite having official status within their autonomous region - are not state languages and are therefore not languages with official status in the European Union.
To deal with the problem of the institutionalisation, the status and the function of these European languages is perhaps the fundamental key to deciding whether the policy of a future European agency for linguistic diversity or the policy on the European institutions is really going to be faithful to the slogan of the future constitutional Union: united in diversity.
I am grateful to the rapporteur and also to the Committee for finding room for sign language in this report and in this programme, which opens the door to its being recognised.
Sign language is not a crutch or a wheelchair.
Not only is it a language used by 15 000 people, but we should also bear in mind that it is the only language in which these 15 000 people can carry on a conversation.
For recognising them as a linguistic minority and acknowledging that their language also contributes to the diversity and richness of European languages, I am grateful to all who have had a hand in this report.
However, we also have to recognise that the television industry in Europe at the present time is not without difficulties.
The industry today is greatly different from 1997, when the Directive was last revised, and barely recognisable from the TV industry of 1989, when the Directive was adopted.
In 1989 there were just 47 television channels in the whole of Europe.
TV is an important industry, with turnover estimated at EUR 62 billion per annum.
The role of the EU must be to help encourage the industry and in no sense to restrict it.
TV is now facing important technological changes: there is more satellite TV, digital TV, convergence with the Internet and new advertising techniques, such as split-screen advertising.
I appreciate the Commission's careful approach and congratulate the Commissioner on her careful and extensive consultation.
However, there are European issues we need to address.
I am as keen as any colleague to encourage European content in television, although primarily that could be helped by the 'MEDIA Plus' Programme.
They help create a European television identity and help our citizens to appreciate and understand the European dimension in their lives.
Euronews in particular is a very effective means of allowing European and world citizens to get a European perspective on current affairs, rather than an exclusively national or American view.
In this report I touch on two particular issues which may be seen as minor but are important.
Finally, I want to raise the issue of those European citizens - often retirees but not only - who move to a place in the sun.
Spain, Greece, Portugal, Italy and France are indeed wonderful and hospitable countries, but for those people from the north of Europe it is nice to watch television programmes from their own country and even to watch their own country play in a football match.
They often ignore the terms of their contracts or even use pirate technology.
Therefore, I thank the Commissioner for her commitment to Europe's television.
As part of its work programme, the Commission organised two series of public hearings, in April and June, and interested parties were invited to participate in public debates by responding to specific questions and forwarding their responses to us.
Based on the analysis of the results of this consultation, the Commission plans to submit to Parliament and the Council at the end of 2003 or beginning of 2004 a communication on the future of audiovisual policy, which will be accompanied by proposals if appropriate.
After the break, the Commission intends to publish a second report on the implementation of the Recommendation based on a questionnaire that was sent to the Member States.
The aim of this report is to ascertain the progress made, to make it possible to make a direct comparison and to include the new Member States.
The first relates to the scope of the Directive, referred to in paragraphs 7 to 12.
However, as long as television broadcasting services continue to enjoy unequal importance and impact in our societies, it would be difficult to reach consensus on the concept of content without frontiers.
In addition, while information society services are at an early stage in their development I feel that it would be inappropriate at the current stage of negotiations to subject them to the more detailed approach of the Directive.
As regards the working group of national regulators, mentioned in paragraph 19, the Commission held a meeting with the regulators in March and the next meeting is due to be held on 14 October.
Some Member States do not, however, see the need for an additional committee and have already expressed concern that this committee may duplicate work already being done.
With regard to self-regulation and co-regulation - paragraph 20 of the report - I agree with the rapporteur that greater emphasis should be placed on co-regulation.
It is up to the Member States to apply the principle of subsidiarity in this area.
My services have received many contributions regarding these pertinent issues and all of these can be found on the Commission's website.
In order to make some progress in this area, we plan to organise a round table on 21 October in association with the Royal National Institute for Deaf People and the Royal National Institute for the Blind in the United Kingdom and to invite the Member States to attend and to report on the situation at national level.
This aspect is thus being taken into account.
This idea is fully reflected in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I would also like to stress that one of the topics covered by the May 2003 Green Paper on Services of General Interest relates precisely to the protection of pluralism.
All interested parties are invited to submit their comments by 15 September.
The Commission will determine its future policy on the basis of the conclusions of this consultation process.
We receive new contributions every day and I would like to allow my colleagues to complete their analysis before informing you of them by way of the communication on audiovisual policy.
The objective is to reform the directive so that it can monitor rapid technological progress, but it also has other individual objectives.
Another conclusion on which we more or less agree is the dual role of the audiovisual media.
The dialogue has started.
The Television without Frontiers Directive has proved its worth as a legal instrument and is now being applied satisfactorily.
This has been stated clearly both by those working in the industry and by the Commission.
The Television without Frontiers Directive provides a negative definition.
It is produced by X or made by Y.
That would perhaps make it easier to settle the ongoing debate in France and other European countries on reality television.
The problem is defining the scope of audiovisual works.
Some works are very easy to define, such as documentaries and films, but not all are.
The second point raised by this debate is the movement of works.
The movement of works and artists is a recurring problem in the field of culture, as I highlighted in the report on the performing arts.
Mr President, the fundamental problem in this audiovisual debate is that we do not dare to define the quality we want to protect.
Secondly, as regards concentration, the problem is very simple.
For both these reasons, I believe that the European Union must have the courage to define what a work is and to define what should be the limit, democratically, between political power and the power of the media.
We cannot, however, close our eyes to the fact that, throughout the western world today, market forces, if left to themselves, almost always lead to serious, dangerous phenomena of concentration and that only a political measure can lay down the rules for a liberal society, the essential basis of which is pluralism.
We are, therefore, facing a major political battle on this issue, taking place in the US, where there is a deadlock between Congress and the authority, and in Europe with the grave problems in England that have thrust themselves upon our attention and the problems in Italy that many of you are aware of.
There is truly a much greater, much wider issue here that affects the whole of Europe: it is an issue of civilisation.
This Parliament has very emphatically spoken out, most recently on 10 November 2002, in favour of greater support for, and underpinning of, media diversity in Europe and against unhindered media concentration.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats cannot, however, endorse Amendment No 10, which was tabled today, as it refers exclusively to one instrument, the directive, and because we will achieve a result in this area only if we balance, in an appropriate and proper way, the competences of the Member States and those of the European Union.
Considerations of media pluralism therefore demand the solution that we called for in our resolution in November.
New technologies require that children and young people be protected in the same way as is provided for in the television directive.
Let us therefore work together towards a new system and new ways of self-regulation with minimum standards accepted by all.
We must unreservedly guarantee basic principles such as the requirement that the cultural diversity of the media be protected in order to maintain freedom of expression, diversity of opinion and pluralism, creativity and the right to free access to information.
We will no doubt have to work towards a directive founded on our demands in the 20 November resolution, and, if all these things come together, I hope that we will be able to do all that media diversity in the European Union requires of us.
In its Green Paper of 21 May 2003, the Commission calls for specific measures to be looked at once again to actively protect pluralism; in its Recommendation of 28 January 2003, the Council expressed the same concern; in its Resolution of 20 November and the two reports by Mr Sylla and Mr Perry, Parliament said likewise.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, our colleague Mr Perry, and say that I am very pleased that the revision of this directive aims to promote values of public interest, that is, cultural diversity and the right of reply.
If we want a society free of violence, which is what we all aspire to, we must invest in it.
Investing in it means investing in children and young people, who are the future of the European Union.
Mr President, Mr Perry has reminded us of where the directive has succeeded and he has also indicated, very politely, where we have gone too slowly.
We took account of the important economic dimension of culture nowadays, its role in the economic development of regions and towns and its contribution to GDP and to the employment sector.
We noted the revolutionary changes brought about by new technologies in many of the sectors of the cultural industries, such as in music, in publications and in the audiovisual sector.
We discussed in detail the importance of the competitiveness of European products, compared with those from other countries of the world, the inequalities of the international trade and the close link between cultural heritage and tourism.
The internal market is growing.
Creators' works must overcome a number of obstacles, such as problems in connection with distribution and promotion and extensive piracy, in order to find a way of reaching the European public.
We need here to analyse the cultural, commercial and economic dimension in order to include the sectors in the definition of cultural or creative industries, as they are called in certain countries.
Finally, we consider that it is very important to have a Green Paper in order to promote the coordination of the Member States and the regions in the sector of the cultural industries, so that obstacles can be analysed, solutions suggested and a way found for the public and private sectors to cooperate, to promote competitiveness and to improve European citizens' access to culture.
It has come at just the right time to highlight the importance of the phenomenon of European cultural industries not only from an economic point of view - to which reference has been made - but also in terms of the potential they offer for cultural diversity in Europe.
These goods are the expression of an identity; they are reference points.
Therefore, as far as cultural industries are concerned, normal industrial policy cannot play the same role, not being adapted to these industries.
Cultural diversity presupposes a solid and varied industrial fabric that guarantees pluralism in the cultural supply within a global market.
This phenomenon alone shows the importance that needs to be attached to this sector of activities that relates to our identities.
I would like to mention some key actions to demonstrate to you that Europe is paying attention to this sector, not only within the framework of cultural programmes, but far beyond them.
As you can see, European aid can result in genuine, concerted and concentrated development of cultural industries.
I would like to point out that since 2002 we have also been developing experimental measures designed to support the music and book industries.
I refer in particular to the emphasis on the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises.
SMEs in the field of culture are clearly more vulnerable compared with similar sized companies in other spheres.
These SMEs frequently produce, what are in effect, public goods.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy would like Member States to look at what policy instruments could be used to promote cultural industries.
Such a review would take into account the unique situation pertaining to SMEs in the cultural sector, particularly those in peripheral regions.
One of the problems raised by this report is the total absence of a precise definition of cultural industries and of any European industrial strategy in this area.
In future, we will have to increase aid for cultural industries in projects for the economic development of regions and towns, through the Structural Funds, and also by encouraging private and public partnerships.
In the same vein, the Commission will have to propose specific measures to combat media concentration.
More than ever, we must promote a European cultural spirit in order to encourage creation and bolster cultural diversity, without which Europe would not exist nor have any influence abroad.
Firstly, the Council's fear of denationalising these policies, which some consider as signs of national identity.
The other reason is the governments', and also the Commission's, fear of using Community resources for subsidies which are not directed towards farmers or large public works.
People avoid talking about culture or art in economic terms when, on the contrary, it should be argued that the cultural industries create employment and generate wealth for Europe.
If we include the audiovisual field and cultural tourism in the culture sector, it is by far the most important sector for the European economy.
In a society in which everything can be bought and sold, culture is in immediate danger of commercialisation, which changes its nature.
Under these conditions, approaching culture in terms of the industry, the market and added value, as if we were talking about cars or oranges, is very dangerous.
Of course, the report expresses a number of concerns about cultural diversity.
However, it is not these that determine its content, it is concerns that the European art markets have lost an important share of the global market, that the European Union has not yet developed its potential as regards the trade in cultural commodities.
Company mergers are considered dangerous not because they result in monopoly control, but because they jeopardise market transparency.
Even piracy is condemned not as theft of intellectual work, but because it deprives these industries of vast revenues, impacting on future investment.
The proposals are in keeping with the concerns expressed.
The report calls for the intervention of the Commission and the Member States not in order to strengthen artistic creation and protect it from commercialisation, but in order to strengthen companies and promote the competitiveness of the European industries.
This sort of intervention will further institutionalise culture and put it under even greater control by the monopolies.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw your attention to the amendments proposed by our political group, in a bid to mitigate somewhat the consequences of the report.
Firstly, I appreciated the principles, the values that are the basis for the report itself, in other words the need to recognise culture as having a principal role in the European Constitution.
Indeed, the motto 'united in diversity' only makes sense when interpreted in light of the wealth and diversity of identities and of cultural and historical roots which are the heart of our European identity.
Their development can also help in particular in reversing isolation, by developing local societies, because it makes use of their comparative advantages and can easily be linked to tourist development and promotion.
I should also like to point out that the cultural industries have sectors which can create employment opportunities, especially for people affected by unemployment, such as young creators or women and the disabled.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, several journalists have told me that 'Plenum Aktuell', the German-language summary of our debates, has recently proved to be particularly deficient.
Until 11 this morning, there were no reports at all, something that seems to have something to do with the reorganisation of the press service.
We will make the relevant checks and, of course, we will improve this service if necessary.
WRITTEN STATEMENT (RULE 120) . (FR) Although of economic importance, culture is above all about citizenship.
The diversity and quality of culture and the capacity to participate in cultural creation are elements of a democratic society that cannot be ignored.
In this respect, public intervention is crucial.
Financial support must be provided for cultural creation and production in order to ensure diversity and vitality and to avoid concentration in the hands of a few, often American, multinationals.
A formidable sword of Damocles thus hangs above our cultural policies.
Mr President, Mr Ebner, I would like, at this juncture, to bring in an oral amendment.
I can guarantee that there is no doubt, I have declared the result entirely convinced of this and I am not going to rectify a vote whose result has already been declared.
It seems to me that the vote that we took on Amendment No 16 is entirely invalid. (Mixed reactions) Many Members of this House asked for a check, which you have refused.
Thus Mr Wieland had the right to do what he did.
I should therefore like to urge you to consider complying with the EPP's request and permitting, at this stage, an oral vote on point 16.
The mere fact that the staff of the Legal Service and Parliamentary Bureau only let us know at 10.40 this morning which texts we have to submit, how we should vote and which amendments they can accept, gives a picture of the situation in which we find ourselves in Parliament.
I will vote against this compromise.
This is about the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and we are not here to decide what should be retained or completely removed.
So when Members propose removing the right to education, the right of asylum, the right to citizenship, the reference to racism, when Members call into question equality between men and women or on the basis of sexual orientation, I say to them that the next time we should not call this text the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union but the Charter of Random Rights of the European Union.
Mr Sylla, I believe that the amendments have been presented correctly, in time and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and what you are making is a political objection rather than a regulatory objection.
Lannoye, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the communication from the Commission on water management in developing countries: policy and priorities for EU development cooperation (COM(2002) 132 - C5-0335/2002 - 2002/2179(COS)) President.
assisting developing countries to benefit from trade (COM(2002) 513 ? 2002/2282(INI)) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Report (A5-0217/2003) by Mr John Bowis, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the Commission communication on Health and Poverty Reduction in Developing Countries (COM(2002) 129 ?
It is also, however, an important partner in cooperation, in particular with developing countries.
I congratulate the Commission on its Annual Report for 2001 on EC development policy and the implementation of external assistance.
I support the Commission in its reform of the management of external aid, which will allow us to strengthen the evaluation and improve the implementation of development policy. . (FR) The Martinez Martinez report calls on Parliament to approve the Commission's 2001 annual report on its development policy and the implementation of external assistance.
The report calls for specific measures to protect indigenous populations.
In these circumstances it is a matter for rejoicing that the annual National Gaelic Mod (Am Mòd Nàiseanta Rìoghail) will take place for the one hundredth time in the town of Oban this year.
It is a great tragedy that the languages of Duncan Ban MacIntyre and Robert Burns have become more or less foreign languages to the children of Argyllshire and Ayrshire respectively, and other parts of Scotland.
These are examples from one country of a universal European problem.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights is helpful too.
I am very pleased with the result of that vote and to have taken part in it.
Mr President, I am glad that this report has been adopted.
The report by Michl Ebner from the South Tyrol is successor to a long line of great reports adopted by this House on this subject since the 1980s, beginning with the Arfé Report, produced by a great Social Democrat from the Valle d'Aosta.
Taken together, members of the minorities will, numerically speaking, be the second largest Member State in the enlarged EU, after Germany but before France.
Since languages are the main component of this diversity, then I am in favour of linguistic enlargement, in spite of any material or technical difficulties that may arise from it.
For that reason, it is very important that it should be the European Union that recognises and protects these languages, over and above the positions of governments. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (NL) The recognition of language diversity within the EU is no folklore.
There are currently 40 million EU citizens who speak a language other than the official national language, and next year they will total 46 million.
The first-class citizens are those who speak the prevailing language at home or who have completely adapted to it.
Within the EU, a stark contrast is starting to emerge between peoples who now have their own Member State and peoples who are treated as minorities within states that predominantly speak a different language.
The language of this latter group is still not being recognised within the EU, unless it happens to be the same of that of the neighbouring country.
Not only does the plan aim to recognise linguistic diversity in an objective way, but also to promote it to the detriment of national languages.
I cannot, therefore, accept that the Commission should establish 'criteria for a definition of a minority or regional language for the purposes of the possible programme for linguistic diversity' or, another source of worry, the desire that the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages should be binding in its effects.
I recognise the need to preserve Europe's cultural and linguistic diversity, but I feel that pushing for the establishment of yet another European agency to that end is a signal that ? (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (FR) We can subscribe to some of the joint resolution's exhortations and agree to collaboration between countries faced with disasters, in particular to help countries such as Portugal.
The text as a whole, however, only hides the Member States' responsibility in their incapability of dealing with the repercussions of the heatwave and the forest fires.
It is because all Member States, even the richest ones, have for years been cutting back the budgets for essential public services.
We are responsible for the disruption of the climate and for the dangerous world that we are going to bequeath to our children.
It is, at the same time, indispensable that we ensure that it is possible to get the long-term help needed to rebuild the social and economic fabric started promptly and without bureaucracy.
Also, for the sake of protecting the forests in future, steps must be taken to improve meteorological forecasts, thus making it possible to minimise the risks associated with adverse weather conditions. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (FR) We have not voted in favour of this joint resolution on the heatwave for the simple and good reason that it does not grasp the social, health and environmental measure of the disaster.
This policy has killed more than 14 000 people in Europe.
We need to make different choices for our society. . (PT) The final text of the resolution goes a long way towards meeting the expectations of the Portuguese people and provides, at last, a response that is in line with the scale of the disaster that struck Portugal in the form of a devastating series of forest fires at the end of July and August.
This means that even the European Union is turning into a totalitarian regime that is selective in who it holds accountable and prosecutes.
Instead, what is needed here is understanding and cooperation based on mutual respect.
The Cubans are convinced of two things, and I agree with them: the first is that the European Union treats Cuba differently from any other country in the same economic circumstances as Cuba, and even from any other country with a similar regime to Cuba.
The debate on Cuba demonstrated that the objective of the ?U is identical to that of the USA: to use various means, to use economic aid and diplomatic relations as a lever in order to bring about a change in the system 'peaceably', methodically, to impose the market economy and to overturn socialism.
It became clear that what the selectively over-sensitive Euro-unifying hypocrites cannot forgive socialist Cuba is not the so-called authoritarianism of the socialist regime or any weaknesses in it, but the fact that Cuba, despite the open war and the forty-year criminal embargo by the imperialists, is maintaining and continuing to improve the standard of living and education of its people, which is the highest in the whole of Latin America, that socialist Cuba and Fidel Castro are a beam of light, a source of fighting inspiration to the peoples in the area and mankind as a whole.
The majority of Members may well have voted for this resolution against the arrests in Cuba, but how many of them remain silent when the great power that they represent supports, finances and arms authoritarian regimes or dictators, in particular those in former colonies, that is to say in its spheres of economic influence now?
We, though, denounce our own state, France, which, whilst claiming to be a country of human rights, keeps troops in several African countries and defends, with weapons if necessary, as in the Ivory Coast at present, authoritarian regimes that have infinitely less legitimacy towards their own people than the Cuban regime towards its people.
The stance adopted in Parliament by Commissioner Nielson on behalf of the Commission is, therefore, justified.
Since I am in agreement with the resolution's main points but feel it does not go far enough, I abstained from voting on it. . (PT) This resolution is one of a range of initiatives responding to the recent escalation in the campaign of interference and aggression conducted against Cuba by the USA over the last 40 years.
This turned me into a supporter of Fidel Castro even before he took over state power at the end of 1958.
It is neither money nor economic power play the lead in that country, but solidarity and the equality of all people.
It is high time that the Council, the Commission and the Parliament provide a human rights' policy that is rigorous and uniform, which does not take into consideration the size and geographical location of a country, nor the state of its relations with the European Union or the US. . (PT) I voted in favour of the joint resolution on Cuba.
The European Parliament had to take a firm political stand against Fidel Castro's regime.
It is a pity that the last President, his personal inflexibility or even his pride prevented Parliament from discovering the truth regarding the result of the vote on Amendment No 16.
The President's right to have the last word in certain matters is founded upon him, or the Vice-President in question, enjoying the confidence of this House.
This gives a distorted view of the situation in India.
After all, that country is the only country in southern Asia that has opted in favour of a secular and pluralist state model.
India is an open, tolerant and pluralist society in which religious freedom forms part of the constitution.
The report is right to denounce increasing extremism and fundamentalism, but fails to separate these expressions of perverted religion from religion itself.
Furthermore, in whose name does this Parliament judge the diplomacy of Member States in denouncing those who 'support undemocratic regimes in various parts of the world insofar as they serve those Member States' own national, economic, military (?) interests'?
Finally, as the wild remarks about the fight against international terrorism show, a fight stigmatised in this report because it 'has threatened human rights protection significantly', naive, moralizing optimism always prevails over objective realism.
It is unfortunate, however, that the report does not only focus upon fundamental rights but also expresses certain other political objectives.
Apart from a few rare exceptions, the report does not show any steps forward, but instead steps backwards in this area due, more often than not, to the required policies applied by the States that want to make us believe that they are guaranteeing real rights for the people of Europe.
In fact, the world of audiovisual information and its immense power to influence the situation in Italy are dominated by groups of influential journalists, generally centre-left but also far left, who constitute a genuine political force that has dominated RAI-TV to date and is present at the highest level in Mediaset. . (PT) The European Parliament's annual report on the situation as regards fundamental rights in the EU is an important tool for understanding how fundamental rights are being respected and protected in Europe as a whole and within each of the Member States.
Many of the points raised concern neither fundamental rights in general nor those at the heart of the European Union.
That is the subject of the report that Parliament should produce, and ensure that it is given a broad political basis. . (IT) Only the Radical Party has, since the beginning of the 1960s, placed the fight against abuse of truth and information, at every legal and political level of large-scale non-violent campaigns and successful referendum initiatives.
Silvio Berlusconi and his enterprises are certainly responsible for choosing, since the 1990s, to turn his media empire of humble origins into an instrument not unlike RAI TV to boost his declining political career.
In Sweden, an unaccompanied child sent back to his or her home country must always be accompanied by someone who will make sure that they are received by a relative or someone else responsible for their care.
Discrimination (page 48): Contrary to what the report says, the Additional Protocol to the UN Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women of 6 October 1999 was ratified by Sweden on 24 April 2003 and entered into force on 24 July 2003.
Trade union rights (pages 65, 101): Sweden does not have - nor has ever had - a trade union monopoly. (page 97): In Swedish legislation, strikes without prior warning are forbidden and referred to as unlawful or wildcat strikes.
The UK Government is failing to protect the rights of asylum-seekers' children by holding them for prolonged periods in the Dungavel centre and the devolved Scottish Government, which is responsible for the provision of education in Scotland, has failed to ensure that they are given access to mainstream education while resident in our country.
The UK Government's record on asylum-seekers and their children at Dungavel is a disgrace and I trust that the Sylla report will be heeded by UK ministers and that steps are taken to ensure that the fundamental rights of refugees at Dungavel and throughout the UK are not infringed. . (EL) The European PASOK group decided to vote against the entire motion, considering that the positions on the ban on women entering Mount Athos, conscientious objectors and the right of Muslims to mosques and cemeteries are unjust, unacceptable and, at the very least, demonstrate ignorance for the following reasons: 1.
Mount Athos enjoys special status, which was secured in Joint Declaration No 4 on Mount Athos in Greece's Accession Act to the EEC. 2.
Greek legislation on proselytism was found to be in compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights by the European Court of Human Rights.
As far as Muslim mosques are concerned, it is a known fact that there are currently 350 mosques and 250 Muslim cemeteries, while the procedure to found an Islamic centre and mosques in Paiania in Attica is advancing. 4.
Article 18 of law 2936/2001 makes provision for a reduction in unarmed or civilian service for recognised conscientious objectors, who will complete reduced armed service. . (EL) 11 September provided an opportunity to speed up measures to apply the most anti-grass roots choices of the monopolies.
Workers' rights and the right to a free state education and health service were cut back even further.
The standard of living of the working classes has fallen.
respect for human rights.
The reactionary legal arsenal is being reinforced with new provisions.
Europe has appointed itself as the sheriff of the USA, especially after the signing of the agreement on cooperation in criminal matters and extraditions to the USA, where there is capital punishment and Guantanamo.
We reject the rapporteur's assertion that the detention powers in the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 are being used improperly.
Only 15 Foreign Nationals have so far been detained under this Act.
Detainees are free to leave the UK at any time to return to their country of origin, and have a right of appeal against the decision.
This is not, however, the case with this infamous report on fundamental rights in the Union, which, far from serving the European cause, emphasises the worst in community federalism.
The reasoning behind such a report is in itself rather strange since, for the Parliament, it consists in denouncing alleged attacks on fundamental rights, attacks supposedly committed by the Member States of the European Union.
It remains, nonetheless, that, controlled by powerful lobbies agitating for human rights; the Parliament would make a fool of itself by adopting this report. . (PT) The tone of my speech in yesterday's plenary did not leave much room for doubt that I would vote against this report today.
As we have seen, that was not what transpired. . (PT) The rapporteur steered a straight course towards this one-sided and partisan assessment of the situation as regards human rights, choosing to ignore the common interest and the institutional assessment which should guide work in this area.
These were not definitions given by Silvio Berslusconi but by Massimo D'Alema, post-communist leader of the then PDS, now the DS, who would be elected less than a year later - by agreement with Silvio Berlusconi and the whole of the centre right - as President of the two chambers - an attempt at a Convention - and immediately after as Prime Minister, in place of Romano Prodi.
Mr President, I voted against Amendment No 5 to the Lannoye report because of assurances given by the Commission that it was not factually correct and that it had not asked developing countries for binding commitments in relation to privatising their water industry.
Developing countries should be free - as we are - to choose whether or not they have privatised or public utilities to provide their water services.
The Lannoye report dissects the Commission proposal, which, in particular, aims to create a European Water Fund for ACP countries.
They are equally affected by a cruel lack of access to drinking water and purification services.
This is why access to water should remain a public service and not be managed on a strictly commercial basis.
This is why we are particularly in favour of the establishment of a European Water Fund for the ACP countries in general and the African countries in particular.
It is particularly shocking that 1.7 million people have no access to drinking water, causing 30 000 deaths per day through related diseases.
While the shortage of drinking water in developing countries has worsened, however, the privatisation of water utilities continues apace, particularly as a result of the conditions for receiving loans imposed by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and structural adjustment programmes which weaken public services and induce under-investment in this sector.
It questions the responsibility of large international organisations that dismantled public services, leading to this situation.
It has, however, found a majority in this House by getting rid of some of the content of the resolution through amendments that refuse to point the finger and, therefore, beyond good feeling, has used its influence to push for a real improvement in the standard of living of those affected.
The adoption of Amendment No 15 which 'stresses that the key issue is not whether water provision is organised by a public or private entity but rather the specific obligations provided by the policy framework; considers that it is up to the public authorities in developing countries to define the legal framework for regulating the work of private operators', changes the essence of the report.
The adoption of this meant that I was obliged to abstain in the final vote. . (PT) More than 2.5 billion people in developing countries have no drinking water, and 3 million die every year from water-borne diseases such as typhoid fever, dysentery, cholera, hepatitis, malaria, trachoma, fluorosis, and Japanese encephalitis.
It is just as crucial, however, to encourage the EU water initiative launched at Johannesburg, costing EUR 700 million.
Finally, I welcome the proposal for the establishment of a European Water Fund to help the ACP states. . (EL) In principle we agree with the rapporteur's finding that drinking water should be a social resource, accessible to all, and not a commodity subject to speculation.
We disagree, however, with proposals that recognise a positive role in water management for the private sector, be it in the form of mixed management by the public and private sectors or with the state defining a legal and institutional framework within which private agencies operate in the water sector.
That is why radical social changes are needed in order to deal with it effectively.
We need to recognise the causes of the lack of drinking water and fight them: whether it be high productivity and intensive farming, economies directed towards growing crops for export, which often compromise the development of the local economy or the liberalisation of public services in the water sector, a condition often imposed by the World Bank or the IMF on countries in the South to benefit from loans.
To remedy these discrepancies, we want new patterns of production and consumption to be implemented, in the North as in the South, based on long-term water management.
What guided us in our final vote on the report was, therefore, whether all the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and designed to improve the report, were approved.
We are not ill disposed towards a code of conduct with ethical clauses for companies that invest in, or trade with, developing countries, but we believe that such a code of conduct should be laid down within the framework of the WTO's and the World Bank's work and not be restricted only to companies within the EU. . (PT) To quote the rapporteur, who is a member of my own political group, if we want fairer trade, contributing to sustainable development and to the fight against poverty, concrete measures must be introduced at the forthcoming WTO Ministerial Conference in Cancun to take account of developing countries' requirements as regards world trade.
We know now that these 'recipes' of a capitalist economic system daily increase the shocking gap between the revenue of rich countries and that of poor countries!
We have, therefore, voted in favour of this report, even though we believe that the WTO, the rich countries' instrument to dominate others, should not be democratised but removed. . (PT) Given the indicators of developing countries' social and environmental unsustainability, the impartial Economist acknowledged a year ago that it would be impossible for living conditions in the southern hemisphere to improve unless the northern hemisphere relinquished a small part of its wealth.
I voted in favour. . (FR) We have not voted in favour of this report, because we do not want to support capital investors, whether in the cultural sector or in other sectors.
This is precisely the case with this report, which aims to strengthen cooperation between European cultural industries.
It is also necessary to emphasise the danger of exploiting culture for European propaganda purposes and, in fine, the possible challenge to national cultural identity (which means exactly the definition of culture as an 'essential and unifying element (?) of the citizens of Europe'?).
For all of these reasons, I will not vote in favour of this report. . (PT) I agree with the rapporteur's observations that 'Europe's cultural industries reflect its national diversity and thus represent an added value to European identity' and that 'culture is an essential element of European integration', contributing to mutual understanding between Member States and their people, which is essential and desirable.
The Commission is aware of the difficult circumstances in which the business communities are currently working in the Middle East region.
At the same time, the European Commission, as guardian of the Treaty, is responsible for guaranteeing the full and correct application of Community law, including international agreements concluded by the Community and therefore the implementation of the EU-Israel Association Agreement.
Following confirmation from Israel that its customs authorities certified goods coming from the settlements as being of Israeli origin, the Commission published a notice to the importers in the Official Journal of the European Union in November 2001, in order to inform them of the situation.
At the same time, I can only reiterate that the Commission has always declared its willingness to cooperate and examine any technical proposal from the Israeli authorities to find a solution for this issue which would respect the terms of the Association Agreement.
Mr President, it is a very sensitive time to be discussing an issue like this.
Not only do I condemn the actions of suicide bombers, I also condemn the actions of the security services of the Israeli state when they act outside international law, making the resolution of that problem even more intractable.
However, some people may feel that this issue should not have been raised because it could complicate the peace process.
Those of us who have taken the initiative on this particular issue believe that, unfortunately, such an approach has resulted in insufficient action on the part of the Commission and Member States.
Mr President, the cavalier attitude the Israeli authorities display towards their obligations to comply with international law with regard to their trade relations with European Union is an indicative example of its attitude to international law in general.
The fact that the European Union is so weak in exerting its pressure on Israel to comply with international law is reflected in the fact that new agreements have been made with Israel in recent times.
The actions of the Israeli Government that deny the Palestinians their human rights are in breach of that Association Agreement.
Several months ago the Community agreed with Israel to expand its preferential import quotas on a number of agricultural products that are largely or mainly produced in its illegal settlements, and these are for export to Community markets.
The Community took this measure without requiring that Israel stop violating its agreement by issuing proofs of origin for settlement products.
The Commission is now saying that it will not be possible to include Israel in the pan-European cumulation agreement, while Israel continues to misapply the origin rules protocol in its existing agreement.
It is my view that the current crisis in the peace process between Israel and the Palestinians is such that the European Union has to exert the greatest possible pressure on the Israeli Government.
In the economic sphere two things need to happen: steps to suspend the Association Agreement need to be initiated on the basis of breaches of human rights obligations contained in the Association Agreement; and legal steps should be initiated to recover duties due because Israel has misrepresented the origin of its exports.
Both these steps require the political will of a united Commission.
Likewise the United States must exercise its enormous influence on Israel to cease its assassinations and abuses of human rights in the occupied territories.
I would like the Commissioner to address those two issues.
Mr President, the Liberal Group suspects that the government of Israel is applying the origin rules of the Association Agreement in a way that derives from its settlement policies.
Although they are given customs access by the EU, they are actually produced in West Bank settlements such as Barkan, the Golan Heights settlement of Katzrin and the Gaza Strip settlement of Gush Katif.
The situation cannot continue for two reasons.
Firstly, Liberals attach great importance to rules; here we are seeing a consistent, persistent breaking of the rules.
Israel should understand that this is not the time to do that.
Unless they respect the clauses of the Association Agreement, the Israelis will have difficulty in convincing the rest of the world that they are acting in good faith in issues such as the peace process as a whole.
Mr President, my colleagues have already made many of the points that I wanted to raise in an extremely clear and precise way, and so I will not repeat them.
I wonder, firstly, whether the European Union's efforts to pursue political dialogue and the participation of the quartet will be strengthened or weakened by the genuine reluctance on the part of the Commission to ensure that the protocol on origin rules and the territorial clause in the EU-Israel Association Agreement are enforced correctly.
These obstacles are also, however, the result of the increasing violations of fundamental principles and the rules of international humanitarian law in Israel and Palestine.
This means that they meet all the conditions of the origin rules protocol.
Commissioner, do you subscribe to this conclusion for the other EU Member States too?
Also, Mr President, Article 79 of the Association Agreement between the EC and Israel stipulates that in the event of possible non-compliance with this Agreement by one of the parties involved, both are required, via the Association Council, to reach a mutually acceptable solution.
I do not agree with the opinion of the majority of the speakers but this question has been around for a long time in this House and it was important to clear the air and see clearly in this history of enforcement.
We all heard Mr Arafat lamenting the current situation and transferring all the blame onto Israel, forgetting once again the fatal attacks of recent weeks.
Now we all know the role that Hamas plays.
From the legal point of view, on the one hand, it is quite clear that pacta sunt servanda - treaties under international law are to be adhered to.
The workers there are laid off, and then the same production operation restarts in the Israeli heartland with immigrants from Russia.
Although I share the idea that knowledge and an exchange of knowledge help build a better world, in the same ways as economic cooperation, I am particularly stupefied by this answer.
Indeed, this position completely disregards the Parliament's Resolution of April 2002, of which it is obviously right to remind you here given the general title of the debate.
When the Agreement began in 1995, just after the process in Oslo, some regarded it as helping to build peace.
Partnerships can only be devised on the basis of mutual trust, and of shared rights and obligations.
Now, the criminal attitude of the Israeli Government shows every day that it not only flouts the concerns of the Union, but also that it outbids the other in this fatal situation.
Finally, and I conclude Mr President, I am aware that the responsibility of the Council, shamefully absent today, is enormous.
Mr President, the Commissioner is right; it is up to the customs offices of Member States to check whether products come from Israel or from Israeli settlements in the occupied territories.
Mr President, it is a fact that the definition of territoriality applied by Israel to determine the origin of its exports to the European Union is not legal.
The legal settlements are the main obstacle to peace.
Only when that has happened can the Member States draw the logical conclusion that they have to ask for verification for all Israeli products exported to the European Union.
The author of the oral question has gone as far as calling for the suspension of the more recent 1995 agreement, even though the Commission has controversially agreed with her and imposed tariffs on goods allegedly exported by the settlements in the Occupied Territories.
Palestine is not yet a state competent to have its own trade agreements, which, controversially, the EU ratified in 1994.
This whole dispute is now subject to a technical resolution under Article 79 of the Association Agreement, which is where it rightfully belongs.
Mr Nielson, let me take this opportunity to remind you that on 10 April our Parliament voted on a Resolution to freeze the Association Agreement.
This colonial war claims more and more victims.
The discrimination against some Israeli citizens is increasing; they are persecuted, denied certain rights because they are Arab Israelis.
The Knesset enacted a law to prevent Palestinians from obtaining Israeli citizenship by marriage.
Even Mr Abraham Burg, a former President of the Knesset, raised the alarm.
In the occupied territories the situation is tragic.
Let us not forget, furthermore, that this question implies a direct condemnation of the occupied territories.
All of us in Parliament have done this before now: it is a commonly-accepted practice, and we also know that, in accordance with the Taba agreements on the devolution of the territories, many of those territories, which were once desert and will now be habitable, will pass into Palestinian hands.
This is the only possible approach and does not prevent the EU from presenting its own opinions and objectives within the framework of global partnership.
In practice these are complex situations.
Clean water, as was shown in Jordan recently, is a vital necessity, and to attain it all the countries in the West Bank region must find a solution both separately and together.
The West Bank environment project is a multicultural and multilateral project which aims to solve major problems threatening the health and welfare of the inhabitants of the region.
The reason is chiefly that, for a project which is under way in a region occupied by three countries, there exists no political forum to agree on practical matters that are essential for its implementation, even though all the parties involved are agreed in principle on the needs and the measures to be taken.
One may without exaggeration say that the EU is at present the only player in the world that could offer a political forum for attempts like the West Bank environment project to build stability and peace through action on the part of the inhabitants of the region.
I have been in Parliament for 19 years and this issue has regularly come up as a political flashpoint.
I have spoken before in this House about the dramatic sights I have seen on the streets of Gaza city, where animals were eating the flowers and strawberries that were part of the Palestinian exports from Gaza to Europe.
As a member of the Commission I do not recognise anything in our discussions or handling of this in the Commission that resembles what some have said here about questioning the unity of the Commission in relation to this issue.
I will repeat what I said in my first contribution to this debate, namely that following the confirmation received from Israel that its customs authorities certified goods coming from the settlements as being of Israeli origin, the Commission published a notice to the importers in the Official Journal in November 2001 in order to inform them of the situation.
In February this year - which was the time that the last internal Member States customs authorities met on this issue - about EUR 100 000 had been collected as permanent duties on these product categories from the beginning of 2003.
Where there is any doubt, or where there is unclear or insufficient information about this from the Israeli authorities, we also apply duties after having checked as far as we can.
This is being regularly reviewed within our Member States through the Customs Committee, which will meet again at the end of this month.
The proclamation of an independent Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capital is the sine qua non to any real effort to bring about peace and restore a climate of security for Palestinians and Israelis.
Firstly, there have in some cases been significant and repeated delays, not attributable to any individual's deliberate wishes, in mobilising and implementing appropriations over the last few years.
These delays, however, have as a rule created significant difficulties for farmers in the producing countries, some of which are among the 40 poorest countries on the planet.
They are sometimes very significant mistakes, to the detriment of some of these countries.
Commissioner, I am concerned at the decline in the amount of assistance allocated in the 2003 budget, especially as we approach the changeover from the current system to a tariff only system.
This represents nearly seven times more than the amounts invoice in 1999 and more than three times the amount invoiced in 2001.
Although we cannot draw clear conclusions yet for the current year, the overall trend is quite positive and a similar disbursements of some EUR 40 million is expected for this year, taken as a whole.
All this is quite complex, there are so many different interests deserving protection, many historical, social and political factors in everything that relates to bananas.
The Commission is well aware of the difficulties in combining the principle of equitable market access with consideration for the structural problems faced by small vulnerable economies.
The Special Framework of Assistance stems from those concerns and addresses them in a tangible manner.
In response to the repeated suggestions by the Commission, several ACP banana suppliers are changing their strategies and seeking more financial support to fund diversification where the banana industry is no longer sustainable.
That date, 31 December 2005, is very close.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, bananas are extremely important products for the economy and for the land use of several European regions, particularly in the Atlantic archipelagos of Macronesia, but are also crucial to some less developed countries towards which we have binding legal and political obligations.
I therefore hope that the Commission will inform Parliament of the decisions it has taken on funding organisations in the beneficiary countries, as well as the calculations informing these and the data it has used and even the legal basis and what it has done with the unused appropriations from budget line B7-8710.
If these criteria are complex it only reflects the fact that we are where we are as a result of negotiations where contradictory and many different special interests had to be reconciled.
The vote will be at the end of the debates today.
It is difficult for us to ensure that the results are monitored or to assess them accurately, because the implementation of the programmes and projects is dispersed among both national cooperation agencies and fixed procedures which tie the receipt of aid in different ways to the acquisition of goods and services obtained by means of that aid in the donor countries.
This practice is known to all of us, I believe, and it is clear proof of a degree of cynicism among the donor countries - in other words, our own countries.
The main thing is that we use the experience we have acquired to push for these ideas to be implemented, bearing in mind certain considerations, such as those mentioned in paragraph 4 of our report, in order to ensure that our objectives are achieved and certain undesirable effects avoided.
I am grateful for the work he has done on this subject.
The proposal to implement changes in the existing regulations will fall under the co-decision procedure and therefore Parliament's role in moving this forward will be fundamental.
One of the problems is that it is very difficult to find concrete, reliable data on the impact of untying.
We will try to convince other donors who are still reluctant to join us, particularly through the work of the OECD 's Development Assistance Committee and its new Working Group on Aid Effectiveness.
Some countries that have been doubting this over the years, including my own, clearly no longer doubt this.
In preparation for the Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development, the Member States committed themselves to continue discussions on the further untying of bilateral aid.
As he said, we now live in a world that is totally interdependent, and the problems of one country are problems for all of us, problems such as poverty, hunger, disease, ecological disasters and crime.
It is our joint responsibility to resolve these problems and to work towards a consistent and coherent strategy.
Development aid can play a pivotal role in working towards solutions, but only if it is free of trade commitments.
Untying aid is a direct way of increasing that effectiveness, but we need to acknowledge and recognise, as the Commissioner has made clear, that among certain Member States tying aid is still common practice.
Commissioner, may I say 'more power to your elbow!' when you see the recalcitrant Member State in court, because we cannot have one Member State playing a different game from the others.
I should like to stress that this untying of aid from trade is not a final step, but it is one means of increasing the effectiveness of granting aid.
The European Union's willingness to take the initiative in this matter is significant as the EU and the Member States are responsible together for half the world's development aid.
The key competition principles agreed in the EU will work to the advantage of the developing countries in this.
Then local sourcing and sourcing from other developing countries will also be possible, as we have already seen, resulting in a multiplier effect on the effectiveness of aid.
In addition to the benefit in terms of welfare achieved in the developing countries, the liberalisation of procurement will also be important within the EU, because the practice of tying aid which still goes on in many Member States also distorts competition among the Member States themselves and is against the rules on competition in the EC Treaty.
This figure is not acceptable to the Commission because we have open competition between the 15 Member States, and adding a sixteenth does not really change the name of the game in terms of ensuring competitiveness when we are tendering.
Therefore, the dynamics of this mainly revolves around a classical case of a single bilateral donor country tying or not tying.
The vote will be at the end of the debates today.
We were thinking both of Europe and of India and it is humbling to us in the European Union, as we work towards improving our constitution, to think that India has achieved this continent-wide polyglot democracy in a secular polity for more than 50 years now.
We are particularly aware, for example, of recent Amnesty International reports on problems in Gujarat and the responses to the 2002 massacre there.
At the same time we welcome the Pakistani Government's assurance that it also deplores and has no time for the terrorist act in Mumbai.
One of the suspects has already indicated that with this act, he wanted to take revenge for last year's anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat, which claimed the lives of 2 000 Muslims.
Over the past ten years, however, we have witnessed increasing alienation between Muslims and Hindus.
Almost half of the recent violent conflicts in the world have a religious dimension.
Consequently, I have expressly asked for this issue to be highlighted in my human rights report.
The European Union should also look into this issue.
Mr President, as the founder of the European Parliament Friends of India group, this resolution is intended as a gesture of solidarity with the people and government of India against the mindless violence perpetrated by a small number of fanatics drawn from Islamic extremists.
They believe the killing in Bombay with the bombing of innocents, including children and members of their own Muslim faith, to be justified and a way of destabilising the largest multicultural, democratic success story in the world.
It is essential that the political stability of India as a nuclear, regional superpower is upheld by all EU Member States and all other democratic nations of the world.
India is a country in which all groups have reached the highest offices, as illustrated by its current President and Head of State, who is a Muslim.
Within 20 years it will in terms of population be the largest country in the world, overtaking China.
These devastating and cowardly terrorist attacks remind us all that the scourge of terrorism is a threat faced by all democracies.
I trust that the British Government will offer India all the support that it can in combating terrorism.
Of course the PSE Group condemns the cowardly 'twin towers' bombings of the Gateway of India and of the Zaveri Bazaar in Mumbai on 25 August 2003 that killed and injured so many people.
Yet members of both the Hindu and Muslim communities in India died in the attack and worked together in the rescue efforts.
Not only did these bombings, which hit India's financial centre, claim the lives of 52 people, they also threatened to jeopardise the peace process in the region.
India has been making major efforts for some time to bring this conflict to an end.
India is, moreover, the only country in southern Asia that has opted in favour of a secular and pluralist state model.
It goes without saying that this raises very important issues, which must be viewed in terms of India's importance, not only in Asia but also in the world.
The objective of the violence was to destabilise society and deliver a blow to the Indian economy.
These attacks are proof that terrorism can strike in any part of the world and have disastrous consequences.
The Commission condemned in the strongest possible terms the bomb attacks that caused much loss of life and many causalities in Mumbai on 25 August 2003.
He condemned the attack, offered his condolences and assured India of EU support in the fight against terrorism.
The EU and India have stood and stand side by side in their fight against terrorism, as spelled out in a Joint Declaration issued at the 2001 Summit in Delhi.
Cooperation in this matter is part of our regular political dialogue at all levels, and we have set up a working group that has already met four times since May 2001.
A strong signal from the European Parliament is thus a very welcome contribution to the EU's expression of solidarity with India.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be at the end of the debates today.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions on the situation in Liberia: B5-0372/2003 tabled by Niall Andrews, on behalf of the UEN Group; B5-0375/2003 tabled by Bob van den Bos and Anne André-Léonard, on behalf of the ELDR Group; B5-0380/2003 tabled by Nelly Maes, Didier Rod and Marie Anne Isler Béguin, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group; B5-0382/2003 tabled by Margrietus J.
van den Berg, on behalf of the PSE Group; B5-0385/2003 tabled by Luisa Morgantini, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group and B5-0388/2003 tabled by John Alexander Corrie and Bernd Posselt, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group.
Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes the peace agreement signed a Accra on 18 August 2003 under the authority of ECOWAS, the Economic Community of West African States.
We are concerned that while this is holding in the capital, there are still problems in the rural areas, with reports even today of tens of thousands of people fleeing into Monrovia from Totota in Central Liberia.
Fourteen years of violence and misrule in Liberia resulted in immense human suffering amongst civilians, as well as gross human rights violations, a breakdown in social and economic structures, and now 85% of the population is living below the poverty line.
We look forward and call upon all the parties to the agreement to implement it in good faith and to establish a transitional government as promised on 14 October 2003, that will hopefully lead to free and fair elections.
We welcome the fact that the European Union has provided aid to that process, amounting to EUR 15 million to date.
There are only 1 500 out of a promised 3 500.
We equally ask that all the states in the region refrain from any actions that might contribute to instability in Liberia and on the borders between Guinea, Sierra Leone and the Côte d'Ivoire.
Mr President, corrupt and ruthless dictators continue to exploit and impoverish many countries in Africa.
I am pleased, of course, that the EU is involved and I want to ensure that this Parliament is aware of the continuing problems in Africa, because it is European taxpayers who in the end become impatient if we are seen not to take appropriate action.
I hope Commissioner Nielson will do his best and keep Parliament informed, because we need to show that Liberia can recover and can perhaps be a model for other African countries.
On the one hand, it is where there are the best opportunities for a regional market to grow and develop, and some states have done well by African standards in making progress in recent years.
On the other hand, there are states - of which Sierra Leone is one example, and Liberia is another - where not only is the state in crisis, but where every vestige of the rule of law threatens to disappear.
A healthy combination of external help, help aimed at enabling people to help themselves, and regional cooperation offers the only chance for this region, racked by crises, to get back on its feet, at least in the medium term. .
It is very important that ECOWAS fully deploys its peacekeeping troops to ensure that the peace agreement is respected on the ground.
We have been informed by ECOWAS that deployment should be completed by 9 September 2003.
ECOWAS is not in a position to carry the financial burden of these operations alone, and following the proposal from the Commission the Council decided to make EUR 50 million available to support the peace process broadly defined in Liberia.
We also welcome the UN Security Council decision to establish a stabilisation force for Liberia to take over responsibility from ECOWAS as from 1 October 2003.
Also, the contributions from Sweden, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom for the peacekeeping force in Liberia are very welcome and we see a strong case for mobilising what I would now call 'partnership stamina'.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be at the end of the debates today.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions on Burma: B5-0374/2003 tabled by Bob van den Bos and Anne André-Léonard, on behalf of the ELDR Group; B5-0378/2003 tabled by Patricia McKenna and Marie Anne Isler Béguin, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group; B5-0383/2003 tabled by Enrique Barón Crespo and others, on behalf of the PSE Group B5-0384/2003 tabled by Marianne Eriksson and Fausto Bertinotti on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group and B5-0389/2003 tabled by Geoffrey Van Orden and others, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group.
If the new Prime Minister, General Khin Nyunt, is really serious about his roadmap to democracy, he will immediately release Aung San Suu Kyi and her colleagues and give them an important role in this process.
The Commission and the Council, in cooperation with the United Nations, should continue to appeal for the immediate release of Aung San Suu Kyi and her colleagues.
Pressure from the neighbouring countries in the ASEAN - China, India and Japan - must be stepped up.
Burma is still the pariah of the international community.
The military junta sees the enforcement of its own power as more important than the suffering of the Burmese people.
The generals' roadmap to democracy has so far only led to prison.
This is not only about the liberation of Aung San Suu Kyi, but also about the liberation of the Burmese people as a whole.
Mr President, I have had two opportunities to visit Burma since I became a Member of this House.
On the first occasion I carried a letter from President Klaus Hänsch informing Aung San Suu Kyi of the award of the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought to her.
The State Peace and Development Council - the former SLORC - has harassed the people of Burma, the National League for Democracy and Aung San Suu Kyi.
The last time she was visited was in July.
On 31 August the United States reported she was on hunger strike.
The regime denies that.
As for free and fair elections, the problem in Burma is not free and fair elections - those took place 13 years ago - but that the military regime is not prepared to accept the will of the Burmese people.
We welcome the pressure they put on Burma and note that the current military regime has refused to allow them to meet with Aung San Suu Kyi.
We call on the Council and the Commission to show their readiness, in collaboration with the United States, to help facilitate the national reconciliation process in Burma.
We call on the Council and Member States to ask the United Nations Security Council to urgently address the situation in Burma.
It is now more than three months since Aung San Suu Kyi, Nobel Peace Prize winner and Sakharov Prize winner, was - to put it purely and simply - kidnapped by the Burmese junta, who have been holding her in detention ever since.
Last July a delegation from the International Committee of the Red Cross was probably the last contact that Aung San Suu Kyi had with the outside world.
Today, in the same way that the dictator denied secretly holding the young woman, the Burmese authorities are denying her hunger strike, made public on 31 August by the US State Department.
The imprisonment and arrest of militants of the National League for Democracy in May quite rightly gave rise to much feeling in the world.
The results of the 1990 elections which, let us remember, were a landslide victory for Aung San Suu Kyi's party, were not recognised by the armed forces.
The Association of South-East Asian Nations now threatens to exclude Burma from its members.
Mr President, before the House today is a resolution on Burma, drafted with the support of all major political groups in this Parliament and therefore backed by representatives of all fifteen countries within the European Union.
It is absolutely unequivocal in its demand: the immediate release of Aung San Suu Kyi.
Aung San Suu Kyi is a symbol of resistance to tyranny and personifies the hopes of the people of Burma for freedom.
These should be just the preliminaries to her release and to the release of scores of other National League for Democracy members and organisers, elected Members of Parliament, senior Party officials and students detained following the violent attack on opposition elements on 30 May 2003.
Each member of the State Peace and Development Council that runs Burma must be held personally responsible for the health, safety and wellbeing of Aung San Suu Kyi.
Let him show that he is serious, lift the barrier on that road, respond to our calls for the release of Aung San Suu Kyi and other political prisoners and recognise the results of the 1990 elections which gave a landslide victory to the National League for Democracy.
To encourage him, much more needs to be done to increase the pressure on his military dictatorship in Burma.
As we have seen in other countries such as Zimbabwe, quiet diplomacy does not work.
Neighbouring ASEAN countries need to do more to bring about change in Burma.
I call on the Council presidency and the Commission to take urgent action, to visit Aung San Suu Kyi, to bring about her immediate release and, in case the SPDC does not respond in a positive way, to draw up new measures that can quickly be taken against the Burmese regime.
In June, we called for the speedy introduction of democracy and for the immediate release of Aung San Suu Kyi, who was detained in what was at the time a secret location.
She has, since 1988, been campaigning for more democracy, and was awarded our Sakharov Prize in 1990 and the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991.
It was partly through our pressure that representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross were able to visit her.
Although the new Burmese Prime Minister, General Khin Nyunt, published, on 30 August, a roadmap for free elections by secret ballot, no firm date has been set for them.
Aung San Suu Kyi has been on hunger strike since 31 August in order to make a forceful protest against her detention.
As a community of values, one that exalts the maintenance of democracy and human rights as its supreme principle, the EU must take a hard line with the junta in Rangoon.
Aung San Suu Kyi and her supporters must be released from detention at last.
In the 15 years the regime has ruled Burma there has not been a single democratic reform.
There has to be a very clear message from the European Union that relentless pressure will be applied to the Burmese regime.
As well as increasing the sanctions against the regime, it is vital the EU should try to secure the cooperation and support of Asian countries, in particular Burma's neighbouring countries.
With Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi reported to be on hunger strike, the EU should intensify its actions to secure her release and the release of other detained NLD members and to support democratic change in Burma.
We should use our liberty to promote theirs.
He has set the problem out very well.
There is clearly a very serious problem, and Aung San Suu Kyi should be released immediately.
There is a real need for the other states in the region to maximise the pressure for her immediate release and to ensure that free elections concur with that.
Therefore it is of the utmost importance that an independent body be given the opportunity to immediately visit Aung San Suu Kyi.
The detention of Aung San Suu Kyi is completely unacceptable.
The EU has repeatedly demanded immediate and unconditional release of Aung San Suu Kyi and other leading representatives of the Burmese National League for Democracy and will continue to do so.
The junta has to understand that her release will serve the interests of the regime, as it has declared its desire to move on in the process of national reconciliation.
But as long as Aung San Suu Kyi and other activists of the National League for Democracy remain in prison, the basic preconditions for this process do not exist.
In this context we would like to reiterate our support for the efforts undertaken by UN Special Envoy Ambassador Razali.
If the new government under Prime Minister Khin Nyunt truly has intentions to work towards democracy and political reform, the first step would be to release Aung San Suu Kyi now and to immediately start a dialogue between the various parties concerned.
The joint debate is closed.
I would, therefore, recommend that that the Union monitors and keeps a close eye on the way in which this measure is implemented, in order effectively to assess the good that it does and to deter any potential distortion of it. . (PT) I have voted in favour of the report currently before us because I believe it is important to uphold preferential access to EU markets for bananas from the ACP countries, as is the need to reduce, by means of diversifying production, the economic dependency of these countries on the profits made from the sale this fruit.
Firstly, under the terms 'protect ACP bananas' or 'the supplier countries', protection really goes to the capital invested in this sector, often though large financial groups in Great Britain or metropolitan France.
Secondly, this vote is destined in the end to be biased in favour of one or other of the players in the global competition of this sector.
We refuse to support one or other of the camps in this rivalry, the winner of which will be one of the multinational groups and certainly not the workers in this sector, nor consumers or taxpayers.
