European strategy for the rights of the child: against "dys"crimination of children and exclusion of "dys" people (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on a European strategy for the rights of the child: against 'dys'crimination of children and exclusion of 'dys' people, by Anna Záborská, Amalia Sartori and Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Roberta Angelilli on behalf of the UEN Group, Zita Gurmai and Catherine Trautmann on behalf of the PSE Group, Adamos Adamou on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Hiltrud Breyer et Raül Romeva i Rueda on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Elizabeth Lynne on behalf of the ALDE Group, and Kathy Sinnott on behalf of the IND/DEM Group - B6-0317/2007). (FR) Madam President, Rule 173 states that a verbatim report of the proceedings of each sitting shall be drawn up in all the official languages.
We now continue with the debate on the oral question to the Commission on a European strategy for the rights of the child.
I believe that the debate this evening will show that they will not be alone and that their problem will also become a concern of the European Parliament.
author. - (ES) Madam President, first and foremost I wish to apologise for the absence of Mrs Zita Gurmai, the author of this oral question on behalf of the Socialist Group, who cannot attend this sitting due to unforeseen circumstances, and so with your permission, Madam President, I intend to speak on behalf of Mrs Gurmai and on my own behalf, since I had also asked to speak.
We are talking about learning disorders that affect a substantial segment of our population.
Community-financed education programmes such as e-learning or life-long learning must also be designed with 'dys' people in mind.
author. - (DE) Madam President, I am pleased, too, that this important topic - the increase in dyslexia - is being discussed here this evening.
author. - Madam President, it is estimated that there are approximately 49 million people with some form of 'dys'ability within the EU.
Take the case of Sean in the UK.
I am very proud of this Parliament in the support it has shown for the written declaration, but have one word of caution.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I thank all those present, especially Ms Záborská and the co-authors of the question, because I think it is very important, not only as a question, as a topic for our discussions, but also in terms of action in favour of those who need more specific assistance or treatment or conditions for their life in society, for education, training and so on.
The Commission Work Plans for 2005, 2006 and 2007 in the field of public health included specific reference to the need for further information and definition of indicators relating to attention-deficit hyperactivity disorders, cognitive retardation and disruption of motor, perceptual, language and socio-emotional functions.
The survey is part of the European Health Survey System and focuses on disabilities and on various aspects of social integration of people about 18 years old.
Following up on our commitment in the Roadmap for Gender Equality, in 2005 and 2006 we launched a consultation with social partners on reconciliation policies.
Having finished the second phase of consultation in June 2007, the Commission is currently engaged in an impact assessment process.
Directive 2000/78/EC, which prohibits discrimination in the field of employment and occupation, covers all citizens, including those suffering from 'dys'-related problems.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, thank you for staying so late and for your very thorough treatment of the issue.
The Commission has been called upon to be more active on this issue and I would like to say that the Commission is active and willing, in collaboration with Parliament and the presidency, to be even more active than we may have been in the past.
