Trade in seal products (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Wallis, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning trade in seal products - C6-0295/2008 -.
rapporteur. - Madam President, we have a compromise; we possibly have before us tomorrow a first-reading agreement.
However, we have arrived at a position where, I hope, we will respect the wishes of those Members of Parliament who signed the written declaration on this subject and we will have respected the wishes of many citizens in many of our countries across the EU who tell us that they do not like what they see of the commercial seal hunt and that they wish to have no association with the trade that results from that hunt.
Seals are very beautiful marine animals - in fact, I have realised during this process that they have great PR - but to some they are the rats of the sea.
But it should be the case that the results of the hunt can be used, and I hope particularly that those parts of seals that can be used by the medical community will be able to be used.
I hope that those communities will be able to continue to exist in the way that they always have.
In particular, I should like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection, Mrs McCarthy, for her positive contribution as regards this specific proposal.
The citizens can now be sure that seal products will no longer be available on the market.
The third element is the exemption for small-scale hunting.
Compromises are always a matter of give and take, of course, yet I believe that this text meets the requirements of all the parties concerned.
You are potentially relocating the problem to China or to other countries, which will be able to accept these products.
I think European citizens want us to endorse it, but this Parliament is also going to have to keep this deeply under review from now on.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, I think we are forgetting that it was this Parliament which first took up the campaign for an EU-wide ban on the cruel trade in seal products.
Moreover, our vote tomorrow will be a decisive step forward in the global campaign to ban the trade.
That means that we as citizens now have the opportunity to ban this cruel trade.
I hope that Parliament will tomorrow vote to back the Internal Market Committee's proposal for a ban in seal trade products.
I thank you, Madam President, and I hope that we adopt this compromise tomorrow by a substantial majority.
The role of the state should be to ensure that animals can live in good physical and emotional condition and in harmony with the environment, and also to ensure that illegally obtained skins and meat from wild animals, including seals, do not reach the market, and that such trade is severely punished.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Madam President, I advocate a total ban on the import of seal fur skins.
The compromise that has now been proposed is better than the original motion.
The PSE Group also considers it important to intervene as little as possible in the traditional livelihoods of indigenous peoples.
The derogation for the Inuit and other indigenous peoples that forms part of the compromise is in line with the wishes of our group.
As Members of Parliament we have a duty to protect people and create an environment for employment opportunities.
I say to all MEPs: please stop this disaster and vote against this proposal. (SV) Madam President, I am very pleased indeed that we have finally reached this point.
For thirty years we have attempted to control and to regulate this hunting.
I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have made this possible. (DA) Madam President, I want to say that I find this matter unreasonable, and when I speak now it is solely on behalf of Greenland, which is part of the Kingdom of Denmark.
It will also be a vote and a victory for all of us who have refused to take 'no' for an answer.
I am very pleased that it is possible tonight to reach a first-reading agreement on this highly sensitive file.
When the regulation enters into force, citizens can be reassured that seal products derived from commercial hunting activities will no longer be found on the European Union market.
Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Ms Wallis, and Ms Brepoels and all those who worked towards reaching the compromise agreement.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 5 May 2009.
in writing. - (FI) It is understandable that the EU should try to make goodwill gestures towards its citizens prior to the elections, but this time the Commission is treading on thin ice.
