Protection of consumers in respect of certain aspects of timeshares (debate) The next item is the report by Toine Manders, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of consumers in respect of certain aspects of timeshare, long-term holiday products, resale and exchange - C6-0159/2007 -.
We have extended the scope somewhat, because in the 1994 directive, a number of products were insufficiently defined, if at all, such as long-term holidays or product exchange, to name but a few.
To my mind, we have managed to make a distinct improvement in this respect, and both industry and consumers are thrilled with the outcome.
Once you had paid up, it was impossible to get back this EUR 1 000 or EUR 1 500 which you had paid in front.
This will, in any event, make it easier in a number of cases to appear before a court in one's own Member State.
I am speaking here about products like discount holiday clubs, where consumers often have to pay a substantial amount up front, ranging from EUR 6 000 to EUR 20 000, for membership of a club, which will only give a right to a discount on future holidays.
I am also referring to the resale and exchange of timeshare which are currently unregulated.
There is, therefore, a compelling case for applying similar rules to these products in order to achieve more fairness in the holiday market.
Consumers purchasing these products will also benefit from the right of withdrawal and a ban on advance payments, as is already the case for timeshare.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, I must thank the rapporteur, Mr Manders, the shadow rapporteur, Mr Hasse Ferreira, and all the other draftsmen and colleagues for their cooperation, willingness to engage in dialogue and readiness to reach a consensus.
In particular, in relation to the point to the rapporteur from the Committee on Legal Affairs, I just want to emphasise that the special section on holiday clubs, which I think is probably the biggest single advance we have in this directive in dealing with that particular type of product, was very much due to the tenacity of Mrs Rudi Ubeda in ensuring that we kept it on the table.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, I, too, should like to thank the rapporteur, on behalf of the shadow rapporteur for my group, who unfortunately cannot be here today, for his constructive cooperation.
The Union for Europe of the Nations Group supports this directive. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we, too, should like to start by thanking the rapporteur, and also the shadow rapporteur and rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the Committee on Legal Affairs.
We want to prevent this happening in future, and I do believe that this compromise will make this possible. (SV) Madam President, we have unfortunately become well acquainted with this problem in my own country, Sweden.
The new directive on timeshare properties will entail much better protection if the same rules apply anywhere at all in the EU to the purchase of timeshare properties.
Through harmonisation and the measures in the directive, consumers will be given stronger consumer protection.
The Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection first held a hearing on this in 2001, exposing all the problems in the market.
Critically, I believe consumers will have the same rights whether they are buying in Varna on the Black Sea or Valencia on the Costa Blanca.
I hope that the changes made will contribute to a properly operating internal market through harmonising European legislation in this respect and therefore, increase the level of protection for consumers.
A healthy market in timeshare and similar holiday products will contribute to boosting growth and job creation in the European Union.
A vote for this package is a vote for consumer confidence in holiday products, for clear consumer information, and for a competitive and responsible holiday industry.
I therefore look to the Members of this House to vote to support an agreement today on rules for timeshare and similar holiday products which will provide real added value for holidaymakers all over Europe.
This directive is, after all, a precursor to the horizontal instrument for consumer protection.
The changes the directive introduces will increase the scope of consumer protection against these practices.
This package of measures is the result of significant efforts made by both the Commission and also Parliament and the Council.
