&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 22 July 2004. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I have the immensely sad duty – a duty my predecessors have had to carry out on previous occasions – to open our September session by mentioning the terrorist attacks suffered by the world.
We cannot, however, begin our work on 13 September without paying tribute, through the minute’s silence we will hold tomorrow, to all the victims of all the terrorist attacks that have brought bloodshed to many parts of the world, as well as to all the victims of 11 September 2001 in New York and 11 March 2004 in Madrid, to name just the most recent and spectacular cases.
I cannot end without once again calling on the kidnappers of the two NGO workers kidnapped in Iraq, two Italian women who as a result of their humanitarian commitment, working to care for Iraqi children, have fallen victim to a kidnap, as have the two French journalists who were working to carry out their duty, which is to inform all of us of what is happening there.
Last month the regime in Iran hanged a 16-year-old girl. &#160;&#160; Mr Stevenson, you will have the opportunity to speak at the appropriate time, when you are given the floor, during the appropriate debate, when all Members may speak for one minute.
The retail chain Lidl does this deliberately, as these people, who are mainly young, have to return to their own countries after the holidays, and will not be in a position to claim the money owing to them.
The red squirrel – our European native squirrel – is now under threat through competition from a larger, more robust rival and through the destruction of its natural habitat, our deciduous woodland environment.
Even before the first Paralympic Games were held in 1960, they were distinguished ... &#160;&#160; I am sorry, Mrs Tzampazi, but I must restrict your speaking time despite your interesting comments. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I certainly do not often speak on behalf of farmers, but my region in the northeast of England has suffered the worst weather and the worst harvest in 40 years.
Firstly I want us to express our condolences to and solidarity with all those who have suffered bereavement, injury and loss.
We in the West must curb our profligate use of energy because it is the poor in the south and east and even hard-pressed European farmers who suffer if we do not. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on the Northern Ireland Peace II agreement, as you are probably aware, the Council has asked the Commission to come forward with proposals for an extension of this programme for a further two years from 2004 to 2006.
I should like to ask you, Mr President, to urge the Commission to comply with Parliament’s resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to return to the issue of hostages taken in Iraq.
Could this Parliament not send a letter to all national parliaments of our 25 Member States and urge them to submit a similar petition, a similar appeal as democratically elected bodies, symbols of respect for the individual, to call for the immediate release of all hostages in Iraq? &#160;&#160; – Mr President, at the start of today's sitting, the European Parliament adopted your proposal that plenary observe one minute's silence tomorrow for the victims of Beslan.
I ask that the European Parliament be present at an international colloquium to be held by a non-governmental organisation in Lampedusa. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the disturbing news coming from the southeast border of the European Union, from the region of Serbia commonly known as Vojvodina.
Of course we are trying to combat these problems.
Our rural development programmes provide support for a wide range of forest activities, providing funds for prevention of fires and restoration of forests damaged by fires, according to priorities decided by the Member States.
In Portugal approximately EUR 149 m from the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund is available for prevention and restoration for 2000-2006.
It has already been mobilised following the huge fires last year in Portugal and Spain and, at their request, it provided EUR 48.5 m for Portugal and EUR&#160;1.3 m for Spain.
In 2003 and 2004 Portugal sent requests for assistance to the EU Monitoring and Information Centre, which then coordinated support offers from other participating countries.
In 2003 Portugal accepted the assistance of two aircraft from Italy and three aircraft from Germany.
It is true that the French have sent two aircraft to help fight the fire in Portugal, but in no way was it done in a coordinated fashion.
Otherwise – in Galicia it rains and in Andalusia it does not – certain Members should perhaps start to ask themselves what the EUR 820 million Commissioner Wallström has mentioned has been spent on. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, every year around this time, as we have just seen, another debate is held on the subject of forest fires.
Fortunately, and even though the effects of fires continue to be too serious and disastrous, the fires which have affected, in particular, the southern Member States of the EU this year have been less fierce, and there has been no summer heatwave causing thousands of deaths.
We will also examine the need for additional prevention measures when implementing the Forest Focus regulation as we will do when considering the proposal for the Council's Rural Development regulation.
This is already serious in itself.
I therefore ask the Commission and the Council if they are aware of this danger, if they share this concern and, consequently, what they intend to do so that we do not take this step backwards.
The European position will, at times, be coordinated following normal procedures involving COREPER. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats takes the view that the oral question put by the Group of the Greens and the debate on the forthcoming meeting of the International Civil Aviation Organisation are neither timely nor relevant in content, for the question presupposes that the USA will be presenting the ICAO with a resolution when it meets on 28 September.
It is also in the passengers’ interests that European airlines should answer questions about the possible effects on air transport and on how they compete with the airlines of third countries – all the more so in view of the extremely heavy economic burdens already placed on European airlines by the consequences of what happened on 11 September 2001 and by the increase in the price of oil.
That, Commissioner, is why most of us in this House wholeheartedly support the Commission’s view that, as you have said, the EU should present as united a front as possible within the framework of the ICAO.
We are not debating a Commission proposal, but the fact that the Commission should keep its hands free to be able to put forward a proposal if it sees the need to do so.
Are you certain that all 25 members of the Council will be adopting a common position and will thus settle for a reserve, if necessary?
Let there be no misunderstanding: I do not want to overlook the economic aspect in aviation, but it must be possible for us as a Union to adopt a policy without anybody tying our hands beforehand. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to the Commissioner for pointing out that every instrument is needed in order to guarantee climate protection, and for describing the ICAO goals as contrary to all the goals that we in the EU have set.
I see this debate as happening at the right time and in the right place, for we must do everything possible to prevent the resolution that the United States of America and other countries are strenuously backing from gaining majority support at the conference in Montreal.
What Europe does is Europe’s business, and the European Union, the Commission and the Council, have to decide what that is and determine what this continent’s future requires.
In this House, we are making every effort to change this on all kinds of fronts, and we must, above all, continue to do this, in principle with our partners in other parts of the world, but if this proves impossible, without them.
It is up to the European Community to demonstrate that transport and the environment are less incompatible than the amendments would suggest. &#160;&#160; Mr President, needless to say, as climate spokesperson for the Socialist Group, I gladly support all my fellow Members who have expressed their concern about the present ICAO resolution.
The Commission was aware of these problems months ago.
There have been discussions with Coreper since July and there is definitely a common position between all 25 Member States and the Commission to keep all options open.
The next discussion in Coreper on the future strategy will take place next Friday.
We are grateful for the support of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The company exporting the cargo stated that it had not intended to send the waste to Turkey, but to Algeria, and that the captain of the ship had acted without its consent.
The company appealed against the decision and administrative proceedings went on until the end of 2002.
If an EU Member State discovers that a shipment has taken place without notification, it has to ensure either that the waste is taken back within 30 days or that it is taken care of in an environmentally sound manner.
Unfortunately, legal and administrative problems delayed a solution until it was too late.
In November last year, the European Parliament proposed to extend the grounds for refusal.
The issue was raised about the ‘polluter pays’ principle, which is one of the fundamental principles in EU legislation and in EU environmental policy.
The debate is closed. (1)
