Preparation of the EU-India Summit (Marseille, 29/09/08) (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on preparation of the EU-India Summit in Marseille on 29 September 2008.
With a population of more than a billion, which should overtake that of China in 2025, and annual growth of more than 8% since 2005, India is set to become an essential partner of the European Union and we consequently want this summit to be an important step in deepening our relations with the country.
Since 2000, when our first summit was held, we have enlarged the scope of our dialogue and cooperation.
The European Union is now India's main trade partner.
This was the case in 2004, when we raised our cooperation to the rank of strategic partnership.
These discussions with our major emerging partners are far from easy, but we must have them and we must work with our Indian counterparts to achieve certain aims.
Firstly, we wish to adopt at this summit a new action plan that is shorter and more operational and enables us to adapt our partnership to the new concerns of energy security and sustainable development.
This action plan should be accompanied by a work programme on energy, clean development and climate change and should envisage cooperation in the areas of energy efficiency, clean coal and renewable energy use.
We also wish to make progress at the summit in our strategic partnership with India through the launch or continuation of specific cooperation ventures.
We wish to bring fresh impetus to the negotiations through a trade and investment agreement.
The creation in 2007 of an individual Delegation for relations with India has boosted communication with the Lok Sabha, the Indian Parliament, and Parliament's delegation will certainly be called on to play a leading role, particularly in terms of the drafting of future parliamentary resolutions on sensitive issues affecting relations between India and the European Union.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, honourable Members, Mr Jouyet, I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Benita Ferrero-Waldner, and it is a pleasure to speak to you today on the preparation of the summit with India in Marseille on 29 September 2008.
Europe's relations with India, I have learned now, have been growing in importance for several years, not only because of growing trade and investment but also because of a shared commitment to, and experience of, multilingual and multicultural democracy.
The second point to mention is that the contacts between the EU and India are intensifying, particularly in education, where the European Union has provided funding for over 900 scholarships to Indian students under the Erasmus Mundus programme, and this funding will be continued until at least 2013.
EU-India bilateral trade has doubled to EUR 55 billion since 2000, and the EU is now the biggest source of foreign direct investment into India while the EU is also receiving increasing inflows of Indian outward investment.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, the EU strategic partnership with democratic, secular India is of critical importance in these dangerous and unpredictable times, as this is a country that shares our values and aspirations.
The recent bombings in Delhi have underlined the serious threat India faces from Islamist terrorism.
Mindful of the instability in India's neighbouring countries, from Pakistan to Sri Lanka, it should be obvious to all of us that we should do our utmost to support India, both as a regional power in South Asia, but also one which plays a major, constructive and global role in multilateral fora such as SAARC, ASEAN and the UN, where it is high time that India be granted a permanent seat on the Security Council.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) The vast majority of this Parliament believe that India is the biggest democracy in the world and that we must increase our cooperation with that country.
It is proper that the wish in our resolution that there should be greater intelligence-sharing should be taken up and honoured, and all efforts to support India in her fight against terrorism with us should be supported - including, we believe, a seat on the United Nations Security Council.
This will be the longest in the world, 95% complete, which gives 3 900 new jobs of direct employment and, I am sure, many thousands more to come.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, India is one of our strategic partners where both trade and politics are concerned.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to start by underlining that my group has a strong interest in good partnership-based relations with India, a country which is regarded as the world's largest democracy.
In the last five years, the Indian National Human Rights Commission has recorded more than 14 000 deaths in police and military custody.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, when India achieved independence in 1947, its 18% literacy rate, unstable political environment and level of economic development in no way hinted at the kind of problems with which we would be faced 60 years on.
Indian firms are taking qualified work from the European Union, programming work, for example in the field of accounting, and this work is often undertaken by workers living in India.
We have got used to Lakshmi Mittal's company being the largest steel company in the European Union.
I should very much like to plead for support for the large infrastructure programmes in India and other SAARC countries.
According to reports, on 23 August this year the local leader of the radical Hindu organisation VHP, Swami Laxmanananda Saraswati, was murdered by Maoists in Orissa.
I have just heard that the Council and Commission will be meeting the Indian Prime Minister, Mr Singh, in Marseille on 29 September.
At the summit in Marseille next week, as well as reinforcing the strategic partnership with India as far as our trade relations are concerned, cooperation in the fight against terrorism must also be extended.
The bomb attack in Islamabad last week has once again shown how much the neighbouring country of Pakistan is plagued by the problem of Islamic terrorism.
Certainly in this political transition period in Pakistan it is very important that relations between India and Pakistan should not deteriorate.
I would like to stress the central importance of continued and frequent dialogue between India and Europe on many issues that benefit from a shared approach - both at Council and Commission level, but also at parliamentary level - so I welcome the group that has been set up in the Indian Parliament, and I hope they will be coming to the European Parliament in the very near future.
In Europe, the strategic partnership with India that was agreed in 2004 should not be a reason to close our eyes to the discrimination against the 170 million untouchables who do not belong to any caste and have no rights.
In 2007 the Indian Prime Minister rightly compared the discrimination against these Dalits to apartheid in South Africa.
We stand together with our Indian friends for common values, for the rule of law and the unconditional respect for human life, values so forcefully embodied by Mahatma Ghandi. (NL) Mr President, nearly a year ago there was an uprising in Burma.
Churches are being burnt and Christians killed in India at present, yet Europe gave the people of India Mother Teresa of Calcutta.
So, whether it is thousands of disappeared or mass graves in Jammu and Kashmir, or the murder of Christians in Orissa and attacks upon them, our commitments to human rights must remain absolute and committed.
A comprehensive bilateral between us and India is not just of importance to us and India but is of global significance. (PL) Mr President, Europe is founded on Christianity, and we should always be guided by Christian values.
The European Parliament must send out a clear message that it places the defence of these values above short-term economic interests. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the EU-India Summit marks a new stage in the deepening of relations between the European Union and India.
We want to promote economic development in India.
One sensible and genuinely necessary measure would therefore be to abolish the senseless rules that prevent passengers from taking liquids on board at last, and to come up with a more sensible solution. (PL) Mr President, as the EU-India Summit approaches, we ought to reflect on the prospects for increasing cooperation with India.
The Union is India's main economic partner, but there is still scope for our companies to improve their position in those sectors of the Indian economy that are undergoing dynamic development.
Above all, we must not neglect the cause of religious freedom in India.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, I would like to thank everyone for this debate, which has shown the importance we attach to the development of our partnership with India, because it is a power that contributes to international and regional stability, because it is, as has been said, the largest, most populous and most democratic country in the region and because it is a country that, in spite of the difficulties that have been mentioned, upholds cultural and religious pluralism.
However, as Mrs Gill said, we must provide constructive criticism and we must make sure to praise the courageous attitude, which has been referred to by several speakers, of the Indian Prime Minister, who described these events as a national disgrace and was quick to dispatch 3 000 police officers to Orissa.
We wish to see greater stability too and hope that the negotiations can bring results with regard to the situation in Kashmir and India-Pakistan relations.
In conclusion, I reiterate that the European Union is alone in developing a firm dialogue with all the emerging countries and which applies to each partner the same human rights criteria, with a compulsory clause appearing in all new agreements from 1995 that requires respect for international law, whether it is in the form of the International Criminal Court, the United Nations conventions on political rights or the application of social and environmental rights.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) In the run-up to the EU-India Summit in Marseille on 29 September, I should like to draw attention to certain dramatic events.
I should like to express my deep distress and concern regarding the attacks on Christians in Orissa, and in particular in the Kandhamal district.
in writing. - (PL) India is an important partner for the European Union.
