Climate change and developing countries in the framework of the UN Conference on Climate Change in Copenhagen (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on climate change and developing countries in the framework of the UN Conference on Climate Change in Copenhagen.
Mr President, we are at a decisive point in time.
In just under two months' time, the world will sign an agreement in Copenhagen for combating the climate challenges that we face.
This agreement must meet three conditions: it must keep global warming to less than two degrees Celsius, it must encompass all nations and it must adapt future efforts to higher levels of ambition as new knowledge becomes available.
With just 48 days left to the opening of the UN's major Conference on Climate Change, it is high time that political will was transformed into concrete actions.
We are therefore taking an intensive two-track approach: firstly, sending a powerful message to our negotiating partners; and secondly, bringing the EU together behind a strong negotiating mandate ahead of the Copenhagen conference.
The EU has already laid the foundation for this with the climate and energy package agreed on by the European Parliament and the Council in December 2008.
The negotiations will be concluded in the European Council next week and I know that many of you will be following this closely.
I am pleased that some of you will also be able to be present in Copenhagen.
Emissions must be restricted to the level required to keep global warming down to less than two degrees Celsius.
The EU will reduce emissions by 30% by 2020 provided that other parties also make adequate commitments.
Emissions should be cut by at least 80% by 2050.
However, measures by the EU alone are not enough to ensure that global warming does not exceed two degrees Celsius.
Emissions need to be cut by approaching 30% by 2020 compared with the situation where no measures are taken.
Development issues must be absolutely central in the agreement reached in Copenhagen.
The European Council has concluded that climate change is undermining efforts to combat poverty and achieve sustainable development.
Such a structure would also allow us to assist the very poorest and most vulnerable countries, which are often the hardest hit by climate change.
The Council is aware of the scale of the financing required.
The Commission estimates that the costs will amount to nearly EUR 100 billion per year in the developing countries by 2020.
We in the EU are also prepared to provide prompt financing for immediate measures in the period up to 2012, as a way of increasing trust between North and South in the climate negotiations.
The European Parliament has a very important part to play in this work if we are to achieve our goals in Copenhagen.
You are already aware that there will be no ambitious deal in Copenhagen if the concerns of the developing countries are not taken into account, not only those of emerging countries, but also very much the concerns of the most vulnerable and the poorest developing countries.
Nevertheless, reaching a good deal in Copenhagen is in our common interest.
Developing countries are the most vulnerable countries to climate change.
We have to combine our efforts.
There is no place for North-South confrontation when you are dealing with climate change.
I would even go further and say that no other alliance can be as determining and effective as the one engaging the most vulnerable countries and the ones who have put on the negotiating table the most ambitious proposals to fight this plague - that is to say, Europe.
There can only be a single development strategy, which incorporates climate concerns pursuing the objectives of sustainable development and poverty reduction.
We are only 50 days away from Copenhagen.
Expectations are very high.
That is what Europe has done, and that is what we expect our partners to do as well.
We are all conscious that a deal on financing will be crucial to achieving an agreement in Copenhagen.
We strongly hope that other developed countries will follow our paths as the pressure grows before Copenhagen.
Mr President, I am very pleased to see you here for this debate, particularly as you are a former member of the Committee on Climate Change.
President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, it is absolutely right that the European Union should send a clear signal to Copenhagen.
I have been involved with this since the climate conference in Rio in 1992.
There are some who simply put up the money, who want to put 150 billion on the table each year, starting now.
The economic losses due to climate change are estimated at more than USD 125 billion per year and, once again, 90% are borne by developing countries.
The Union's contribution should not be less than EUR 35 billion per year by 2020 and, from 2010, between EUR 5 and 7 billion should be made available to the countries of the South to cover the most urgent requirements.
Mr President, Mr Carlgren, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the world's future will be at stake in Copenhagen, but before that, it is the credibility of the European Union, as the global leader in the fight against global warming, that will be at stake at the end of October in Brussels.
The Member States must make climate-related financing proposals that are proportionate for a tragic situation.
The effects of climate change could destroy the progress made in some developing countries and could quite simply prevent the Millennium Development Goals from being achieved.
It must lay its cards on the table now in order to relaunch the negotiations.
The Union cannot reasonably pledge less than EUR 35 billion in public finances.
It goes without saying that these funds can only supplement those already pledged for official development assistance, all the more so because the commitments made in this area are not always honoured by our Member States.
Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the future of our planet is in our hands.
Mr President, Mr Carlgren, Commissioner, I would like to begin by responding to the previous speech.
I do not believe that the European Parliament or the European Union should restrict themselves to modest ambitions in this area.
Without a global agreement, we will go nowhere.
We talk here about assistance for the poorest countries, which is all very well, but if you look at the current numbers for greenhouse gas production, you can see clearly that even if we were more ambitious in Europe and actually disconnected all of our energy sources, it would not change anything at all in terms of climate change as it is simply impossible for us to slow down this phenomenon.
We know there is a need today to talk not only about China, which is repeatedly mentioned, but also about other rapidly developing economies such as Mexico, Brazil, South Africa and particularly India.
Mr President, we must give support to developing countries to help them adapt to climate change - a phenomenon for which they are not responsible, but as a result of which they are suffering disproportionately.
As we turn our attention to the United Nations negotiations in Copenhagen, what we need is solidarity that is real and practical.
This support must be in addition to our Overseas Development Aid.
For example, significant help to combat deforestation will be vitally important in a comprehensive agreement.
Mr President, I would like to thank more or less everyone who has taken part in this debate for the support you are giving the EU in its highly important work in the climate negotiations.
Consequently, I also agree with Mrs de Keyser's challenge to developed countries to finally meet the 0.7% goal for development aid.
However, Official Development Assistance will also play a part in ensuring that development issues are integrated with climate policy.
Consequently, both ODA resources and new funding will be required.
I believe that those who deny the climate problem are actually passing on the bill to the ordinary people.
The economic crisis provides an excellent opportunity to increase investments in green initiatives; in other words, in new green products, in new companies with green production, in growth companies with green production, and in new jobs created through green initiatives.
It is also a way of rejuvenating our economies.
We must take the lead in the offensive towards a low-carbon society, which will also create the conditions for real development opportunities in developing countries.
It is also a way of finally turning to the rapidly growing developing economies and telling them that developed countries have a responsibility for the poorest and most vulnerable; but the fastest growing economies among the developing countries - and China already accounts for the world's highest emissions - must also shoulder their responsibility and make a contribution to solving the climate problems.
With this approach, Europe will be able to play a vitally important role as we lead the way towards an ambitious agreement in Copenhagen.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, firstly, what I have noticed in the debate is that all political groups agree on the principles that we should put forward in Copenhagen.
However, we will not only have to support developing countries in this spirit, but we will also have to be courageous with regard to our own industries and our own economic operators.
That is something that we will certainly have to come back to after Copenhagen. (NL) Mr President, following 10 years of discussion, we are now approaching the Copenhagen climate change conference.
We have 50 days left in which to reach an ambitious agreement with binding targets, not only for Europe but also for the United States and countries such as China and India.
An ambitious agreement requires adequate financial resources - as was mentioned a moment ago in this debate - and these not just from the European Union.
All countries will have to provide financial resources so that developing countries, too, can participate in a climate agreement.
After all, solidarity with the very poorest must be firmly embedded in any climate deal.
Yet the United States and the emerging economies, too, must put their hands in their pockets.
The first, which has already been mentioned, is, of course, the financing of climate efforts in developing countries.
The EU's contributions to developing countries must be at least EUR 30 billion per year by 2020 and we must provide substantial support for restructuring measures as early as 2012.
Reallocating money that has already been promised would only jeopardise our ability to reach a global climate agreement.
Secondly, we must take the two degree target seriously.
I will not go so far as to say that everything depends on the European Union, but without determination and credibility, as Mrs Joly has just mentioned, nothing will be achieved in this area.
It made a commitment in 2005 concerning the level of official development assistance, which must reach 0.7% in 2015.
The sum of EUR 35 billion has just been mentioned; we are talking here about an additional EUR 35 billion.
This should not, under any circumstances, undermine the efforts that must be made in the context of combating deforestation, for example, where the responsibility - I am also keen to point out - of emerging countries, some of which are members of the G20, is overwhelming. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a Finnish poet compared humanity to passengers on a train who are on a journey to hell, but who focus their attention on squabbling over a seat in first class.
The best way we can help break the deadlock over climate talks is for the EU Summit next week to make an offer to finance climate measures in the developing countries.
If we are honest, we must recognise our historical responsibility for climate change and that our emissions per capita are still many times greater than those of China or India, for example. (NL) Mr President, the climate change summit has to succeed, and so Europe must speak with one voice and set its sights high in the negotiations.
Our industrialised countries have greatly contributed to climate change, and therefore bear responsibility for providing developing countries with adequate and sustainable financial and technical support.
That is why we are saying that an annual minimum of EUR 15 billion must go into the Climate Fund, plus a contribution from the other major world economies.
They, too, must face up to their responsibilities.
This text lays down an appropriation of EUR 30 billion a year until 2020 for countries such as China, India and Brazil, which are our most dangerous and dishonest competitors, and, at the same time, asks our industries to further cut emissions, with serious economic consequences.
We will not do it by promoting the strong message from Europe that we will make cuts of not 20%, but 30 and 40%.
What is more, there is no decision as to what mechanism of cofinancing by Member States would be introduced, and we know that proposals on this are very diverse.
Of course, we can understand arguments which say that we should be cautious about making specific declarations, and that we should wait for proposals from other countries, especially those which have strong economies.
The poorest countries of the world have contributed to climate change to the least extent and, at the same time, are bearing the greatest consequences of that change.
The significant dependence of many of the poor countries on agriculture and fishing, and also their weak infrastructure, leave them in a very difficult situation when it comes to climate change.
We must break through this logic in Copenhagen by introducing new financing mechanisms.
Development policy must also be coordinated with climate policy from now on.
This is necessary for us, but it is even more necessary for the countries of the South.
That is why we will have to find the right level of financial and technological compensation.
Extending Europe's ambitions to the entire planet would result in global warming of 4 degrees.
However, it is Europe that holds the key to Copenhagen.
Mr President, the way in which certain Member States today use aid for the countries of the South as a negotiating tool is, in our view, absolutely shocking.
The EU, in setting ambitious targets for 2020 and 2050, has acted courageously and must now urge others to do the same.
We cannot meet our targets without cooperation from other states.
We need the US and emerging economies such as India and China to form a partnership with us for the future of our planet.
They still have time to take a fresh approach that will be less environmentally damaging, and we must help them in the planning and building of the infrastructure which will achieve this. (PT) Mr President, the approach to the problem of climate change has been stripped of certain essential aspects and, above all, skewed by so-called 'market solutions'.
Of course, this is indicative of the fact that, as independent science has now confirmed, the globe is actually cooling and has been cooling since 2002, and temperatures have been broadly flat since 1998.
I think that it is even one of the victims of this phenomenon because drought and floods are affecting us all in Europe with ever-increasing regularity, but their impact is felt primarily by farmers.
I also include myself among the MEPs who believe that we need a common agricultural policy in the future as well.
We need it so that we can develop new models and new methods of production to restore the agricultural and domestic biodiversity which we had already lost 70% of at the start of this millennium.
I would like to think that this is the kind of message and approach which will be in evidence in Copenhagen in two months' time and that the EU's policy in this area will be seen in a concrete and strategic manner, as well as in budgetary terms, to treat agriculture as a solution, as I mentioned at the start of this speech. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is politics, and not religion, that we are debating here.
A further fact is that Copenhagen is an international conference and that the Community's CO2 emissions make up approximately 17% of the global total.
In the light of this it makes sense to operate a policy that makes it possible to be energy and resource-efficient and to do so at Community level so that we can continue to play a leading role internationally from a economic policy point of view, but also to offer help to other States, especially less developed States, to take the same path.
The opinion polls show that people in Europe do care about climate change and they do understand.
That is why all the mainstream parties in this House are backing the Council and the Commission in Copenhagen and why we backed the legislative package last year.
Last night in the Environment Committee, Members voted by 55 to 1 to back an ambitious negotiating position of the European Union in Copenhagen.
If you can promise all this, then you will also achieve a 40% reduction - and then we will all leave here with a smile on our faces. (PL) Mr President, the position of Parliament on the global division of obligations concerning CO2 reduction unfortunately lacks balance regarding the way the costs of this reduction are to be borne.
We are trying to force on Member States norms which are lethal to their economies while, at the same time, not requiring anything specific of the countries which bear the greatest responsibility for CO2 emissions on a world scale.
The sum of EUR 330 billion until 2020 means a contribution from EUR 16.5 billion up to as much as EUR 40 billion from a country like Poland.
The Council is talking about EUR 100 billion by 2020.
There are various estimates, including those that mention the need for EUR 120 billion per year, every year, to support developing countries.
I think that the European Union, as it takes the lead on this issue, has a duty to put additional measures and additional proposals on the table.
Madam President, Commissioner Olli Rehn has praised this Parliament for its activities in bringing about the climate protection package and, in fact, we aim to continue to be ambitious.
Last night, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety voted 55-1 in favour of adopting a resolution that sets high targets for the negotiations in Copenhagen.
We need a global pact against climate change and that means that we also need a global pact of solidarity of the rich countries with the poor ones.
Climate change represents an opportunity for us and also for the developing countries to set in motion low-carbon development with new technologies, together with the modernisation of the infrastructure.
They must not simply be dependent on funds from the budget, but must also have other sources of funding.
We must, of course, take account of intellectual property.
The World Bank states clearly that the amount concerned must be at least EUR 80 billion.
It is the opportunity for the EU to speak with one voice and find solutions to a problem which is affecting us all.
What concerns me is that we are talking about quantitative targets which will not have to be met until 2020 and 2050, respectively, while the experts are warning us that we need to start reducing global emissions as early as 2015.
Thirdly, I would like to point out that we cannot close our eyes to reality.
This is why we also need to devote a great deal of attention in international negotiations to the continuing development and use of technologies which enable fossil fuels to be used efficiently, without emitting greenhouse gases.
There is one more thing that Europe can do right now: we can increase funding for the Seventh Framework Programme, which has been designed for the purposes of international cooperation on climate change. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Carlgren, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of climate change will keep us occupied much longer than the financial and economic crisis.
This is because these two transport sectors are growing to a disproportionate degree and are therefore contributing in a disproportionate way to global warming.
The Union is committing to ensuring that 20% of all our energy needs will come from the renewable energy sector by 2020.
The development of such technologies is a vital component of our strategies to achieve our climate change targets.
We must ensure that we maximise funding under the seventh and eighth EU research and technology framework programmes between now and 2020. (GA) The investment in green technology will help to create jobs in Europe at a time of economic crisis.
So next week's European summit in Copenhagen is the last occasion for the Centre-Right in Europe - with the Swedish Presidency of the Council, and Denmark, as well as France and Germany, being ruled by Centre-Right politicians - to act responsibly. (PL) Madam President, the European Union is seen as a leader in the international arena in the area of promoting dialogue on action against climate change and setting policy priorities for the reduction of CO2 emissions.
Therefore, we should also be careful about increasing pledges on reduction from 20% to 30%, since other industrialised countries are not showing the will to set themselves such ambitious goals, while financial support for developing countries should also be a realistic undertaking.
Talk of 2020 or 2050 is not good enough.
This means that in some places there is no water.
First, it has claimed that 90% of energy efficiency measures can be financed by developing countries themselves.
That is EUR 30 billion per annum.
Also, the idea that the international carbon market can fund EUR 38 billion a year is unrealistic.
The Copenhagen Summit must have the commitment of the world's nations to find a balance between four important objectives, the first being, of course, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but it is also a question of not holding back our economy, of preventing environmental dumping and of promoting Europe's new technologies.
Therefore, on this subject, since we must take account of the poorest countries, I should like to draw your attention to developing countries, in particular, to the most advanced developing countries.
Success will consist in promoting the dissemination of technologies in the least developed countries in return for the recognition of intellectual property rights and the opening up of their markets to these technologies. (ES) Madam President, the two most serious crises in the world are poverty and the effects of climate change: two crises that will be even more closely linked to each other in the future, two crises that become more devastating as each day goes by.
That is why we need to act quickly and determinedly for patient planet Earth.
We also adopted Amendments 198 to 202 on the inclusion of aviation - as mentioned by Mr Groote - and marine transport.
At the EU summit in the run-up to Pittsburgh, and in Pittsburgh itself, no progress at all was made on this.
These are people who depend on the services provided to them by natural ecosystems and people who have contributed nothing to climate change.
That is why protecting and extending forests, on the basis of natural processes and without commercial intentions, should be the top priority of our policy, both in order to combat and to adapt developing and developed countries to climate change. (EL) Madam President, I should like to take a position on the specific but very important matter of shipping in connection with Copenhagen and the developing countries.
I also wonder, having been informed that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance refused yesterday to back a debate on the correlation of targets for shipping with targets for land transport, if driving along a European motorway in a luxury car at 180 kilometres an hour is more ecologically friendly than carrying food and raw materials for the planet's economy. (FR) Madam President, Mr Carlgren, Mr President of the Commission, we are facing a challenge for humanity, a challenge for the future generations.
Today, with our debate, but also with the drafting of a resolution by Parliament, we are once again calling on the European Union to maintain its leading role in this necessary policy to combat climate change.
Let us remember that we must speak with one voice if we are to maintain our credibility.
Yes, we must sign an agreement in Copenhagen in order collectively to ensure that, by 2020, there are 30% fewer greenhouse gas emissions than there were in 1990.
Not only is it necessary for developed countries to substantially reduce their emissions, but developing countries must help achieve the targets too.
It follows that the industrialised countries must provide developing countries with adequate, long-term and predictable financial and technical support to encourage them to make a commitment to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
Thus, allow me to address two areas that I feel are necessary for our future.
Contrary to what was said just now, particularly by some of my fellow Members from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Europe has begun to assume its responsibilities in terms of environmental protection, since in December 2008, the energy and climate change package was adopted.
With this package, Europe will have all the legitimacy it needs to guide the negotiations towards the definition of an ambitious, practical and global response to the challenges of climate change.
The agreement that must be reached in Copenhagen will have to be based on a principle of shared responsibility, but also of differentiated responsibility.
We also need to set an example, not least by committing ourselves to an ambitious programme aimed at an 80% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
At the same time, we must also create the conditions to ensure that developing countries can participate alongside us in this global effort.
Should Copenhagen not result in our international partners making firm, shared commitments to take concrete action, then, as the last speaker just said, we in Europe will have to impose a carbon tax at our borders.
Europe has made important steps by defining sources of financing and ways of organising it, but now the time has come for us to persuade other developed countries to take their share of responsibility, bearing in mind that support for efforts by developing countries to combat climate change also affords an opportunity to combat global inequalities and to narrow the divide between developed and developing countries.
Closing this legal loophole and substantially supporting climate refugees is a basic obligation of the international community in which the European Union must take a leading role. (PT) Madam President, Mr Carlgren, Mr De Gucht, the European Union should continue to play a leading role in the international negotiations to achieve an ambitious agreement in Copenhagen.
Developing countries will be faced with a cost of about EUR 100 billion to reduce their emissions and adapt to the effects of climate change.
Some of the funding will come from the private sector, but international public funding will also be necessary, in addition to official development aid.
The EU should show an appealing example, not just by making commitments to reduce emissions, but also by promoting renewable energy and increasing energy efficiency.
Let us not forget that in the European Union too, there is a considerable gap between those countries successfully implementing new technologies and saving energy and those that are straggling behind.
The strategy has proven ineffective because emissions have increased in absolute as well as in relative terms.
The starting point for this should be the ideas on sustainable development in the UN's Millennium Development Goals Report.
The world can no longer afford a poor agreement on climate.
The International Energy Agency regards it as necessary to come to an agreement in Copenhagen in order to direct the investments which were delayed due to the crisis into investments in the environmentally sustainable energy sector.
These and many other solutions will be the essential growth sectors of the future.
Many of these new solutions require the efforts of our scientists; some can only be created by our own efforts. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have noticed that the vote which took place yesterday in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has been mentioned several times.
I would, however, like to make it clear that not everything can be put down to one single extremist ideological position.
We must go to the conference with strong positions and clear ideas certainly, but also with the absolute aim of sharing our efforts fairly among, first and foremost, all the industrialised countries, which must accept equivalent emissions reduction targets.
As we know, however, these countries are often the main victims of global warming, but they are not responsible for it.
This is what obliges us and will oblige us to find new sources of finance.
Our businesses face major challenges, but there are also great opportunities for new jobs and for dealing with a number of social crises.
In the European Parliament, there are Members who want the thresholds set so high that it will be impossible to achieve a solution in Copenhagen, while others want to insist on only voluntary solutions.
We must ensure that consumers are given the opportunity to use their power in the market through knowledge and transparency. (RO) Deforestation, a phenomenon often alluded to during this debate, is certainly something which affects developing countries in particular.
I would like to mention in today's debate the conclusions from a study carried out recently which highlight that almost half of the agricultural area in the world has at least 10% forest cover.
It goes without saying that farmers would make greater efforts to protect this vegetation if they were given sufficient finances to do so.
Crops of this type, which are less viable than monocultures, are often abandoned.
Let us not make this a beauty contest about who is more or less ambitious, more realistic or less realistic or more or less willing to pay.
We need four clarities, because too much is at stake: we need a clear and ambitious political stance; we need a clear commitment; we need a clear path and clear deadlines; and last but not least, we need clarity on financial support.
I believe this should be put on the agenda for Copenhagen, but it should also be put on the agenda for the forthcoming European Union summit with India and other summits with the countries affected.
The main cause of these disasters is obviously the rampant development of certain groups of activities resulting in a rise in carbon dioxide emissions and global warming.
We cannot therefore procrastinate in any way in adopting specific measures for our own sake and the sake of future generations. (FI) Madam President, it is very important to make the switch to a low-carbon world fairly and to have a viable policy system, because the market never has any time for fairness.
That is why the Copenhagen meeting is important.
The inability to resolve this situation is highlighted by the fact that according to estimates, almost 40% of the logging in the world is carried out illegally.
Based on what I have described, we must tighten the regulations governing sustainable forest management.
It is very difficult to ask people to look at climate change mitigation if their basic needs for food are not met.
However, we need a new approach to climate change that takes its impact on security, economic recovery, immigration and even combating terrorism into account.
The major obstacle to an agreement in Copenhagen is the question of funding.
If that does not happen, I think that this generation will have missed an exceptional historic opportunity. (PL) Madam President, in the context of our debate, I should like to draw attention to two issues.
Firstly, when submitting a proposal regarding the limitation of CO2 emissions and the means allocated for developing countries, we must not forget the present economic and financial situation brought about by the world crisis, because setting ambitious goals is very important, but I think that achieving them is even more so.
Research carried out at the time of the Climate Conference in Poznań last year showed that society does regard climate change as a serious problem, but thinks that solving this problem is a matter exclusively for the authorities.
We need a campaign to make people aware that the way we live, and the way we work, has an economic and an ecological price attached. (RO) Development and cooperation mechanisms and the allocation of considerable resources to developing countries for tackling climate change are important measures in terms of concluding an international post-Kyoto agreement.
However, the best argument for persuading other states to comply with a post-Kyoto agreement is provided by the measures which the European Union is adopting in order to fulfil the commitments that it has already undertaken.
In the case of ETS sectors, financing mechanisms are required for the low-carbon economy.
Like many others, I would draw attention to the fact that, in order for this to happen in regions of great poverty, this House, the Council and the Commission will have to take cognisance of the cost involved and there will have to be a strategy in order to tackle this.
We need greater investment in technological advancement and, above all, investment in the artificial reduction of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and in the development of a fusion reactor.
Naturally, the broad political support of the European Parliament plays a very important part in deciding Europe's position in the negotiations.
Parliament's commitment is very important for the 48 days remaining before the conference in Copenhagen.
That means that we must go out into the rest of the world and put pressure on other countries.
A global threat calls for a global response.
We are talking here about the long-term objectives of the EU, which must be to reduce emissions by more than 80% by the year 2050.
We are talking about how to encourage other countries to increase their emissions reductions, so that we also achieve our 30% reduction in emissions.
Written statements (Rule 149) We must not regard the costs involved in the transition to clean energy sources as an economic burden that will increase companies' production costs and public expenditure as part of national budgets, but as an investment that will bring tangible benefits in terms of creating new jobs, technical innovation and a clean infrastructure which will support the sustainable development of our respective countries.
Europe must show courage and adopt a consistent stance in leading the effort to combat global warming.
I hope that those attending the conference in December will realise that there is no alternative to cutting polluting emissions and that postponing any decision in Copenhagen on the mandatory objectives will mean failure not only for the conference, but also for the multilateral dialogue on global topics that affect the future of every one of us.
I join my colleagues in supporting calls for Europe to make a real offer of financing to the developing world to help it fight climate change in order to break the deadlock in the current negotiations.
This has an impact on every sector of the economy, but agriculture remains the most vulnerable.
I believe that this problem must be dealt with in two ways: an action plan is needed for the most affected areas, which includes: using certain plant varieties which are resistant to the new climate conditions, adapting the calendar of farming activities to the new conditions, forestation, building greenhouses, managing water resources from agriculture and making polluted land more environmentally friendly; the other measure must be a plan for the future aimed at eliminating the causes of climate change by promoting a global economy based on reduced carbon emissions, combined with the promotion of energy security.
I strongly support the European Union in having to maintain its leading position in the battle against climate change.
In order to ensure success in the battle against climate change, an ambitious, comprehensive global agreement must be reached in Copenhagen.
Every country must make its contribution to funding the battle against climate change, according to its resources and economic potential.
However, on the last point, I feel it is important that when the European Union is considering how to distribute the financial burden deriving from its future international climate funding commitments, it will take into account individual Member States' economic potential and the limits of their productive capacity.
It is already clear to us nowadays that among the dangers threatening the Earth, the biggest predicament by far is caused by greenhouse gases, primarily the emission of carbon dioxide.
When we talk in the European Parliament about climate change and preparations for the Copenhagen conference, we must not forget that our approval of the energy and climate package laid the foundations for a European energy policy that favours not only increasing competitiveness and strengthening supply security, but also energy efficiency, environmentally-friendly energy production and the assertion of consumer interests.
After all, we can only achieve a significant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions both at a European and global level if we develop and implement new technologies.
In addition to promoting the strategy for energy supply security and energy efficiency, Europe must devise a plan for investing in new energy technologies.
The promotion of green technologies at Community level does not only involve finding an alternative solution to the energy crisis, but also boosting economic growth and creating new jobs.
Last but not least, the EU must adopt a uniform position for maintaining its leading role in negotiations.
It must also be actively involved in strengthening existing partnerships in the climate sector with developing countries, as well as in establishing new partnerships where they do not yet exist.
We are all familiar with the reports of the International Panel on Climate Change, which clearly state that most of the warming observed over the last 50 years is the result of human activity.
Climate issues have become the geopolitical and economic priority of the 21st century, a priority which requires decisions that are both bold and based on long-term measures.
The Kyoto Protocol was the first step to changing the mentality of world governments on the question of environmental protection.
The Union must clearly commit to a 30% cut in emissions by 2020 and an 80% cut by 2050.
in writing. - (RO) Over the next 50 years, climate change will have a significant impact on important economic sectors such as agriculture, energy, transport, ecosystems, tourism and health.
The EU is determined to take prompt action to cut greenhouse gas emissions.
Additional action is required to alleviate this problem in the short term.
These policies are being applied in the EU, but policies are also required at a global level.
This position clearly gives us a responsibility to help the developing countries.
If developing countries are to be given EUR 30 billion a year for their efforts to alleviate the effects of climate change, then the aim of this measure must be climate justice and solidarity.
The greatest proportion of the resources should be targeted on supporting education and the information society.
If the ambitious goals of the EU are not appropriately reflected by the other major parties - the USA, China, India and the countries of South and Central America - it will be necessary for the EU to concentrate on strengthening its internal adaptation measures and mechanisms, especially in relation to the health and security of EU inhabitants.
in writing. - The negotiations in Copenhagen on financing to developing countries will be crucial if this summit is to be successful.
Agreements on this issue will provide the policy coherence and stability which give the private sector the confidence to invest properly in developing countries.
The negotiations must therefore aim for both comprehensive commitments regarding public financing and concrete measures to secure private sector investment. (The sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m.
