Illegal fishing (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Aubert, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the implementation of the EU action plan against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
At this very moment, the European Commission is working on evaluating the Member States' action plans on the fight against illegal fishing ahead of the meeting of the FAO - the FAO's Committee on Fisheries - which will be held in the first week of March, in Rome, and which will be an opportunity to re-launch the international action plan against illegal fishing.
Member of the Commission. (ES) I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Aubert and all of the members of the Committee on Fisheries for their involvement in this truly exhaustive report on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
The European Community has made considerable progress since the adoption in 2002 of its action plan against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
Nevertheless, the most significant progress in the fight against illegal, undeclared and unregulated fishing has related to the regional fisheries organisations, the majority of which, thanks to the Community's efforts, have now adopted a wide range of measures against illegal fishing.
The report by Mrs Aubert and the Committee on Fisheries represents an extremely significant and encouraging step in that direction.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Aubert for her report, which reminds us of the problem of piracy at sea and the poor record in terms of what has been done to combat it.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to congratulate Mrs Aubert on this report and on the way in which she has dealt with the numerous amendments that we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament tabled.
The Committee on Fisheries drew up this own-initiative report in preparation for the international forum on illegal fishing set to take place in Rome at the beginning of March, and in order that the Commission take account, in its new action plan, of Parliament's opinion.
We also call for cooperation between the Member States to step up control of vessels.
It is good to hear that the Commission will be presenting something to Parliament in the second half of the year, but we hope that it will be sooner rather than later, and comprehensive in its coverage.
The European Union's 2002 Action Plan to deal with illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing includes four actions to be implemented at Community level.
I would therefore ask today, in this House, if the Commission is prepared to do these things. (EL) Madam President, I congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Aubert, on her report on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
