The regional impact of earthquakes (debate) The next item is the report by Nikolaos Vakalis, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the regional impact of earthquakes.
Firstly, the adoption of earthquake protection measures should in future be an essential requirement for the funding of infrastructure from the Structural Funds, especially in view of the fact that earthquakes threaten the overall economic and social cohesion of the regions affected.
There needs to be adequate preparation and sufficient measures must be taken in advance so that we can cope with the most serious effects. 2007 was an important year for developing ways of dealing with natural disasters at EU level.
The financial instrument for civil protection provides a long-term funding framework for civil protection such as earthquake response operations.
The civil protection mechanism allows cooperation with third countries and with the Euromed programme in the prevention, mitigation and management of natural and man-made disasters and is another good example of cooperation in this sector.
From 31 October to 2 November I participated in a debate in the United Nations in New York with representatives of many continents and regions.
Those of us who come from the Party of European Socialists reiterated the support for establishing a European civil protection force, inviting the Commission to make a proposal for this purpose.
Mr Vakalis states that an area which should be given special attention is that of research.
The question of financing is key, of course, and as the rapporteur on the Solidarity Fund, I cannot understand why the Council is still dragging its feet on - indeed, has in effect shelved - the adaptation of the Solidarity Fund, which this House has endorsed.
The report makes a good contribution to this process. (DE) Mr President, the earthquake in Friaul 30 years ago killed more than 3 000 people and is something which I still remember very vividly.
It is therefore especially welcome that the European Parliament is dealing with this important issue.
I welcome the proposal to incorporate Eurocode 8 instructions in the planning regulations of vulnerable countries.
According to estimates by geo-physicians and historians, since the dawn of civilisation earthquakes have claimed the lives of 150 million people.
The prevention of environmental damage and damage caused by human activity entails the strengthening and development of civil protection resources and capabilities at local, national and European level.
Lastly, let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that on 22 and 23 November, the Commission is holding its second civil protection forum in Brussels.
The forum will be attended by approximately 500 participants who work in the field of civil protection or have an interest in it.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) Tectonic movements are manifested not only by earthquakes but also by volcanic eruptions.
