Progress report on Croatia (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Swoboda, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on Croatia's 2006 progress report.
Let us be honest with Croatia.
The Commission's 8 November 2006 progress report makes clear that, all this progress notwithstanding, Croatia still has a lot of work ahead of it, and needs to accelerate its efforts in certain areas.
Mr Swoboda has mentioned the fact that this is particularly the case in the reform of the justice system and of public administration, the fight against corruption and a massive effort at economic reform.
Progress in this area is important if Croatia's readiness for eventual EU membership is to be assessed.
I am certain that the adoption by the European Parliament of a resolution on this report will contribute a great deal to the process of enlargement to include Croatia.
The European Union and Croatia are preparing their negotiating positions in many other chapters.
We believe, in particular, that there is an urgent need for Croatia to continue with its efforts and to produce concrete results where judicial system reform, public administration and the fight against corruption are concerned.
There is a large judicial backlog.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (HU) Croatia deserves recognition for the results achieved in the past few years.
But Croatia still has a great deal of work to do before it can become a member.
The government must do more to win over public opinion.
Good luck with your delegation. (SL) First of all, I would like to extend my sincere congratulations to my fellow Member, rapporteur Swoboda.
It is also right that we should welcome the progress Croatia has made and that we should urge the European Union to do its utmost to provide a legal basis for Croatia's accession to the European Union. (SL) Croatia deserves to be congratulated on all the things referred to in this report, because it has made clear progress in a wide range of areas.
It is in Croatia's interest to prepare itself as best it can to join the Union as soon as possible.
The debate is closed.
