&#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, I am pleased to welcome a delegation of Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea, headed by the Honourable Mr Lee Sang Deuk, who have come to Brussels to take part in the eighth Inter-Parliamentary Meeting between the European Parliament and Korea.
I would like to remind you that, before today, the Conference of Presidents of Political Groups of this Parliament has had the opportunity to meet with the British Presidency in London; that gave us the opportunity to exchange a series of points of view with the Prime Minister on the way the United Kingdom is going to conduct its rotating Presidency of the Union.
The issue is not between a ‘free market’ Europe and a social Europe, between those who want to retreat to a common market and those who believe in Europe as a political project.
It is a mindset I have fought against all my political life.
I believe in Europe as a political project.
The purpose of political Europe should be to promote the democratic and effective institutions to develop policy in these two spheres and across the board where we want and need to cooperate in our mutual interest.
But the purpose of political leadership is to get the policies right for today’s world.
For 50 years European leaders have done that.
The broad sweep of history is on the side of the European Union.
But now, almost 50 years on, we have to renew.
It is a time to recognise that only by change will Europe recover its strength, its relevance, its idealism and therefore its support amongst the people.
It was a detailed, careful piece of work setting out the new rules to govern a Europe of 25, and then in time 27, 28 and more Member States.
There are two possible explanations.
Look at our children and the technology they use and the jobs market they face.
The Lisbon Agenda was launched in 2000 with the ambition of making Europe, and I quote, ‘the most competitive place to do business in the world by 2010’.
Such a position would be absurd.
I have said simply two things: that we cannot agree a new financial perspective that does not at least set out a process that leads to a more rational budget … … and that this must allow such a budget to shape the second half of the perspective up to 2013.
Otherwise it will be 2014 before any fundamental change is agreed, let alone implemented.
First, it would modernise our social model.
China has trebled its spending on research and development in the last five years.
The purpose of our social model should be to enhance our ability to compete, to help our people cope with globalisation, to let them embrace its opportunities and to avoid the dangers.
Of course we need a social Europe, but it has to be a social Europe that works.
So that is the first thing, to modernise our social model.
The Sapir report shows the way.
Thanks to Javier Solana, Europe has started to make its presence felt in the Middle East peace process.
There is only one thing I ask: do not let us kid ourselves that this debate is unnecessary; that if only we can assume business as usual, people will sooner or later relent and acquiesce in Europe as it is, not as they want it to be.
In my time as Prime Minister, I have found that the hard part is not taking the decision, it is spotting when it has to be taken.
I therefore have every confidence that you will lead an inclusive, constructive debate on what Europe can do for its citizens and create the consensus required for the urgent decisions that Europe needs.
I am greatly encouraged that achieving this new consensus and playing an active role during the period of reflection called for by the European Council are priorities for the incoming UK presidency.
A strategy paper will draw on the results of this debate and tackle fundamental questions about the future of Europe.
It is crucial that we address the core issues that help to define the Europe our citizens want.
The mid-term review of the Lisbon Agenda is behind us.
Now is the time for action at both European and national level.
These will set out in detail the principal measures they are taking to support our programme for growth and jobs.
Naturally, our ambitions on Lisbon will be tempered to a greater or lesser extent by the final outcome on the negotiations on the financial perspectives.
This does not mean that we should abandon the search for a better-balanced budget, reflecting a good compromise between existing spending on our tried and tested policies, in particular cohesion and our new policy agenda for growth and jobs.
We need a review clause because we cannot know exactly what the world will be like in 2013.
It is not by chance that the first major Commission initiative to implement the revised Lisbon Strategy was the March communication on better regulation for growth and jobs.
In that context, we have called for closer collaboration between the European Union and Member States.
We also need this Parliament and the Council of Ministers to make renewed efforts to ensure the quality and workability of the rules you adopt.
A first target must be agreement next month on a common approach to impact assessment across all three institutions.
Some 200 pending proposals are under examination.
Finally, in October the Commission will present the next phase of its simplification programme setting out a work programme for 2006-2007.
Another priority I would like to pick out from the many priorities jostling for attention is Africa.
This agreement provides the UK presidency with a solid basis for defending the European Union’s position in the important events which mark 2005 as the year of development, particularly the United Nations Summit in September.
Not only must we live up to our commitments under the Kyoto Protocol, we must also start intensifying discussions on the international climate policy regime post-2012 and we must engage our main partners in that direction.
December’s United Nations conference on climate change in Montreal will be an important staging-post in this debate.
Today finds us hearing another significant speech by the current Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and incoming President-in-Office of the European Council.
I would also like to express my thanks to the President of the Commission for his speeches yesterday and today.
Having been a Member of this House since 1979, I have to say that there has never, in all those years, been such intensive debate about the future shape of the European Union as we have had yesterday and today.
That is a victory for democracy, a victory for parliamentarianism, a victory for the people of Europe, as the fact that this debate is open to the public means that the people of Europe can participate in it.
It is also necessary for each succeeding President-in-Office of the European Council to justify his conduct in this Chamber and before the European Parliament whenever he has met with defeat, as he did last weekend.
We insist that it is not behind the closed doors of the European Council that the great debates on our future must be held, but here in the midst of the representatives of the peoples of the European Union, here in the European Parliament.
You spoke about respect.
There is indeed a need for respect in Europe, not just respect for the great, but for great and small alike.
When it comes to reforming European policies, you gain in credibility if you leave no room for doubt about your European vocation, and I ask that you make this clear during your Presidency.
It follows that what is in the Constitution, our common values and the decision-making processes that we need in order to resolve the issues about our future must become legal and political realities.
Mr Böge has put forward a proposal from this House relating to the Financial Perspective, and, if you want the possibility of compromise, I urge you to be guided by it.
Mr Blair, you are a Labour Prime Minister; it was our friend John Major who, as the United Kingdom’s Prime Minister in 1992, managed to put together a Financial Perspective for the whole of the European Union, which was at that time the European Community.
Prime Minister, it is now 10 a.m., while in the United Kingdom, where the clocks keep rather different time, it is 9 a.m.
You got up early this morning.
You are right to say, Mr Blair, that the time is ripe for reforms and changes.
Improving our people’s living conditions is dependent upon change, and, while you are right to say that Europe needs more flexibility and more competitiveness both at home and abroad, it needs them because something nobody can dispense with depends upon them.
And, if the change you seek is none other than that very change in the European Union, then Tony Blair the Socialist will have Europe’s Socialists side by side with him – of that you may be certain.
That figure must be increased – you are right in saying that – and there is room for reform in agriculture, but these are long drawn-out processes and our credibility depends on our not acting as if Europe amounted to no more than agriculture, without research or development.
If, Mr Blair, you want to make the European Union deeper, then we are right alongside you.
Yet the credibility of your own demand for a compromise, Mr President-in-Office and Prime Minister, is always in proportion to your own willingness to enter into one.
To let others make their move before considering making your own may well be the right thing for a British Prime Minister to do, but it is not enough for the President of the Council of the European Union.
Modern, meritocratic Britain has a level of intercultural sensitivity not common to its forebears and your speech today reflects that.
The phenomenon we call globalisation is re-shaping our world view, as you say.
It opens to humankind new opportunities, yet also puts new strains on our societies.
As President Borrell pointed out last week, the rejection of the Constitution was less about the text than the context.
But if there is one thing I know, it is that, if you want to modernise Europe, the modernisation must be environmentally and socially sustainable.
Therefore, take responsibility and say that Europe, the whole of Europe, must meet the Kyoto commitments.
Welcome to the club, Tony, we are with you To conclude, it is exactly ten years since Srebrenica; it is ten years since Europe, the shame of Europe and of the world, was put before us.
On three occasions in the space of a month, each time in a very different context, we have had the opportunity to acquaint ourselves with the top priorities of the UK Presidency.
The first time was on 26&#160;May in the form of a succinct and very specific statement by Gordon Brown, Chancellor of the Exchequer, to the House of Commons.
I will remind you of four points.
As Commissioner McCreevy so aptly emphasised in the context of the European Policy Forumon 24&#160;January, and I quote, ‘We should remember that the internal market programme is by far the greatest deregulatory exercise in recent history’.
The issue is now to reflect on the European social model, yes, but in what direction?
It represents more than all the pre-accession aid granted to Romania and Bulgaria over three years.
But I have to say that you are just about the only European Leader who really understands why the people of France and Holland voted ‘no’.
Everybody here has been deaf to what I have been saying on this, but I believe there is now a body of support across this Parliament to end these deals.
I know that you are not going to do that over the course of the next six months, but I think you have got a real problem.
If you can reform the European Union, Mr Blair, then I may even change my mind.
Firstly, the plan is: dump the common agricultural policy.
This is despite the fact that in 2002 there was a unanimous agreement amongst all Member States that the CAP budget will be fixed for a period up to 2013 on foot of reforms and on foot of sacrifices made by people living in rural areas and people involved in agriculture, including the reduction in the annual budget of CAP because there was no cost of living increase or no inflation index allowed for increasing of funding.
And it is ridiculous to speak about how we must do more at European level when at the same time you will not increase the budget that is available to the European Union to undertake this work, despite the fact that the numbers of people involved in the European Union and the number of countries involved in the European Union has increased.
On the same report about these reforms we heard the President of Guyana, the chairman of the Jamaican sugar industry and the chairman of the Mozambique sugar industry saying what a disaster these reforms would be for those countries.
You can give the leadership but that leadership requires compromise and consensus.
The decision of French and Dutch voters is extremely clear: France and Holland did not vote for a slightly different Constitution, they voted against the Constitution in its entirety.
It is important for our country and our national interest that Britain gives leadership to Europe at a time when fundamental questions on its future are being asked.
The fact that the people of France and the Netherlands, two founding States, voted emphatically against the Constitution has to be of profound significance.
Mr Blair has said that there needs to be a real debate on the kind of European Union that we want in the future and I agree with him.
Fine words from our government are all very well, but what we now need is action.
The Prime Minister was right to defend the British rebate.
We need active labour market policies to help people find and keep work.
The presidency has to bring Member States together to build a competitive Europe and a Europe capable of giving leadership in the world on issues such as security, climate change and world poverty, the very issues that our citizens are concerned about.
I wish you the best of luck. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Blair, thank you for a wonderfully committed speech.
First, to promote mandatory targets for energy efficiency across the European Union.
Second, to adopt targets for renewables which are consistent with a reduction of between 30 to 40 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020.
Yes, Europe must change as you say, but unless that change puts sustainability at its heart then your presidency will lose a vital opportunity to help the European Union regain public support and it will squander a key moment to address climate change seriously. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, you, Mr&#160;Blair, are not the solution to Europe’s problems; in fact you are one of the problems.
They are democratic, political, economic and social crises precisely due to the liberalist, monetarist and technocratic policies that you advocate, passing off old ideas as new.
The solution to Europe’s problems is something else entirely, and it is preciselyto be found in this left-wing, mass Europeanism that has consciously emerged among citizens who have read and understood and expressed themselves by means of the vote in France and the Netherlands.
That is our Europe and this Parliament has a major responsibility that it cannot and must not avoid.
One can but hope that all EU Member States will support the measures taken by a strong British Presidency, and I am sure that France and Germany will also back European solidarity.
After all, solidarity was the founding principle of the European Community, even though the current leaders of the two countries I mentioned appear to have forgotten this fact. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Prime Minister, the vast majority of Danes, in common with the British, do not want the EU Constitution because we do not wish to surrender our sovereignty to politicians who go about things as badly as the EU does at present.
What happens is that those countries that are industrious and willing to tax their citizens hard make payments to countries that do not implement reforms and do not wish to tax their people.
We look forward to the reforms you are to present, and I wish you good luck. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the voters of France and Holland have denied power to those they no longer trust, as indeed we would have done in the UK had we had the chance.
The British presidency should take three immediate and crucial steps: to enforce the rule of law in this place; to abandon projects which pre-empted the Constitution and now have no legal basis; and to guarantee that no attempt will be made to implement any part of it. &#160;&#160; Prime Minister, you say that you want to level out the anomalies in Europe.
Yes, Europe is in crisis, the Summit was a failure and your coming Presidency is faced with a crucial choice: either Europe will be a huge economic grouping with neither head nor tail in which witches dance around the grave of the draft Constitution, a sort of ‘Blair witch project’; or you release the handbrake to help us turn this historic corner that is the advent of a truly political Europe.
You preferred to create a crisis so that you could ride the crest of that crisis and serve your own interests.
Therefore, yes to social modernisation, but we do not want your uncertainty.
Finally, how can we explain the fact that, in their own countries, the Heads of State or Government are announcing the idea of a moratorium on the enlargement of Europe and that, on the other hand, in the Council, they are leaving all the doors open?
Mr&#160;Blair, you have much to prove to gain our confidence. &#160;&#160; Mr President, you, Mr Blair, are entering into a difficult inheritance.
Having had very high unemployment during the Thatcher era, it is now very low, among the lowest in Europe.
This liberalisation process is something that people will accept if they see that this Europe of ours is all in favour not only of a common market, but also of the public services about which they care a great deal.
We cannot call a halt to it, but we must make better preparations for it, both in the new Member States and in the existing Member States of the European Union, for the argument was often – and wrongly – deployed that enlargement would be to the detriment of the existing Member States.
You enjoy especially good relations with President Bush, and that can be to Europe’s benefit, provided that it is clear that you speak also for Europe; provided that it is clear that the position you represent in Washington is Europe’s.
The European position cannot amount to ‘Gaza first and last’; we have to take a more progressive line here.
The Prime Minister will recognise this failing.
But no referendum or treaty is required, just a simple vote in the General Affairs Council.
We are all aware of the challenges that lie ahead for the European Union both economically and socially.
Some of that debate unfortunately centred around the common agricultural policy.
The challenges that lie ahead are great, not just for the quality of life for those who reside in an increasingly urbanised Europe.
Bearing that in mind, I would ask you, Mr Blair, to concentrate on the urban problems as opposed to dismantling the CAP, which hopefully will strengthen rural communities in the years ahead. &#160;&#160; Mr President, after the rejections of the Constitution, the Prime Minister rightly said that profound questions now arose about the future of Europe.
You should know that from Northern Ireland.
Finally, I urge you, as Prime Minister, to continue to take a firm stand in defence of the justified rebate, which you can properly defend on its own merits … &#160;&#160; Mr President, as one of the first Members of this House from the new Member States to take the floor, I must begin by saying that it was not because of the new Members that either the Constitutional Treaty or the budget debate have brought about a crisis in the EU.
Prime Minister, your country is one of the few that has not taken fright at workers from the new Member States.
Prime Minister, you said that the common agricultural policy is untenable in its present form.
Our task is to reform the common agricultural policy, but let us also begin to eradicate the internal inequalities, and let Polish, Hungarian and Estonian farmers receive the same support that their Austrian, French or British counterparts are entitled to.
Prime Minister Blair and President Barroso, both of you also referred to the need to make Europe competitive.
Prime Minister, you spoke of Europe’s renewal, and rightly so.
Let us begin the process of renewal together, all twenty-five of us, without unjust, artificial and internal discrimination. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate. &#160;&#160; Colleagues, it gives me great pleasure to welcome members of a delegation from the Parliament of Kuwait – led by Dr Nasser Jasem al-Sane – who have taken their seats in the distinguished visitors’ gallery as part of their first visit to the European Parliament.
We in this Parliament welcome this historic vote and encourage the women of Kuwait to exercise their newly acquired rights in the general election scheduled for 2007. &#160;&#160; We now continue with the debate on the programme of the British Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one could accuse Prime Minister Tony Blair of many things, but not of paying lip service.
Your principal task internally in Europe in the next six months will be to create more jobs through higher growth and the right reforms.
I know that even if you succeed – which I hope you will – in achieving this new European budget, we know and you know that most of the effort to create more jobs takes place in the nation state.
It is also the responsibility of the nation states to really focus on a modernisation process and to unite a new social progress with a new competitiveness and growth.
If you can achieve a new agreement during your presidency on goal-oriented investments to increase growth internally, combined with some consensus on the social model, then you are in the driving seat and I sincerely hope you will stay there. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Lisbon strategy is a very important tool to enhance European economic growth and when we negotiated this in the Parliament we were very clear that we wanted sustainable economic growth.
Environmentally driven industry has two and a half times the growth rate that is normal in European industry.
Environmentally driven questions are also key to economic growth, so I want a message on this from you, Mr Blair.
Therefore it would be very nice to also have a clear result on this to ensure that the future is not blurred but . &#160;&#160; Mr President, Prime Minister, it seems that French and Dutch voters have startled you into some attitude changes.
The best form of constitutional reform for Scotland would be to represent ourselves in the European Union as an independent Member State. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a red-letter day for this House.
The latter is an idea that only looks good on paper or in the minds of its creators.
There is one point, however, upon which I cannot agree with you... &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr Blair, I think it is the case – and it is the message that we get from the European people – that we need reforms.
The market demands modern conditions under which to operate, including social security and protection for the environment and the consumer.
The United Kingdom supported military intervention, recommending it as a means of resolving the entire Middle East crisis.
That is even more necessary in the perspective, with which I believe you agree, Prime Minister, of a great Europe that is not closed off to the Balkans and to Turkey. &#160;&#160; What a mess, Mr&#160;Blair!
You were, just a short while ago, surrounded by esteem and general respect and you managed to produce a by disappointing us before you even began.
It is deeply shocking on a moral level that the United Kingdom wants to shy away from the solidarity efforts to which all have consented in order to help the enlargement countries.
It is economically dishonest to claim that farmers are sucking Europe dry when total agricultural expenditure is no more than 1.3% of the European Union’s total public expenditure.
It is legally and politically abhorrent that you are arriving at a system in which you want to make the reform of a common policy dependent on the choice of a budgetary arbitration.
Finally, let me say, as a defeated Frenchman who is unhappy to have lost the referendum, that I do not think it is very magnanimous, or a very good example of fair play, to choose the moment when my country is on its knees to attack it.
The real impact of the EU’s policies can be seen from the following figures, which relate to two current examples based on the past year.
Much has been said in this House about the need to bring the EU closer to its citizens, and so I would propose that we start doing so here and now, in this very Chamber.
The difference is that the rectification must be profound and must be ordered, led by our conviction that the Union is needed and that we must not act hastily.
The Council must do it, the Commission must do it and Parliament must do it.
And each Institution must focus in particular on what is alienating Europeans today.
Myself, I say to you, ‘Turn your Presidency into Austerlitz, not Waterloo.’ When Europe experiences a crisis, it always talks about its values.
It is true for the developing countries.
It is true for the common agricultural policy, because, for my part, I am not very happy that about a quarter of French farmers are pocketing three-quarters of European money.
Go to see Mr&#160;Chirac.
And that must not happen. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Prime Minister, a fortnight ago, Mr Blair, we had the opportunity to visit you in London and to find out something about how you saw the Presidency.
Jacques Chirac and Chancellor Schröder have described themselves as ashamed of the way you behaved.
My dear Mr Blair, I have to tell you that I am ashamed of the way my Chancellor behaved at this summit, not to mention ashamed of the behaviour of Jacques Chirac, for neither of them can see that we need a new vision, and what this in fact means is that we are obliged to go down your road.
You chose the right moment, and so I would like to congratulate you and bid you carry on as you have begun. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Prime Minister, we had a dream, a dream of a free and generous Europe of solidarity.
Our budget may not be ideal but it is a good compromise.
The problem is not linked specifically to any particular government – French, British or German or anybody else.
It is simply impossible to have more Europe for less money.
The Union should resist the temptation to make enlargement a scapegoat for or victim of all the problems facing the European Union, be it of constitutional or budgetary nature.
We, the countries of central and eastern Europe, know very well what the price of our European dream was.
But we place a higher value on Europe.
With regard to the Constitution, I must point out that more than half of the European citizens and 60% of the euro zone have approved it and I cannot understand why the positive vote by 75% of Spanish citizens is worth less than the negative vote by 66% of the Dutch.
With regard to the euro, you have had the grace not to speak about it.
With regard to the financial perspectives, and since we are in a Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Constitution grants this Parliament the power of codecision over agricultural spending, a power that we do not have at the moment.
The President of the Commission is right when he says that we must opt for a transitional solution until 2009.
That is the way to act democratically and I hope that you will help us actively to consolidate a more democratic and transparent Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Prime Minister, regrettably it becomes clearer day by day that the present Constitutional Treaty will not be brought into force.
The current text must be seen as a good first draft and the famous period of reflection should be exploited to prepare for a renegotiation through a fresh convention with a new mandate.
That is the reason why the Europe of politics and values that you mentioned cannot put a stop to its progress, and cannot give up on developing its role as a major international player and as the representative of peace in the face of a number of setbacks.
On the contrary, what is needed is a Union that addresses the issues that, in the era of globalisation, cannot be resolved by nation states: from foreign policy to defence policy, from immigration crises to the fight against terrorism, to the trade challenges with China.
Prime&#160;Minister, we agree with the approach of your Presidency, and with this in mind you can depend on the cooperation of the Italian delegation of the party, on active cooperation in forthcoming months, with the certainty that the British Presidency will ensure progress is achieved by the Europe of the citizens. &#160;&#160; Prime Minister, above all, I would like to express the determined support of our group for the action plan against human trafficking.
We also emphasise that the elimination of sexual exploitation and violence against women should also be a top priority for the European Union.
We absolutely must eradicate this scourge that is unworthy of our society, and this aspect must form an integral part of the fight against illegal immigration.
I say that because a large proportion of the current debates concern the view of enlargement.
I am among those who believe that enlargement to include the 10 new Member States has made Europe safer and more stable and has created better preconditions for peace and prosperity than ever before.
One of the most important tasks for the new leadership in Europe will be that of firmly establishing and developing the view of how Europe can bring about increased security and greater prosperity by embracing those countries for which enlargement is now in the offing.
Prime Minister Blair, I believe that the problems we now face in the EU have to do with the fact that Europe is better than ever.
It is not a question, as is sometimes said, of a conflict between the old and the new Europe or between a free-trade Europe and political union.
The European Union is a political union and must fulfil its task on that basis.
It is a question, instead, of moving on from the old European Union of 6, 9, 12 or 15 Members to today’s EU of 25 Member States.
I hope, on behalf of the Swedish Moderates, that you will lay the basis for the new leadership needed by the new Europe and the new European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank Prime Minister Blair for an inspiring speech.
All that was good, but we must go further and find a balance.
That is why we must obtain a draft Services Directive that balances the trade in services, for that is something we need.
At the same time, we need sound conditions in the labour market, consumer rights and high environmental standards.
If you succeed in opening the door to trade and in opening up the borders and, at the same time, in developing the social Europe, we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament shall support you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the Prime Minister’s historic speech.
At a time when this European Union is going through an identity crisis – and you yourself, Mr Blair, spoke of a crisis of leadership – it is vital that we remember that this Europe of ours, having been in existence for 50 successful years, needs a ‘bottom-up’ rather than ‘top-down’ approach.
This is not just about Europe’s need for better regulations; most of all, it needs fewer of them, and that I say not only to the Commission, but also to the Members on the left of the political spectrum here in this House.
That principle is one that your future successor as President-in-Office of the Council, Austria’s Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, has chosen as his watchword.
I also welcome your desire to resolve the dispute about the European Union’s objectives that has ensued from the constitutional crisis.
This is natural, not just because our values coincide, but because for months we have been cooperating intensely with our colleagues in the British Cabinet, Hillary Ben and Garret Thomas.
In the French referendum President Chirac got 45.3 per cent of votes in favour.
In the UK General Election last month, you got 35.3 per cent, which is 10 per cent less than Jacques Chirac got.
You are only there because of a distortion in the UK electoral system; you had a manifesto commitment in 1997, but it seems to have been forgotten.
Will you start to make speeches explaining the European Union in the country you and I know best? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome Mr Blair and thank him for staying for the entire debate here this morning.
Fontainebleau was Margaret Thatcher’s Agincourt, when she walked away with the British rebate, and now, 20 years on, that rebate is worth a farthing in the pound of British GDP.
Yet, Mr&#160;Blair, you are prepared to sacrifice Europe’s budget agreement and the European project to continue being the populist servant of Mr Murdoch and his newspapers.
If Kohl or Mitterrand had been at the table last weekend, we would have had a conclusion.
It is true that we urgently need to peel back regulation and that China is investing threefold in research and innovation.
As a priority, I hope that Britain will put the roadmap for Arab-Israeli peace back on the agenda and combat nuclear proliferation in Iran and North Korea.
As a Commonwealth country, we have a very special influence on these countries in Africa.
Certainly, building a multi-polar world with China and the EU as a counterweight to the US should play no part in this issue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr Blair, the European Union’s Heads of State or Government have prescribed a period of reflection, and you are participating in it by deferring the United Kingdom’s referendum.
It is because I know from my own experience that the enlargement issue played a particular part in the debate around the referenda in France and the Netherlands that I believe that the present period of reflection must include consideration of it.
After adopting the Treaty of Nice, we discovered that it would not function adequately if we had 25 or 28 Member States, and so we summoned a convention and compiled a draft Constitution, which you, Mr Blair, support.
We know too, though, that there is no very great likelihood of this draft Constitution seeing the light of day in its present form.
In the absence not only of a constitution but also of any financial settlement, we have to ask ourselves the very serious question as to whether it really is well-advised to start accession negotiations with Turkey on 4 October.
Along with many of my friends, I take the view that this question has to be answered, and firmly, in the negative. &#160;&#160; – Prime Minister, your speech was inspired and I trust that your European actions will be equally inspired.
However, I must point out that the Union has entered a period of crisis, a credibility crisis, and I shall explain why: - In March 2000, the European Council agreed on the Lisbon Strategy.
The Lisbon Strategy: the Council proposal for financing the strategy cancels it in practical terms.
Prime Minister, I share your views about the need for reforms which will make us more competitive on the international stage, but we need to combine the validity of this position with respect for what has been agreed.
I ask you: - Firstly, taking account of the fact that the compromise on agricultural spending was achieved after reciprocal and painful concessions, taking account of the fact that the basic principle of international law is the ' principle and, finally, taking account of the fact that a new compromise will be impossible to achieve today with 25 Member States and the current institutional framework, do you consider it advisable that we exhaust this issue? - Secondly, with what budget do you intend ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was very interested in the reference made by the Prime Minister in his speech this morning to the Europe of values.
Do not forget, though, that the CAP has already been reformed three times.
The future of Europe depends on our ability to guarantee to 450&#160;million Europeans that they will all be able to feed themselves at a reasonable price and completely safely.
We will not forget that you have declared that you do not want to reduce the EU to a huge, dehumanised market.
One thing is certain: our debate today has provoked enormous interest not just here in this Parliament but also outside.
He reminded me of John Major’s negotiations in 1992, so I was rather grateful for Mr Schulz reminding us that we defeated both him in the 1997 election and three subsequent leaders, but that is perhaps a point to make in a different forum.
Let us consider that under our presidency.
It is good to see Mr Cohn-Bendit after all these years.
A long time ago I used to listen to your speeches, and now you listen to mine.
I apologise for not spending more of my speech on the issues of the environment and climate change.
In respect of what Mr Mote said about the rebate, I repeat that we must look at all of this in the round.
I want to make it clear that, in general terms, I think I have shown over the past eight years that I have always tried to reach consensus at a European level and it is important that we do so.
We do not quite realise in Europe the competitive economic challenge we face today.
The trouble is that in today’s world you have to adapt constantly to that process of change.
I am well aware, as I have said in my own Parliament and country, this debate for change and reform cannot be led in any other way than from a pro-European perspective.
The question, as was rightly put by several speakers in the debate, is not whether Europe should change or whether we believe in Europe, but how Europe should change and what type of Europe we believe in today.
The one thing that worried me during the course of all the debates about the Constitution was this: there is a tendency that I have noticed over my eight years as Prime Minister for Europe sometimes to go back over institutional questions when the questions are really about policy direction.
It is true that we all have a tendency to do that.
If we do, they will respond to us and tell us that they agree it is sensible to have a new European Constitution, because they will then understand the political context in which that constitutional debate is happening.
That is part of a healthy democratic debate.
I would just suggest to you that if we could replicate this debate in our individual countries and go out and engage with our people and talk to them about what we believe in, why we think Europe is necessary for today’s world, why we want to make the changes necessary to bring it into line with people’s priorities, then in the very act of debate we will help Europe; in the very reaching out to people we will show our relevance; in the very satisfaction of being in a position to answer their concerns, we will reinvigorate the European project.
We all understand that this situation is a very special one.
There were, of course, different views, but this debate has shown that there is a will for the search for consensus.
In that search for consensus, it is important to avoid simplifications: the idea to put those who are in favour of a free market against those who are for social commitment; the idea to put political integration against economic integration.
That is why we have to respond to the expectations, namely of the new Member States that are looking to us for solidarity.
Yesterday we had a very successful conference here on Iraq.
Yesterday the Commission took very important and courageous decisions: the Green Paper on energy efficiency; a new sugar market reform – which shows, by the way, that the common agricultural policy can also be reformed.
We are not speaking about changing or reforming the old values of the European Union or of Europe, the values that were those of our founding fathers for a European Union that believes in solidarity with ambition for all our citizens. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much to all of you for participating in this important debate.
What, in other language versions, is Article&#160;23.2 is Article&#160;12.7 in the Swedish version. &#160;&#160; Mr President, very briefly, it is clear from the voting list, but I have learnt from experience that it is very good to point it out at length.
I therefore thank you on behalf of the whole of Parliament and I also thank the Commission and the Presidency-in-Office of the Council.
I also thank my colleagues in the committee and Mr&#160;Lehne in particular, who provided a tremendous contribution in terms of achieving this important outcome, which places Parliament – as we said this morning – at the centre of attention of a united Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr Gargani, thank you very much for your constructive words.
Thank you very much to everybody and in particular to the Luxembourg Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as we seem to be the only group to be holding fast to the compromise that we hammered out together, I have consulted at least some of the other groups and am now able to ask, on their behalf too, for the vote to be deferred in accordance with Rule 170 of our Rules of Procedure, irrespective of whether we will be voting at a later date.
I have a procedural suggestion to make, that being that we vote on Amendments 1 to 21 in a single block, while we really do have to vote on the other items on a one-by-one basis. &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have voted against this Statute, and have done so for five reasons.
The first is that I think this is not the right time for it; while Europe as a whole is grappling with its future, we are concerning ourselves with the future of our financial arrangements.
I am sure that many of my colleagues who have voted ‘yes’ today have done so not out of conviction, but in response to pressure from the media, and that, too, is a pity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I, too, have voted against the Members’ Statute, which I regard as sending the wrong message – that is what we are doing if we adopt it in such haste while the current European crisis is raging around us.
I think we have done Europe a disservice today, and I do not believe that we will, in so doing, be able to rid people of their suspicions of the European institutions and of their weariness with our politics. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think that we sent an entirely wrong message today by voting on the Gargani report on the Members’ Statute, not least because the impression is once again being created that this House’s real principal concern is with its Members’ benefits.
If this report is a new stunt to bring even more people to resist what we are gradually referring to as the Eurocracy, then it has achieved its object. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the EU is mired in a profound crisis, when agreement on the European Constitution eludes us, when we are unable to decide on the EU’s future financial basis, at a time marked by great economic problems and high levels of unemployment in the EU, yet again, we in this House are focussing our attention on ourselves.
Every amendment that we have tabled here today would, from the Council’s point of view, have caused the Members’ Statute to fall.
The June Movement’s representative has proposed approximately 50 times that travel should be as per account rendered, and the present compromise now offers the chance to have this put into practice.
In the event of the Statute entering into force in 2009, I very much hope that this defect will have been, by that date, remedied by means of a rule on the immunity of MEPs that shall be binding, equal and uniform across the EU.
It was not only in this respect that Mr Rothley’s original draft was markedly superior to the present text, for it embodied a parliamentary law that was, in a whole range of other areas, more modern and more comprehensible to the public than national rules, including those obtaining in Germany, not least in such matters as the requirement that Members make a contribution to their own pensions, for which no provision is made in the regulations of many national legislatures. &#160;&#160; Today, Parliament has voted on the long-debated Members’ Statute.
The Statute also means that all MEPs will receive the same level of salary from 2009.
That is especially important if our fellow MEPs from the new Member States are to receive reasonable salaries and if the earnings gap is to be reduced between those who earn least and those who earn most.
Quite a few constructive amendments were tabled before the vote, demanding, for example, a common statute for MEPs’ assistants and the opportunity for those MEPs who wish to do so to receive back only their actual expenses from as early as 2007.
This decision has undergone one or two amendments, which we welcome, not least the call for greater transparency in reimbursement of travel expenses, indicating that the payment will be based on actual expenses.
Members of the European Parliament are elected nationally and are – and must continue to be – accountable to their national electorates.
The national salaries paid to Members of the European Parliament are adjusted according to the actual situation regarding salaries and expenses that applies in each Member State.
It is important for Members of the European Parliament not to be regarded as a privileged elite by the voters in their own countries.
Instead, salaries should be more or less the same as those paid in those countries to people in corresponding positions.
The present system of travel expenses, which takes no account of actual costs and is based on standard payments, is, in our view, quite unfair.
The travel expenses system can be reformed without a common Members’ Statute being adopted.
Members of the European Parliament are elected nationally and are – and must continue to be – accountable to their national electorates.
The social situation in the different Member States also varies markedly.
Conservatives have always believed that we should be taxed at the same rate as our UK constituents (article 12, point 3), that our salary is equal to that of our colleagues in Westminster (article 29, points 1 and 2), and to ensure that travel expenses are only reimbursed for the actual amount incurred (article 20, point 2).
In our experience, on an annual basis, more than half can be recouped that way.
In the Dutch parliament, we asked the government to reject this document in the Council.
Acceptance of this proposal represents a defeat for those who for years resisted this Statute, thinking it beneath their dignity, the salaries and reimbursements of travel expenses too low, and the financial monitoring too intrusive.
My vote was therefore based on what I feel to be the most relevant aspects of this proposal on the Statute for Members of the European Parliament.
The fact that this proposal does not cover the current legislature, and that it provides for a very long transitional period, has enabled me to act with freedom, in the knowledge that I am voting on an issue that does not affect me directly.
Among other things, politics is about symbolism, and the fact that Parliament decided to vote on this issue at a time of major crisis for the European institutions is not something that I welcome or applaud. &#160;&#160; I am voting against Mr&#160;Gargani’s report because the proposed Statute would involve unacceptable salary increases, unduly generous pensions and an unduly long transitional period of two terms of office.
An unduly favourable pension system should also come in for the same criticism.
From all the times, though, that we have voted in Parliament and had to establish subsequently that the Council was incapable of reaching agreement, I have learnt that the communality we seek is not feasible and that there is no such thing as an ‘ideal’ Statute.
The Statute proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which apparently received the stamp of approval from the Council, is better than what we have at the moment in the sense that it provides the necessary transparency and that it gives us the only acceptable travel expense scheme, namely one that reimburses only expenses actually incurred.
I am convinced that this alone is reason enough to vote in favour, even if this is done at the wrong time. &#160;&#160; .– The report on the Statute for Members of the European Parliament, by which we mean the creation of a new framework of privileges, is an insult to the peoples of Europe, while the recent rejection of the so-called European Constitution by France and the Netherlands expresses the general opposition of the peoples to the anti-grass roots policy of the ΕU.
The MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report, because they consider that Members of the European Parliament should be paid by the countries in which they are elected and which they represent and to which they answer and not by the ΕU.
For border controls to be efficient and effective, Member States must be equipped with the necessary human and financial resources, and at the same time must ensure that human rights are upheld in full when these controls are taking place.
The June List believes that each Member State should be allowed to reserve the right to reintroduce its border controls if it considers this to be necessary in order to combat drug smuggling and illegal human and other trafficking and if it is required to withdraw from Schengen cooperation. &#160;&#160; .– The Community Code on movements across internal and external EU borders applies the racist and anti-immigration decisions taken in Seville and Thessaloniki, in order to turn the EU into a fortress which is hostile and inhumane towards the victims of the policy of imperialism and international monopolies who try and cross its borders.
At the same time, immigration is one of the political questions that we must address seriously and with cool heads.
We are, however, alert to the fact that the proposal concerns an area covered by Title IV of the EC Treaty and does not therefore apply to Denmark, cf.
The evaluations of these programmes have proved very positive.
The most worrying aspect of this is that the Commission can put direct pressure on governments to implement monetary policies in the Member States.
The report by Mr Gauzès forms part of the efforts that need to be channelled into reforming the Community’s statistical system, within the crucial context of the Stability and Growth Pact.
We cannot allow violations of human rights, and of international humanitarian law, to continue.
What was really needed was the scrapping of the SGP and a clean break from the prevalent economic and monetary policies, in order to create a macroeconomic framework capable of fostering sustained economic growth and employment.
I therefore feel that this report strengthens the existing measures for cooperation and exchange of information that are key to combating illegal activities of this nature.
We are not, therefore, voting against legislation by the EU.
Nor, however, can we vote in favour of this, for it is extremely improbable that this rebuilding plan will work, any more than other rebuilding plans in the EU’s fisheries policy have worked.
That is why we cannot vote, either, for a report that would have the EU’s fisheries policy continue unamended.
Although I feel that the legislative proposal is consistent with the new common fisheries policy, I do not agree with some points in the version tabled by the Commission, which I feel would penalise Community fishermen.
Similarly, they continue to press ahead with proposals such as the revision of the Lisbon Strategy, including the Bolkestein proposal for a directive, the organisation of working time and access to the port services market, rather than demanding that the Commission and the Council remove them.
The pause for reflection must be used for that purpose.
The first requirement is social: to create growth and employment without making working conditions too flexible, and without pulling our social model down.
The guidelines for growth and employment adopted during this Summit, however, run completely counter to this objective.
The individual points made are not formulated in a clear and sensible manner which would provide comprehensible answers or ways out of the complex situation, in which Europe finds itself after the two unsuccessful referenda on the constitutional agreement and the failure to adopt the budget for the years 2007 - 2013.
Indeed, I feel that we can all see how the widespread praise for the Luxembourg Prime Minister is justified.
The last European Council should have responded to the current crisis in Europe with great lucidity and a proper understanding of the feelings of the citizens.
We think it important to develop a structured and appropriate security research programme with a view, for example, to guaranteeing the EU’s credibility and an advanced intelligence capability within the framework of the European Security and Defence Policy.
I therefore congratulate Mr Klich on his report, which supports the Commission’s proposal to set up a European Security Research Programme (ESRP) by 2007, in order to address current security challenges, while contributing towards the growth and competitiveness of the European economy.
The ESRP will involve relevant security research stakeholders and will enjoy appropriate funding, so as to secure the greatest possible continuity over time and the best results. &#160;&#160; .– The report also puts the research sector at the service of the imperialist policy of the ΕU and, at the same time, secures funding for big business in this sector by making EUR 1 billion available from taxes paid by the working and grass-roots classes in the Member States of the ΕU.
The spending of an additional one billion Euros on armament research would be yet a further step in this direction.
Cybercrime – in the shape of illegal downloads, spamming, spyware and child pornography – is flourishing, and only some 1 or 2% of the offences committed on the Internet ever come to light.
The latest Eurobarometer survey showed that 40% of Austrian parents had no idea where to get information on safe use of the Internet and where to report prohibited material.
I feel that issues of Internet governance and mechanisms for financing the new technologies should be at the forefront of political debate in Europe and the rest of the world.
The information society is of twofold importance in meeting the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy: firstly because it will help to fulfil the aims of economic growth accompanied by major investment in the new technologies and secondly because a Europe that seeks to be at the cutting edge of technology needs to be a regular presence and a proactive player on the international stage.
Initiatives of this kind can only help to achieve greater growth and economic development in Europe. &#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
