rapporteur. - Mr President, I rise to present to you a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concerning our Rules, where we have examined the question of the threshold - the minimum threshold necessary to constitute a political group in our Parliament.
I understand now that some smaller groups that initially opposed this idea are on board for a compromise between the 30 Members that I proposed and the 20 Members of our current rule; they would be happy to go along with a compromise of 25.
It is for this very reason that, on behalf of the European People's Party, we have supported this recommendation, and we have supported the view that this limit should be flexible, although I would like to add that, with regard to flexibility, I would have authorised the creation of such groups for a shorter period.
However, we must note that this Parliament has grown from 626 to 785 Members and, should the new Treaty come into force, the figure will very likely be 751.
The status quo is always the easiest option.
We make laws for 500 million people, and a certain degree of coherence is needed to do that.' Therefore, I would wish for truly political groups in this Parliament and not just technical groups - groups that get together only because of the money and do not really have anything in common politically.
Here we should reflect on the more complex and wider spread of public opinion from 27 countries.
These changes should not enter into force either in 2009 or at any time, and I am saying this as representative of a group that would manage perfectly well even if these changes were to be introduced.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (DA) Mr President, the debate we are currently holding is surreal.
Mr Corbett, the rapporteur for the report, wanted to raise the number of members from 20 to 30, and at the same time require that the group represent a quarter of the countries as against a fifth up to then.
After all, in 2004 the threshold was raised on the grounds that the European Parliament now consisted of 25 countries instead of 15.
The famous Amendment 6 on parliamentary questions is also yet another curtailment of our rights.
It was certainly with practicalities in mind, faced with the basic requirement of 30 Members, that I submitted my amendment - I think it was my amendment, Mr Corbett - which enabled the President of Parliament, with the agreement of the Conference of Presidents, to allow a group to continue its work for a limited period if it fell below that particular threshold.
That is why I am somewhat attracted by this new compromise which has been proposed for a limit of 25 Members.
His totally undemocratic credentials are transparent for all to see. (PT) Mr President, Parliament needs to interpret Democracy in a democratic fashion.
National parliaments really do act as models for us, but in this case we need to copy them cum grano salis, with caution, as the proliferation of groups in European democracy can make up for the lack of representativity that hurls Europe from one crisis to another.
Do not be the 'anti-Europeans'. (FR) Mr President, there is a single market, there is a single currency, so it would make complete sense for there to be a single group, which in any case would be much more efficient.
Eurosceptics have always been represented in this Parliament, well represented, have almost always had a political group and I am sure that will continue to be the case.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 9 July 2008.
