In 1979 it was turned into a disguised declaration and, since that time, the argument has run and run.
The Council and, as has already been said, the Commission reacted to this.
We, in this Parliament, will implement the open declaration.
We want the open declaration with no ifs or buts and we also want the positive list.
On 4 December last year, the Commission was invited by the Agriculture Council to analyse the situation of the market for protein-rich plants and to draw the appropriate conclusions from this analysis.
What were these findings?
Some 2 million tonnes were exported to third countries and a further half a million tonnes were used in the production of pet food.
The remaining 2 million tonnes or so were used as pig swill and poultry feed.
The analysis contained in the working document is based on the assumption that the per-capita consumption of beef in the wake of the BSE crisis of 1996 will start to recover in the coming three to five years.
In practice the composition of feedingstuffs will be determined by the price and availability of raw materials and technical constraints.
The current price ratio between cereals and soya will trigger three main reactions in the feedingstuffs industry and among farmers.
Cereals are admittedly suppliers of energy rather than protein, but with an average protein content of 10% to 12%, the 5 million extra tonnes of cereals which will be fed to animals this year will supply half a million tonnes of raw protein.
Firstly, we have looked into the possibility of increasing the aid quotient to EUR 74 per tonne, rather then keeping it at the same level as cereals, namely at a level of EUR 63 per tonne, as was decided in Agenda 2000.
The budget costs for this option would amount to some EUR 475 million a year.
We opted for EUR 6 because such an increase would be covered by the peace clause in the WTO.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, regarding protein deficits Commissioner Fischler mentioned a few options which are available in the European Union.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf talked about a half-open declaration, which has been something special in recent years.
The Commission has been requested to put forward a legislative proposal by the end of 2001.
Given that feedingstuffs are the most important part of meat production we must ensure that these feedingstuffs are safe.
I think that this proposal is too complicated and that, in the long term, we ought to be able to find common principles for food and feedingstuffs which are somewhat simpler and somewhat more comprehensible both to the farmer and the final consumer of the food, for example a declaration of contents in descending order of volume and precise information upon request.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there are important reasons that we need to take into account: we are currently dependent on imports for 75% of our vegetable protein needs.
This is an unacceptable strategic weakness and means that we must accept genetically modified organisms in our food.
Ladies and gentlemen, we think that the Commission should begin the work of revising the Blair House agreements.
In this case, the economy is in open conflict with the interests of the Community agricultural sector and, in particular, with safeguarding the health and confidence of the citizen, which is not economically quantifiable.
Of course, Europe is not holding a people against its will, but we cannot simply skim over the plagues which are hitting our agriculture.
Alternatives for animal protein include soybean and other oilseed crops rich in protein.
Mr President, the Union' s vegetable protein deficit has been growing over the years, to reach 35 million tonnes in 2000.
The third is the need to respond to consumer demand for more traceability and visibility.
Mind you, we are not only dealing with a systemic crisis in the sector but with the need for confidence-building measures in favour of consumers.
There must also be a European protein plan to wean Europe off imports from third countries because these imports contain genetically modified soya.
Thank you, Mrs Schierhuber.
Mr President, Commissioner, with regard to the communication on vegetable protein production, I join in what has been said by my colleagues in this House.
The European Union' s situation with regard to its deficit of vegetable proteins, due to the Blair House agreements, in which we agreed to a reduction in our vegetable protein production while in the mean time we were feeding our livestock on meat meal from dead animals, required that the Commission take a more ambitious and broader approach to this study.
Nor does it take into account what it would mean to increase these crops that are rich in vegetable proteins in order to re-establish the balance and capacity to supply of the whole of the European Union, which would undoubtedly be very beneficial for achieving more extensive and better quality livestock.
In any event, what the Commission is telling us about it being better to continue importing and depending on third countries because it is cheaper is not correct.
It is more important that all feed materials in compound feedingstuffs should be named in the declaration and that the feed materials meet with the requirements under the legislation on animal feedingstuffs.
As for the idea in Amendment No 4 of a positive list, there too it has to be borne in mind that it would be a very arduous task of administration if all feed materials used in EU countries had to be compiled in one list.
The first and primary position of this House is to guarantee that the Commission does everything it possibly can to ensure that the present legislation and the common position are put in place and enforced.
The proposal in question has its origins in the legitimate expectations and demands of both the farming community and consumers.
I am satisfied that this objective is met in the Council's common position.
The most important fact is the presence of an ingredient in the compound feedingstuff and not necessarily its exact quantity.
I believe I am correct in saying that the issue of public health and food safety is related to the presence rather than the quantity of what is contained in the compound feedingstuff.
I would also underline that the amendments adopted by the European Parliament at first reading have been accepted in the common position except for the proposal that the Commission present a positive list of feed materials that may be used in animal feed.
I would like to thank you all very much for your committed contributions but I must also remind you that the task the Commission took on was to investigate the impact the ban on bone and animal meal in feedingstuffs would have on supply and demand.
It is a fact that approximately 30 million tonnes of soya and soya equivalents are imported every year.
But what argument can we use to persuade the Americans to renounce the Blair House agreement if we have nothing to offer in return?
This brings me back to the current protein deficit.
I must ask Parliament whether it is justifiable to pay six times as much in additional subsidies for a kilo of extra soya production than a kilo of soya would cost on the market.
The joint debate is closed.
Deadlock in negotiations on the EU/Morocco Fisheries Agreement The next item is the Commission statement on the deadlock in negotiations on the fishing agreement between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco.
Commission. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of the Morocco Fisheries Agreement, I have been very committed from the outset, that is, since I assumed responsibility for the fisheries sector.
Following my visit to Rabat in February this year, I had to conclude that the gulf between the two positions could not be bridged, in particular, because of the compensation demands by Morocco for the catch facilities that were being offered.
Following my return in February, I immediately apprised the Council of the situation so as to sound out alternatives with the Fisheries Ministers.
There is currently a Commission proposal with Parliament and also with the Council, whereby compensation payments will be extended to 30 June of this year.
In my view, we must act in three key areas.
Morocco never wanted the agreement and showed it by imposing its intransigence and its unfair and unacceptable conditions, which the sector itself rejected as uneconomical and impossible to take on.
Morocco is within its rights but, having got to this point, should we carry on?
I think that if Morocco wants an agreement with the European Union, it knows perfectly well what it has to offer.
Therefore, Mr Fischler, you should take note of this and inform the College of Commissioners of Morocco' s intransigence in co-operating with the European Union.
I stress, Mr Fischler, that you should take careful note of all this but, following this upset with Morocco, I think that we must look to the future.
The Nice European Council, incidentally at the request of the Spanish Government and José María Aznar, agreed - another unprecedented thing - to support the demands and, if they failed, the negotiations and, if these did not succeed either, asked the Commission for a specific action programme, as set out in No 59 of the Nice conclusions.
I will conclude by saying that Morocco dealt a hard blow to the European fisheries sector and therefore to the European Union.
Those affected in my country feel that they have been deceived by their political leaders, who have always denied the problems in the negotiations, and the fact that there were deadlines for concluding them.
Although the formal responsibility for negotiating lies with the Commission, the governments can and should prepare the way for agreement.
We think, however, that the framework for negotiation was the association agreement with Morocco.
Maybe eleven months ago it was not right to mix fisheries and agriculture, but we have to remember that Morocco is still benefiting from agricultural concessions obtained in parallel with the fishery negotiations in 1992 and 1995, and that the European Union is the main importer of Moroccan fisheries, agricultural and industrial products.
The sector and the public want to know what measures the Commission is going to take following the collapse of these negotiations.
Mr President, today more than ever, I wish to speak on behalf of the fishermen and ship owners of Andalusia, the Canary Islands, Galicia, Barbanza, Morrazo, of La Guardia, and of the people of Spain and Portugal who need and who continue to call for a fisheries agreement to be signed between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a European problem that is affecting European citizens and which is undermining the very credibility of the Union' s institutions and their ability to address a critical aspect of international relations for which they have responsibility, such as fisheries.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, my group would like to thank you for all the efforts that you have made in these negotiations, even more so when we think that what was lacking was not a fishery negotiation strategy, but an overall strategy.
In 1995 my group maintained that the fisheries agreement with Morocco should be included as part of the text of the European association agreement with Morocco.
Morocco' s reasons cannot be found in preservation of resources.
The association agreement took an unambiguous stand on Community concessions to Morocco and today we find ourselves without a fisheries agreement.
If Morocco is intending to act as a partner, it should open up its waters to the Community small-scale fleet immediately.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as you know, this matter is of particular concern to Portugal and to Portuguese fishermen, particularly in the Sesimbra and Algarve regions.
The European Union has made concessions to Morocco, by opening up its markets to many of that country' s products, including agricultural produce, and by opening up its doors to several million Moroccan citizens who have adopted the European Union as their homeland.
That is unfortunate, but we must respect the right of Morocco to determine how to exploit its resources in its own waters.
The April 2000 report by the Scientific, Technical Economic Committee for Fisheries reviews the status of the stocks off Morocco, as well as other countries in west Africa.
The report says that there is no information on the status of these stocks.
The report also notes that octopus and hake fisheries are over-exploited and reductions in effort are needed.
We cannot keep searching around the world for more and more places to transfer our over-capacity to.
Mr President, taking account of the statements made by Commissioner Fischler, we seemed to have reached the end of a process that has been dragging on since November 1999, with damaging socio-economic consequences for the Community fleet operating in that area and for the fishing communities that have traditionally depended on those fishing grounds.
The question I would like to put is whether it is still possible to begin the negotiation of a new fisheries agreement with Morocco, with acceptable conditions.
In any event, as a result, Portugal now has around 30 boats and over 600 fishermen without any visible future.
If we accept, however, the financial demands for the fishing facilities that are being offered, then we will be creating a precedent for all the other third country agreements that we have.
We will drive up the cost for all these other agreements to an extent that would simply be irresponsible.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
The reference in the Explanatory Memorandum to the decision to establishing a reduction of EUR 41 to 35 million per year in spending on control operations is surprising, since it is very likely that the establishment of an adequate infrastructure for the control and surveillance programmes will require that today' s financial burden be increased rather than reduced in the future.
However, the experiences of recent reports which, by looking into the future, have lost some of their effectiveness, led me to take a more modest and immediate approach.
The Green Paper that was recently presented goes even further, saying that either the system must be improved, or a fatal blow will be dealt to the credibility of the CFP.
It is impossible to understand how, when this policy is such a priority, and it is so essential to reinforce it, the budget allocated to it on this occasion is not only not being increased, but is being decreased from EUR 41 to 35 million per year.
Amendment No 3 seeks to add an additional recital, Recital 12, on the budgetary mechanism.
The reason for this is that the Member States are to be given time up to this date to send us their reports on their surveillance expenditure.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
Regarding Amendments Nos 1 and 10 on predicate offences, the Commission cannot accept coverage essentially limited to organised crime.
On the treatment of the professions covered by Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 13 and 22, the Commission considers that the legal professions are a special case deserving special treatment.
On Amendments Nos 7 and 11 on the competent authorities and Amendment No 9 on the definition of financial institutions, the Commission has a preference for the text of the common position.
Amendment No 14 constitutes, in the Commission's view, an excessive extension of the coverage of non-financial activities.
Regarding Amendments Nos 15 and 16 on client identification, the Commission is satisfied that the common position offers the necessary flexibility.
Amendments Nos 17 and 28 deal with the special case of client identification where there is no face-to-face contact.
Amendment No 18 calls for a revision of the exemptions from client identification for certain insurance contracts.
The Commission believes that Amendments Nos 21 and 24 bridge the basic no tipping-off rule.
Amendments Nos 23 and 25 amend provisions of the 1991 directive which, in the Commission's view, do not need to be changed.
Finally, Amendments Nos 26 and 27 refer to the role of OLAF.
The amendments are, therefore, unnecessary. (The President declared the common position approved as amended) Recommendation for second reading (A5-0079/2001), by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 79/373/EEC on the circulation of compound feedingstuffs and repealing Commission Directive 91/357/EEC (13292/1/2000 - C5­0002/2001 - 2000/0015(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf) President.
The current position includes the amendments accepted by the Commission at first reading.
The Commission considers that this common position provides a level of safety equivalent to that set out in the Commission's initial proposal.
Mr President, over the past few weeks, we have seen how important a stable Macedonia is which is able to solve its internal disagreements.
Having said that, it would be even worse if a majority of this Parliament were to declare that Macedonia should be denied this right.
Piecyk Report (A5-0111/2001) The Piecyk report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism approves the conciliation agreement between the European Parliament and the Council on the criteria to be applied to seaports, inland ports and intermodal terminals so that they can become eligible for funding under the heading of the trans-European networks (TEN).
Public funding, however, must be for public facilities and public services.
Now the ambiguity facing the European Union, which recurs in this report, revolves specifically around the future status, public or private, of port installations.
We recognise the absolute need to maintain the right to be defended but in no case should this mean impunity for anyone committing a crime.
The war against money laundering can no longer be waged by an isolated government.
For it to be effective, cooperation between the Member States must be organised.
It has become absolutely necessary to involve the legal professions in the operation against money laundering, otherwise the European system of preventing and combating dirty money will be ineffective.
There is no question, however, of lawyers accepting any threat to professional secrecy or the confidentiality of their relationship with their clients.
So those amendments are unacceptable.
It is equally important that we adopt practical measures on crime against the economy, which results, specifically, from money laundering.
Money laundering is not simply restricted to Manchester or to Madrid.
Graefe zu Baringdorf Report (A5-0079/2001) We have voted for the recommendation for the sole reason that it advocates some sensible measures, like, for example, 'the positive definition of permissible feed materials' .
Nevertheless, this report was framed during a broader discussion of animal feedingstuffs, on which the Commission made a statement regarding the options for encouraging the planting of protein crops in the EU, taking account of the Agricultural Council of December 2000, which bans the use of animal meal in feedingstuffs for breeding animals, and insists on the need to replace animal protein with vegetable protein.
It is clear that this demand cannot relate solely to the end product.
So we have a fundamental interest in documenting the history of our food and making it transparent.
Sanders-ten Holte Report (A5-0093/2001) Mr President, like many of the Members, including yourself, I am sure, in two hours' time I will be on a plane.
Camisón Asensio Report (A5-0096/2001) Mr President, this document coordinates rail, road and inland waterway transport.
The first part of the report by Mrs Kessler - a name that, in the minds of us Italians, invokes two beautiful, excellent, very famous German ballerinas and which therefore lifts my spirits, despite the fact that the subject of the document is somewhat tedious - states, with regard to Grotius II, that there are funds for training, work experience placement exchanges, studies, research, meetings and seminars in the field of judicial cooperation, money which will go to judges, public prosecutors, lawyers, law officials, experts and interpreters.
These rights are guaranteed under Articles 5 and 6 of the European Convention of Human Rights.
Kessler Report (A5-0091/2001) Mr President, I supported this document on the establishment of a European Judicial Network in civil and commercial matters, particularly because it lays down that information sheets - vade-mecum - are to be issued so that those who are involved in this European Judicial Network know how to apply it practically.
In any democratic system, the arm of justice must not only operate effectively but must be seen to do so and it must command the respect of the people.
Therefore, the setting up of the EUROJUST programme with the co-operation of the judiciaries within the various EU Member States is a very important movement towards building a greater understanding of justice.
I fully support this common-sense strategy which broadens the system of cooperation between national authorities.
In light of enlargement, the applicant countries should also be allowed to participate in the contact meetings.
Jové Peres Report (A5-0098/2001) Auroi Report (A5-0117/2001) . (PT) I welcome the rapporteur' s proposals amending the proposal for a Council decision on a financial contribution by the Community to certain expenditure incurred by the Member States in implementing the control, inspection and surveillance systems applicable to the common fisheries policy.
Control is important in guaranteeing a form of fishing that is responsible, sustainable and fair and the Community must therefore finance its costs and the necessary investment, bearing in mind that each Member State is responsible for implementing the system in its own economic area.
The rapporteur proposes increasing Community cofinancing from 30% to 35% in training and investment actions, with 100% financing of eligible expenditure disbursed by the Member States for control and surveillance activities under EU participation in regional fishing organisations.
I venture to hope, on behalf of my group, and no doubt on behalf of many others, that the Council will understand and follow our lead in the matter.
Reading the Commission' s report on vegetable proteins in the context of the ban on meat and bone meal, I was deeply shocked by the authors' apparent contempt for their fellow citizens.
The measures proposed in the Commission' s seven- point plan (authorising the production of fodder legumes on land set aside on organic farms) is sympathetic but in no way commensurate with the challenge.
Given the Community deficit in vegetable protein production, the limitations of the Blair House agreement and the ban on the use of animal meal in feedingstuffs for breeding animals, it has become necessary to create a genuine internal system of support for the production of fodder legumes and protein crops.
In our view, the quota system should have been reviewed, especially in the Mediterranean countries, and in Greece in particular, where quotas are far below self-sufficiency and potential production levels and where the method of producing animal proteins is far healthier than the method used in the economically advanced countries of the EU, where quotas far exceed requirements, with the result that they export the dangers inherent in their feedingstuffs to all the countries with shortfalls, including Greece.
Instead of which, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has used various tricks, believing that the problem of BSE will be forgotten in time, in an endeavour to restore animal protein in animal feedingstuffs in six months' time.
The alibi which the Committee is using for these endeavours takes the form of the proposal to cultivate certain land set aside from arable crops with fodder legumes, allegedly in order to increase the production of vegetable proteins; at the same time, however, it bans the production of seed on this land and restricts it solely to hay production, and unsubsidised hay production at that.
Under this proposal, little or no vegetable proteins will be produced, even in countries with extensive set aside.
The Commission proposal is going in the right direction but it limits itself to proposing a symbolic modification, the impact of which, limited solely to organic farming, is not going to give visible results.
The answer is two-fold.
One animal can spend different stages of its life in several parts of a country, or even of Europe.
Secondly, the massive slaughter seems to be motivated by economic reasons which are not always transparent.
With the development of the world market in cattle and meat, however, agri-industry has given it an international epidemic dimension it did not have before.
The market imposes its own health requirements too, with tragic consequences.
Elementary respect for life, protection of local economies, maintenance of a thriving social fabric in the rural environment, and the living and working conditions of country people have all been ignored in the definition of health policies in response to the foot-and-mouth epidemic.
Stockholm European Council: Economic and social aspects (RC B5-0237/2001) Mr President, before explaining why I voted against this document of the Stockholm European Council, I must explain why I am speaking in English.
It is to make a present to the Italian interpreters, the Italian workers who, every day, have to work much more than the others to translate and put in writing my explanations of votes.
Finally, the third part, which should be the most substantial, could set out certain guidelines that the Heads of State and Government intend to follow in their respective countries, particularly as regards managing the economy and social affairs - which was on the Stockholm agenda.
And the solution is to increase employment in the 55-64 age group by 50% by 2010, at a time when workers, especially young people and women, are suffering from the scourge of unemployment and under-employment.
To say that 'unemployment has fallen to its lowest level since 1991' is an involuntary way of recognising that it is still as high as it was ten years ago, when it was already catastrophic.
Some points even threaten a worse situation, particularly in terms of longer working hours and attacks on retirement age.
It was an important summit in economic and social terms, however, and entirely in line with the Lisbon Summit, with the reaffirmation of the need to take action to secure full employment and skilled jobs in Europe.
So unless we want to acknowledge the death of the European social model, we cannot stand by and do nothing, and personally, since 31 March, I have been lobbying the highest European and French authorities to propose measures to end this diabolical spiral.
If these are not forthcoming, there will be no point in organising any summits on employment and social policy in the future.
There should be a European summit on this vital issue for the equilibrium and future of Europe, in the course of 2001.
Between now and 2003 a single market in securities will be established to allow a few profiteers to speculate in shares and bonds.
So, in the utmost opacity, financial dealings are encouraged and will revolve even more rapidly in the hands of a few industrialists, playing with the fate of millions of employees in passing.
That would be an effective means of combating money laundering and controlling the financial enterprises of companies, like Danone and Marks and Spencer, which persist in sacking people while making record profits.
Stockholm European Council: Financial Markets (B5-0244/2001) Stockholm European Council: Foreign affairs (B5-0248/2001) Despite the belittling of the results of the Stockholm Summit by most of the media, progress was made, responding to the objectives of the economic and financial groups that dominate the European economy, as the Commission' s proposal made very clear.
However, we have reservations about paragraph 13.
The directive is not appropriate for several reasons, but the issue is important and we should deal with it in our domestic setting." (Commons Hansard Debates 18 January 2001) The Stockholm Summit will not be remembered for its successes, the endeavours of the Swedish Presidency notwithstanding.
Although the decision announced recently by the United States to reject the Kyoto Protocol has not come as a surprise, it is nonetheless extremely serious.
It comes as no surprise because despite the fact that the United States signed the Kyoto Protocol in 1997, at successive United Nations Conferences designed to finalise the rules for implementing the Protocol, it has presented various excuses to block negotiations.
The non-participation of the United States does make the Protocol less comprehensive, but does not detract from its raison d' être.
Our duty as elected representatives and citizens is to make the Chinese leaders, legal, yes, but certainly not legitimate, understand that only democracy and the rule of law can guarantee stability not just in China itself but also in the whole of the Asian continent.
It is our duty to remind the Council that the European Union cannot continue to take a hypocritical stance and that it must support this resolution, sponsor it and work actively in the Human Rights Commission for its adoption.
Without intending to be either anti-Chinese or pro-Chinese, I repeat that China is a fundamental country in a regional and continental context where Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia and many other countries are experiencing enormous problems, and where Vietnam and Laos too are still ruled by a one-party regime.
I feel that if the countries of the European Union stick by their decision not to sign the resolution on human rights in China, that would only be confirmation of that inability.
Mr President, China is very much in our minds at the moment following the incident involving the American EP-3 reconnaissance aircraft.
Otherwise this matter will become a running sore, poisoning international relations at a very sensitive time.
The Chinese Government seems anxious to play a fuller part in the international community, particularly in terms of economic development and eventual membership of the WTO.
This applies not just in the field of international relations, but in terms of domestic policy as well.
The Falun Gong movement is violently suppressed and some 80 of its members are reported to have died in custody in China in the past 18 months.
A great country like China is surely sufficiently robust and forward-looking that it can give real freedom to all the peoples living under its authority.
Even setting aside this event, reports from China are, nevertheless, pouring in thick and fast.
The world' s most populous country is systematically violating its citizens' rights.
We will be voting in favour of the resolution because, ultimately, we are naturally all agreed on the human rights situation in China.
That is an advance on last year, when the Member States were still divided.
At the same time, we must continue to speak in clear terms on human rights and condemn as and when appropriate.
The living conditions of the bulk of the Chinese population have improved over the last twenty years as economic reform and liberalisation have given citizens a certain degree of economic and social freedom.
As you know, back in 1996 we set up a bilateral dialogue with China, which provides a suitable forum for frank exchanges of views which I can bear witness to, having attended the last summit meeting between China and the European Union during the French Presidency.
A number of positive signs have emerged, such as the ratification of the UN Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights on 28 February and the signing, last November, of the outline agreement with the UN High Commission for Human Rights which, we hope, will now be implemented.
As far as the United Nations is concerned, during the General Affairs Council meeting on 19 March, we decided to back the resolution on China tabled by the United States within the Human Rights Commission in Geneva, should that resolution be put to the vote.
We restated our position in Geneva on 29 March that we take the issue of the violation of human rights seriously wherever it occurs in the world.
As to the question of co-sponsoring the resolution, we feel that the dialogue on human rights between the European Union and China is a privileged channel of communication working to improve the situation in the many spheres of concern to us.
As regards this year' s decision, namely that we will support a motion for a resolution which we do not co-sponsor, this does not mean to say that we rule out the possibility of returning to this mechanism at a later date.
This is the position which was adopted in January on the EU-China dialogue and in the conclusions of the General Affairs Council meeting on 19 March.
However, in any event, the European Union must keep to its obligations.
Mr President, the Social Democrats in the European Parliament would like to make a strong plea in favour of strengthening the action to prevent climatic change, ensuring that it does not in any way weaken and that the Gothenburg summit will send a clear message regarding the wishes of Europeans.
Mr President, it is scandalous that President Bush is boycotting the Kyoto Protocol.
Major American oil concerns, such as Exxon, Texaco and Chevron have helped Bush into the saddle.
The EU must respond by ratifying the Kyoto Protocol before the summer of 2002.
These 55 countries combined account for 55% of emissions.
The political pleas by Commissioner Wallström and the troika were to no avail.
Boycott Exxon, Texaco and Chevron.
And one of the objectives of this debate is to comply with the decisions made in Kyoto, which we consider to be an unavoidable objective for the European Union.
It is immoral, and we have to say so here loud and clear, because while the annual average CO2 emissions of a European are 10 tonnes, the average for an American is 24 tonnes and developing countries are way below the average.
We need to act unilaterally, not only on the basis that we need to look after the competitiveness of companies, but also on the basis that, from an economic point of view, the most reasonable thing to do is to support the Kyoto Protocol and take specific and clear measures aimed at implementing and ratifying the Kyoto Protocol.
I think that in Europe we can once again set an example if all the European countries ratify the Protocol, if they start to take unilateral measures and if they force the United States, in transatlantic relations, not to continue acting in such an immoral way.
For President Bush to tell the EU delegation in Washington this week that he acknowledges both the problem and the need to find a solution is hollow rhetoric, when the US distances itself from the only solution on the table, and that a partial solution at best.
The longer-term consequences will be far more difficult to resolve.
The promotion and protection of economic competitiveness is inextricably linked to the protection of the environment.
Viewed this way, environmental protection becomes part of a virtuous circle whereby a high-quality environment is sustained by wealth, which in turn is sustained by competition, which in turn requires a high-quality environment.
Mr President, I have requested the floor first and foremost to express my full support for the resolution that has been tabled by the various groups and for the battle which I hope the European Parliament and the entire European Union will wage firmly and resolutely on this matter.
It is with deep regret that the Europeans and all those who are sincere friends of the United States see a great country, which ought to be the leading light not just of economic progress but also of human civilisation in all fields, abandon one of the fundamental principles: the protection of the environment, of health and of the world that, in years to come, we will be leaving to our children and heirs.
We must, in fact, ask ourselves whether a political position such as that we are adopting, a position putting pressure on the public, is enough in this matter, or whether more tangible action might not be required.
Now, President Bush has spoken his mind and said openly that the United States does not intend to participate in the Kyoto process because the Protocol, as he puts it, excludes 80 per cent of the world and would seriously damage the American economy.
Mr President, I wish to express my support for the positions put forward by our fellow Member, Jorge Moreira da Silva, who led our delegation at the Hague Conference on Climate Change and who demonstrated enormous commitment to achieving the compromise that we reached, fortunately, on this resolution.
My fourth and final point is that the European Union must now redouble its efforts and demonstrate effective leadership, both within the European Union, by fighting against the increase in emissions that we are seeing today in most of our fifteen Member States and beyond the Union, by ensuring that Kyoto is ratified by as many countries as possible so that it can enter into force before 2002.
With or without the United States, the European Union must sign the Kyoto Protocol.
Public opinion supports us in this.
I welcome the protests made by the European Union, other major countries and Member States.
The United States, which signed the Kyoto Protocol in 1998, must be called to account.
Commissioner, as we know from past experience that a verbal protest will not be enough, in order to apply effective pressure it would be judicious to include environmental clauses in international commercial negotiations.
It is the future of the planet and of our children that is at stake.
The more credible we ourselves are, the stronger our arguments will be in relation to the United States.
It is clear that President Bush is only representing the interests of US industry.
President Bush is not a world leader, he is actually a prehistoric monster because he cannot understand what is happening in this world.
The decision by President of the United States to reject even the cautious commitments of the Kyoto Protocol on emissions of six greenhouse gases into the atmosphere is clearly totally irresponsible from the point of view of the environment and the interests of humanity.
However, the verbal clashes on this subject between the United States and the other industrial powers are hypocritical.
We are not going to settle for these contacts, and we have also decided that this troika will hold talks with Canada and will initiate talks in the coming weeks with Russia, Iran, China and Japan.
The problem is very serious.
At the same time, the European Union declared its intention to continue negotiations within the Kyoto framework, despite the fact that the United States had dropped out.
So we have clearly reaffirmed our commitment to ratify the Kyoto Protocol in 2002 at the latest and, to this end, preparations are under way.
May I say that it is a sorry spectacle to see an arbitrary power which has claimed to be a state for 25 years, which has not been recognised by the international community for 25 years, now trying to impose its de facto presence by engaging in gangster-type abductions.
Mr President, I would like to express my agreement with Mr Katiforis.
The European Union has the means to exert pressure and could use them.
At the same time, however, the European Union has huge economic, political and military interests in Turkey and it is obviously these interests that dictate its conduct.
Mr President, I should like us all to vigorously support the motion for a resolution on the liberation of Mr Tsiakourmas.
I am pleased to represent both communities as residents of London, and both deserve equal respect for themselves and their culture.
Illegal action is illegal wherever it happens and this case must be solved without it becoming a weapon in a propaganda war.
The conspiracy of silence has been broken and it has come to light that Catholic priests and bishops are guilty of criminal acts against nuns in at least 23 countries.
However much the Vatican official, Joachim Navarro Vals, has attempted to play down the issue or restrict it solely to Africa, sexual abuse and violation of the fundamental rights of women are a fact of life and, of course, neither bishops nor priests are above the law.
In another community, 20 nuns had to be dismissed because they had become pregnant, in many cases by priests.
Secondly, nuns have been harmed in various countries.
Examples have been quoted of certain countries where they were obliged to become second and third wives in a family as a result of losing their social status in the local culture.
Mr President, I think that we were all shocked when both in the Balkans and in Africa rape was used as yet another weapon of war.
I am therefore completely in agreement with the resolution that we are going to put forward here today and that those responsible should be tried and punished like any other citizens who infringe people' s dignity.
This is no isolated incident.
The Vatican must lose no time in punishing those responsible, apologise to the women affected, investigate properly what happened and publish the report in its entirety.
In our opinion, sexual abuse of women is too serious to be used for political ends and for placing religious communities, in this case the Catholic Church, in a bad light.
We consider rape and sexual abuse to be violations of fundamental human rights and of human dignity.
The Catholic community of faith and the Holy See have always rejected violence and sexual abuse, both on the basis of Christian values and of international treaties and obligations.
There are more than 404 000 priests and nearly 820 000 nuns worldwide.
The fact that irresponsible members of the clergy have committed these acts of abuse, especially in developing countries where women often play a subordinate role culturally compared to men, does not mean that the majority of nuns and priests in the world are not dedicated: they are often the first to be self-effacing in the fight for peace and justice and against poverty.
We want an effective response to all incidents and expect churches and other responsible organisations to step up their efforts to do everything in their power to prevent this from happening in future.
The Catholic Church has also been offended by the reprehensible actions of some of its members.
I voted against the proposal.
The individual' s responsibility should not disappear in the anonymity of large institutions.
The American magazine 'National Catholic Reporter' lists 23 countries where sexual abuse occurs.
The Vatican must recognise the relevant issue and must give a clear account of the measures which are being taken to ban such practices in future.
Finally, I would like to express my appreciation for the scrapping of recital H from the original resolution.
I cannot, however, support this resolution which targets one specific church; a church which has acknowledged and condemned the cases in question and which has made clear it is taking measures in cooperation with the competent church representatives and civil authorities against the perpetrators involved.
This must be clearly understood to be a fact when we form opinions in a delicate matter such as this.
Pakistan Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years ago, when the SAARC was established, the South Asian countries and the European Union laid the foundations of an ambitious partnership of development and freedom of expression.
In 1999, a few months after the coup, in my capacity as Vice-Chairman of the South East Asia delegation, I met the ambassador of Pakistan, at his request, who ensured me that the military junta which had just snatched power from Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif would quickly prepare the ground for a democratic Pakistan.
The European Parliament cannot remain silent when faced with a situation which holds sway in a country with which the European Union has cooperated for so long.
Following Commander Massud' s visit to the European Parliament, the Pakistani Embassy addressed the President of our Parliament with a plea for a negotiated solution in Afghanistan.
It has to help Pakistan on its way to the rule of law and strive towards a sustainable peace in the region.
This would be our contribution to a great national day in Pakistan.
The announcement of elections appears to be no more than a diversion to mislead the international community.
European development aid must remain focused on education and other social programmes.
Pakistan is an important country in the region but, unfortunately, its Government appears to alternate between corrupt regimes and military juntas.
Rights of homosexuals in Namibia Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read you a newspaper report: Today, President X from country Y has called on that country' s regional authorities to point out Jews and black people in their regions so that they can be arrested.
Namibia' s President made his appeal to cleanse his country, as he said, of homosexuals, on 19 March.
Sexual orientation towards people of the same sex is of all times and all cultures.
He only needs to look at his South African neighbours, something which, in fact, his colleagues Mr Mugabe and Mr Museveni should also do.
According to my group, the protection of human rights inside and outside Europe forms an integral part of this.
This is the year 2001.
President Mugabe of Zimbabwe terms homosexuals and lesbians, in his own words: 'animals which have to be exterminated' .
In the spirit of the new Cotonou Agreement, I believe that the persecution of homosexuals should be taken into consideration in the assessment of our cooperation with developing countries.
The British Government raised the issue on a number of occasions both with the leader of the Turkish Cypriot community and with the authorities in Ankara.
The General Affairs Council is going to look into this case when it meets next Monday.
For our part, we in the Commission are still keeping a watchful eye on developments in the situation from our delegation office in Nicosia.
Like Mr Katiforis, I think that this case, like many others, must be seen in the context of the political situation in Cyprus.
We are taking every opportunity to contact the parties involved in order, as you know, to try to promote a political solution to the partitioning of the island.
Coming to the second item under the heading of human rights, which is your motion for a resolution on violence against nuns, we feel that the case of the Catholic nuns constitutes a serious violation of the fundamental rights of women and is a dreadful example of violence against them.
Political parties cannot and must not be excluded from political life in Pakistan any more than elsewhere, since it is clear they are called upon to play an important role in the country' s future.
We are expecting to see tangible progress in the restoration of representative democracy at all levels, beginning with the holding of elections in provincial and national assemblies on the basis of a clear and credible timetable.
The Pakistani authorities have given a firm commitment to the EU troika that it will respect the timeframe, which was established by the Supreme Court, of three years following the military coup until the organisation of these elections.
As far as the last item is concerned, which is the situation of homosexuals in Namibia, like the authors of this resolution, we were amazed and concerned to read the recent statement on homosexuality which was given by the Namibian President, Sam Nujoma, calling for the persecution of people identified as homosexuals.
Our position also reflects the position which was publicly adopted by the Government of the Republic of Namibia, evidence of which can be found in its constitution and in all the international conventions on human rights which this country has ratified.
As a result, we are in favour of any overtures made to the Namibian authorities to try to clarify this matter and to express the wish that these recent statements do not constitute a repudiation of Namibia' s existing constitutional provisions, which ban such discrimination.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Lamy.
I would like to take this opportunity to announce to our visitors that on Thursday the European Parliament always takes two and a half hours to discuss acute problems and acute violations of human rights around the world.
The debate is closed.
Situation in Mexico The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B5-0262/2001 by Mr Seguro and Mr Naïr on behalf of the PSE Group; B5-0275/2001 by Mr Knörr Borràs and Mr Lipietz on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group; B5-0283/2001 by Mr Marset Campos and others on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group; B5-0289/2001 by Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra and others on behalf of the PPE-DE Group; B5-0297/2001 by Mr Gasòliba i Böhm and others on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the situation in Mexico.
Obviously, we are paying close attention, as we have always done, to developments in the situation in Chiapas and last year, as chairman of Parliament' s delegation to Central America and Mexico, I myself led a European Parliament delegation that visited Chiapas.
This agreement opens the way for dialogue and understanding.
It was a great day for Mexico, for the indigenous people within and outside Mexico, and for the establishment of a culture of dialogue, understanding and cooperation between all the political and social forces as a means of solving conflicts.
Our group would also like to make it clear, in line with what was expressed yesterday in the delegation, that we have no hesitations about the indigenous Zapatista movement being present in this House.
And it is possible that some of our colleagues in Parliament will throw up their hands in horror, and even say that we need to keep up appearances, and that they are against hooded men and women appearing in Parliament.
We also think that it goes in the direction of the agreement between the European Union and Mexico to promote a series of greater democratic freedoms and support for the political culture in Mexico, which is very important.
We therefore think that this resolution would be improved if two amendments that we propose were accepted: on the one hand, recognising that it is important that the Members from the ZNLA appear in Congress and, on the other hand, inviting representatives of the Zapatista movement to come here, through the delegation for relations with Central America, or also through other committees, such as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy or the Committee on Development and Cooperation, according to our customs, and to explain their points of view.
Mr President, I join my colleagues who have welcomed the fact that we have come to a time when there is recognition of an indigenous people that for a long time has been isolated and, what is more, in a complex situation, because there were people who considered themselves to be their representatives and who actually were not.
I think that we must congratulate President Fox, his political group and all the Mexican political forces that have been capable of understanding that there needs to be direct understanding with minorities because democracy requires representatives and direct spokespeople and, at the same time, the acceptance of a culture of diversity, something that Europe is defending and which is part of our identity.
The new Mexican Government and the Zapatista National Liberation Army have confirmed that they are committed to finding a political solution and we believe, as you do, that they have opened up the way to finding a peaceful solution to this conflict.
In this context, we obviously welcome the fact that the new global agreement which was signed by the European Union and Mexico has recently come into force.
In addition to cooperation on human rights, democracy and the proper management of public affairs, this agreement also provides us with a legal framework for cooperation in cultural matters, education and training, and which pays particular attention, as is the case given Mexico' s needs, to the most disadvantaged sections of society.
We also have a framework of regional cooperation and, last of all and most importantly, we have a spotlight on social affairs and poverty, which includes vulnerable groups such as the indigenous population, whilst taking into account the need to respect the fundamental rights of these indigenous Mexican people as distinct groups.
The vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
They had been captured on 27 March last together with a further seven westerners and a Somali by the warlord Musse Sudi Yalahow.
Of course, we are reassured by their release, but it does not diminish our concern at the failure to respect human rights and our condemnation of the continued acts of violence and banditry perpetrated by the armed militia in Somalia.
It is vital that the temporary Somali Government does everything possible to initiate constructive dialogue working towards peace, stability and national reconciliation with all the parties involved, Somali community leaders and the authorities of Somaliland and Puntland.
We all need to renounce the use of arms in order to be able to address the country's serious political, social and economic problems, so that all the parties tackle the issues of the management of aid, education, health and the economy together.
The European Union, in particular, must provide all the financial and technical assistance necessary to guarantee the success of the peace initiative of the Intergovernmental Development Authority and Djibouti, but, in particular, it must, as it did in the case of the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea, undertake a coherent political initiative and speak with one voice to promote dialogue and negotiation to resolve the country's most urgent problems.
Therefore, Mr President, we must continue to give our solidarity, with the same conviction, to all those working behind the scenes, to all the NGOs which are easy targets for one simple reason - and that is because they often work in a non-partisan manner.
I believe that we must now go further by also forcing this Government to take its place around the negotiating table with all the parties, all the political parties, involved in this conflict.
We must send an equally powerful message.
A constructive dialogue between the Government and the other leading figures is the only realistic solution.
The Governments of Somaliland and Puntland must also be involved in this, and third countries, such as Ethiopia, must be warned against disturbing the peace process in any way.
You may rely on the Commission to take prompt action in offering aid to help to rebuild the country in every aspect, and God knows that this needs to be done.
The aid receives the full support of all the political authorities of the European Union, and the troika mission that the European Union recently sent to Somalia enabled us to witness the extent to which Commission aid is both indispensable and appreciated in the regions that were visited.
We have decided to continue to support rehabilitation in all the areas of Somalia where peace has more or less been established, and, in particular, Somaliland and Puntland, by applying the approach that was adopted and which is known as 'dividends of peace' .
At the same time, we are supporting the transitional government in its efforts to establish an environment of peace and security in the area of the country that is still affected by the conflict and where there are no administrative structures.
There are regions in Somalia where rehabilitation is not possible under the current circumstances, and in these regions, we shall continue to provide humanitarian aid in the form of ECHO, which is working with the NGOs and United Nations agencies.
The European Union has adopted a policy, in particular in the statement made on 8 September 2000, and this policy, I would reiterate, urges the transitional Government to enter into immediate dialogue with the current authorities - I mentioned Somaliland and Puntland earlier - in order to avoid losing the momentum created by the Arta process, in line with the resolutions made at the Summit of East African Heads of State.
In any case, and I would reiterate this as far as we are concerned, we shall not support any attempt, from any quarter, which seeks to establish the authority of a government in Somalia through the use of force and which would threaten the situation of peace and stability, albeit fragile, but real nonetheless, that has been attained and which is present in various regions of Somalia.
We cannot accept a peace process that leads to further conflict in regions where peace has been established with the active support of the international community, and on this issue, we support the speakers who have called for this resolution.
Thank you, Commissioner Lamy.
Everyone agreed on describing the job of fisherman (270 000 in the European Union) as a very dangerous profession, and also largely on the analysis of the reasons why fisheries has an accident rate that is up to 25 times higher than other economic sectors, and that one fisherman in seven in the European Union is involved in an occupational accident each year.
We have unacceptable accident rates and we need to step up controls, raise awareness among ship owners and fishermen and, if necessary, encourage legislative changes in order to reduce them.
We need to consider the social and labour conditions of seafarers and improve their working conditions, as they endure irregular rest times and working patterns based on working days of more than 14 hours.
This sector needs to be given a right to constant weekly and daily rest and, if necessary, the public authorities should intervene in order to impose what is the fundamental right of any worker.
These hard working conditions mean, for example, that young people do not want to join the industry, which prevents the new generation from taking over.
We need to establish social dialogue in the sector, at European level, in order to reach collective agreements incorporating these issues of safety at work, consult more with the sector, provide those working in fisheries with social protection similar to that of other workers and develop a culture of safety among employers and workers.
My group has always thought that in this House we should talk not only about issues associated with fishing resources, but also about the human problems that affect seafarers.
In summary, ladies and gentlemen, this is a report about an issue that has not been dealt with so far.
It is the first of these reports and will possibly be followed by second and third reports on accidents in fisheries.
Mr President, our Dutch colleague, Mr Maat, is shadow rapporteur for my political group for the report by our distinguished colleague, Mrs Miguélez Ramos.
It will be impossible to decrease this number to zero due to the special features of the sector, but at least we should try and decrease the number of accidents as much as possible.
This could be accomplished by improving some preconditions: first of all, better control on working conditions and safety on the fishing vessels that operate in the waters of the European Union.
Furthermore, it is important to improve harmonisation and coordination between Member States as a whole.
Regular controls on safety and working conditions should take place on all EU fishing vessels regardless of whether they are small, large, old or new.
It is highly necessary to create a safety culture in this sector, so that all the interested parties know about the situation, which is very special, and respect their responsibilities.
Fishermen need our active moral and legislative support especially in the area of safety at work.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Miguélez Ramos, the fisherman' s profession or vocation, call it what you will, has always been one of the toughest and most dangerous in the world.
We now have the means to act, as long as there is the desire to act in this field.
I therefore support not only her diagnosis, but also all the proposals, recommendations, encouragement, suggested measures and warnings contained in the report and I fully agree with its motives.
If the Commission and the Council give a favourable welcome to the content of the report and put it into practice, in a few years we will have fewer accidents, fewer deaths, fewer shipwrecks and less risk at sea.
Mr President, I would like this report to contribute to the Commission giving up once and for all its obsession that a modern fleet runs counter to the protection of resources.
There are many measures for maintaining and even reducing the fishing effort, while at the same time enabling living and safety conditions for crews to be improved.
The report that we are debating today, like all those that have been drawn up regarding safety, shows that the fact the fleet is so old is the main cause both of accidents on board and of sinking, and that sinking often has very serious consequences.
As a result of this report and also because of the timetable set out by the new fishing policy, we now have the opportunity to include this point in the Green Paper and we will later be able to include it in the common fisheries policy.
But the accident toll could undoubtedly be reduced if the fishing industry and individual fishermen, national authorities, the EU and international organisations faced this vital issue with enough thought, consideration, political will and economic means.
It is essential that we do not create a management regime which forces fishermen to go to sea when the weather is bad, for example, in complying with days-at-sea restrictions or attempting to land fish in a designated port cut off by bad weather.
Finally, although a gradual ban on vessels more than 20 years old can be supported, the latter part of paragraph 4 in the report says, and I quote: ". . .
Also there have been many cases of fishing vessels being dragged under or rammed by submarines.
Finally, many fishermen think that learning to swim is a bad omen.
The safety of our fishermen must be given top priority.
Safety and health on board vessels are part and parcel of our overall strategy both in the bilateral agreements and in the regional fisheries organisations, as well as in the fight against illegal fishing and flying flags of convenience.
All of us - the European Parliament, the Commission, the Council, the Member States and international organisations - must do our outmost to ensure that the risk for our fishermen is reduced to an absolute minimum.
The debate is closed.
As they are part of the single market it is clear that issues concerning freedom in the single market are also extremely important for the liberal professions.
Mr Monti was attending an international conference when he said that, in his view, setting tariffs for liberal professions, which up to a point is done according to the law in some Member States through such mechanisms as fee scales for lawyers, is not without its problems under competition law.
Commission. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, promoting competition amongst the liberal professions in the interests of consumers is one of the avowed priorities of my colleague, Mario Monti.
I welcome this opportunity to be able to present our policy to Parliament on his behalf and to comment on it.
A rule which is solely targeted at guaranteeing top quality services without distorting competition is clearly in the interests of consumers.
Whether a rule is a purely professional rule must be determined from one case to the next.
In so doing, account must be taken of the impact of the rule on the freedom of action of members of the profession or of professional organisations as well as consumers.
As far as determining compulsory tariffs or rates of charges is concerned, it depends, firstly, on who determines the fees or rates of charges and, secondly, on what interests are taken into consideration.
A price agreement reached between members of a given profession, that is, between competitors, is a fundamental violation of competition rules.
A breach of contract takes place if a Member State transfers its power to determine fees to a professional association without reserving the right of supervision.
The Court of Justice just recently pointed out that advertising on every market is an important competitiveness factor since, in this way, the advantages of individual market participants, the quality of their services and tariffs are conveyed more clearly.
Mr President, first may I say that I am speaking on behalf of my colleague, Lord Inglewood, who is an expert on this topic and who has had to return to London at short notice.
Currently I am my group's shadow rapporteur on EMAC on a proposed directive for a single market and free movement for insurance mediators, whose commissions are often fixed.
Therefore these concepts apply to a number of different professionals other than lawyers, as I have already mentioned.
The single market is one of the major achievements of the European Community and for that market to be complete it must include services as well as goods.
Because I was thinking a moment ago that in the last part-session, Commissioner Reding, sitting where Commissioner Fischler is sitting now, gave us a detailed explanation of the agreement that had been reached between the Commission, FIFA and UEFA.
Using the words of Karl Marx, here quality becomes quantity, or the reverse, if you like, because lawyers are defending interests that can be quantified.
In the different countries of the Community, or at least in some of them, there is a system of protection through professional organisations, which is not perfect and could be improved but which at least establishes some guarantees, as there are too many unscrupulous lawyers who, left to the free interaction of supply and demand, could be tempted to act and abuse their position.
That is to say, I think that there are real problems, but that those real problems cannot be solved by mathematically applying the rules of Community competition and much less by focusing solely on the criterion of prices.
I think that the ideal would be for us to have a professional lawyers' organisation covering the whole Community, not so much in order to protect lawyers but to protect consumers.
Secondly, a constituent of mine recently came to me with a history of a dispute over the last 15 years.
That is why I ask colleagues to support the amendments tabled by my group.
In fact the first rule dates back to 1993.
I believe that, in my introductory comment, I said a great deal about consumer protection being our top priority.
The debate is closed.
