The effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission - B7-0209/2009) by Eva Joly, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation.
My colleagues from the Committee on Development and I worked tirelessly to ensure that the resolution was voted on and debated in plenary before the G20 Summit in Pittsburgh.
Concerning the reform of the Bretton Woods institutions, our role in promoting their reform is, of course, limited.
In its 8 April communication, the Commission also underlined the useful contribution of innovative funding mechanisms as a complementary and mutually reinforcing instrument with ODA.
There will be high-level discussions on this subject, including a major conference in 2010 organised by the French, which will involve the Commission upstream.
All the social sectors of poor countries are going to find themselves faced with a sharp rise in social needs, in particular, and in needs for services, and with a very significant fall in growth.
The real challenge, as you have obviously realised, Commissioner, will be to force the Member States to honour their 2005 commitments.
The countries of the South lose USD 1 000 billion each year in funds transferred illegally to the North, USD 350 billion of which pass through tax havens.
Mr President, the question tabled by Mrs Joly on behalf of the Committee on Development brings up the issue of what we, as development policy makers, are actually trying to achieve in this debate.
If we do not succeed in applying pressure and making it clear that we need new institutions specifically in order to support the poorest countries in the world, then we will still be sitting here after Pittsburgh pointing out that, ultimately, nothing has changed.
I have in mind the US-South Africa Summit, your visit to Zimbabwe at the end of this week, and the emergency assistance provided in recent days for the 100 000 victims of the floods in West Africa.
I also appreciate that you allocated EUR 53 million last week to respond to the drought in sub-Saharan countries.
These are encouraging indicators which I hope will influence the talks at the G20 Summit in Pittsburgh and the Copenhagen conference, as these meetings are critical nowadays with the millennium development goals facing a major risk of failure. (CS) Commissioner, I too would like to say how disappointed I am that the promises of the G20 concerning assistance for the poorest countries during the economic crisis were clearly not meant seriously.
At the same time, I would like to ask you, Commissioner, whether it has been possible to maintain, in particular, health assistance and education in ACP countries at least at pre-crisis levels?
Based on these confirmations and higher national pledges of some Member States, the EU should collectively reach 0.56% of ODA by 2010.
The forecasted trend of a continuing increase in EU ODA relies on those Member States that are trying to respect their commitments, but efforts are required by all Member States, and I will continue to insist on that with the respective Member Sates.
The London Summit of 2 April 2009 will go down in the history of the G20 as one where development issues were handled in their own right and in the presence of developing countries' representatives.
I do not quite understand why this resolution that has been introduced by the Committee on Development and refers to the G20 meeting of Pittsburgh is not being voted on before the G20 meeting.
There will probably be one or another technical explanation for that but I think it gives the wrong signal from this newly elected Parliament that we are going to debate such a resolution after the G20 meeting in Pittsburgh, which is due to happen, if I remember correctly, from 22 to 24 September, before our next meeting in Strasbourg in October.
This is not within my discretion but I must say that, together with Members who have advocated this, I very much deplore that we have not been able to vote upon this resolution during this part-session.
