An EU Strategy for Central Asia (debate) (DE) The next item is the report by Cem Özdemir, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on an EU Strategy for Central Asia.
Let me mention just a few of them: Dag Sourander, Paolo Bergamaschi, Rosemary Opacic, Andrew Woodcock, Margaret François and my colleague Rana Aydın.
The European Union's dependence on external energy sources and its need for a diversified energy policy in order to guarantee security of energy supplies is a common interest of both the EU and the Central Asian republics.
The agreements with Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic and Uzbekistan have already entered into force, while the agreement with Tajikistan has not yet been ratified by all Member States.
My colleague Louis Michel is in the process of looking into the ECHO proposal to allocate EUR 750 000 for a range of urgent aid measures, and I hope that proposal will be approved in the near future.
Draftsman for the Development Committee. - (ES) Madam President, as the rapporteur has said, this region requires a consistent strategy from Europe.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SL) I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Özdemir, on his fine work and I would like to thank him for his cooperation on this report, which expresses the clear political will of the European Union for greater strategic cooperation between the European Union and the countries of central Asia, whose democratic and economic progress is important for global stability.
As the countries in question are rich in resources there is a danger that interests may come to dominate over values in our relations.
As a result, cooperation is not easy but we must take advantage of the interest which Central Asian countries have in the European Union.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Madam President, Commissioner, first of all I wish to thank the rapporteur, Cem Özdemir, for producing a successful report.
The EU also needs to support and encourage the countries of Central Asia to take more effective measures in the area of environmental protection and in their quest for sustainable water use and for their use of other natural resources.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, I too would like to thank Mr Özdemir for his excellent report.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for devoting so much time and effort to the preparation of this report.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, Mr Özdemir rightly emphasises in his report that Central Asia is of major strategic significance to the Union.
So I would again ask you to be good enough to consider the amendments I have put down, namely numbers 12 and 13.
I do not agree with Mr Tannock that it should be included in the ENP, but we ought to look at ways of improving our relationship with Kazakhstan.
Firstly, the EU should provide assistance in these countries in a perspective of human rights, democracy and education.
Further strengthening cooperation between Central Asia and the Black Sea region in the fields of energy and transportation is essential for the accomplishment of the EU's goals. (SV) Madam President, Commissioner, the EU strategy for Central Asia is a big step forward.
Nevertheless, these objectives should integrate into a global strategy for Central Asia, focused on sustained stability and development.
For these reasons, besides the energy policy, it is very important to promote reform in all the five republics, while human rights and good governance, education and lifelong training should represent its essential elements. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first I want to congratulate Mr Özdemir on his very successful report.
Europe cannot on any account support the use of this sort of technology, either within Europe or outside of Europe.
Thank you very much. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too want to begin by thanking the rapporteur Mr Özdemir and all the shadow rapporteurs who worked on this report.
With this strategy for Central Asia and this first broad debate in the European Parliament, we are actively taking the appropriate steps to promote dialogue and to meet all the challenges that still await us and which the Commissioner addressed.
The death penalty was abolished on 1 January.
May I say here that I will support the amendments tabled by the UEN Group because I agree with them, because I regard them as a step towards dialogue and because we must seek dialogue and partnership. (PL) Madam President, the European Union should engage more actively in events in Central Asia and in support for economic and social development in the region.
So I know how much we have to do and I am glad that finally the European Union has done much more than in the past, together, as I said, with the German Presidency.
On the other hand, there is the question of energy - both the Nabucco pipeline and the Odessa-Brody-Gdańsk pipeline have been mentioned - and, in general, energy security.
Just a few days ago, we had the first ever regional conference of the Black Sea Synergy, which was a very first step in working on these issues in a regional dimension.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, first I want to thank all the colleagues who took part in this debate and to give thanks also for the input of the committees asked for their opinion and, of course, for the Chair of the Delegation, Mrs Juknevičienė.
Mrs Jeggle has already referred to the amendment on the abolition of the death penalty in Uzbekistan, which we very much welcome.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 20 February 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) As part of the work of the Delegation for Relations with Central Asia, of which I am a member, I have had the opportunity to visit the countries of the area covered by the report.
