Public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Cappato, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents (implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001).
This is an important and cherished subject, particularly in times of the revision of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 and also bearing in mind the changes that the Treaty of Lisbon - if it enters into force - will bring about on these important issues.
Quite naturally, some of the recommendations made in the report go well beyond the application of Regulation 1049/2001 in 2006 and some are not directly related to the activities of the Commission, as we have just heard.
The recommendation to merge Regulation 1049/2001 and Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 on the opening of the historical archives is quite complex for a particular reason, because Article 255 of the EC Treaty and Regulation 1049/2001 do not apply to all institutions and bodies.
On the Ombudsman's critical remark regarding the Commission's public registers, I would like to assure you that we take this remark very seriously.
As you know, we have a public register of documents that has been up and running since June 2002 and since then the Commission has also put in place a dedicated register for comitology procedures and a register on expert groups.
We always take into account the need to increase the coverage of the public register, and I hope you also know my personal commitment to this.
I would divide into four distinct groups the amendments that you have proposed - amendments that you have proposed to yourself, I would stress - in a report that received the support of all groups initially.
Some of your other assertions, Mr Cappato, are incorrect.
This is a bold exaggeration, Mr Cappato.
If we introduce more mechanisms, more bureaucracy and more controls, we will be going against what we want to achieve: transparency, which is closely linked to simplicity.
I therefore understand that it is wonderful in terms of public opinion and it looks good to defend transparency, but you must realise that transparency means ensuring that things are seen as they really are and that if we contribute to distorting how things are seen, Mr Cappato, we are not contributing to transparency.
Good luck, Marco.
I furthermore assume that Parliament will vote in favour of a real principle of public access in the forthcoming vote on Mr Cashman's report concerning the Regulation on public access.
The EU does not have a proud tradition of transparency.
It is obvious however that the 2001 European legislation governing this right of access needs to be brought up to date.
It is important that citizens should be able to monitor proceedings that are of interest to them and access all documents from one location.
When we speak of accountability and transparency, we must start with ourselves and that means all of the EU institutions.
Commissioner, I entered this Parliament in 1999 with a great deal of enthusiasm that was not inferior to the enthusiasm that you continue to display.
I support the principle that all democratic institutions have a duty to ensure that their activities, documents and decisions are made public.
Access to documents is a fundamental element in the loyal cooperation that is necessary between the European institutions.
However, we need to consider whether the full transcripts of political group discussions should be published. (SV) Mr President, transparency has indeed undergone a dramatic change within the EU - and I am sure that the Commissioner would very much agree - since the advent of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 and the websites.
I would also like to emphasise that I think that the Commission and the Commissioner have made extremely good and constructive contributions to this issue in recent years.
In my opinion, it was precisely this dismissive attitude towards the citizens of the European Union which resulted in the institutional reforms turning into a fiasco and the failure to ratify the Lisbon Treaty in France, the Netherlands and Ireland.
We will all have a very crucial year, because on the 7 June the citizens of Europe will vote in elections.
I think that the report has also shown all the linkages and the interlinkages between all these issues and we have to look at it from a political point of view.
Mrs Cederschiöld, I am not asking for more paperwork due to the need to disclose and publicise everything, but for a system that is already set up to ensure that we not only have access to a document when we ask for it, but that we also have access to information at the moment it is produced, while naturally respecting confidentiality regarding political groups and political group meetings.
This is also addressed to Mrs Doyle, and to Mr Herrero, who has left.
