Consolidating stability and prosperity in the Western Balkans - Situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the Western Balkans, and specifically the report by Mrs Ibrisagic, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on consolidating stability and prosperity in the Western Balkans and the statements by the Council and the Commission on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
rapporteur. - (SV) Madam President, it is almost 15 years since the end of the war in Bosnia and almost exactly ten years since NATO's bombing campaign forced Serbian forces to leave Kosovo.
The fact that neither Bosnia, Kosovo nor any of the other countries in the Western Balkans has relapsed into war since then is entirely down to the EU and NATO.
However, even though the weapons have fallen silent, the legacy of the war lives on in politics and society in the region.
The first is that there is a fundamental difference between the countries currently involved in the enlargement process and those which acceded in 2004 or 2007.
The second matter I would like to highlight is that the accession process is, as I have mentioned, very stringent and demanding - and so it should be.
I read with great interest the report of Anna Ibrisagic on future stability and prosperity in the Balkans and the draft resolution on Bosnia Herzegovina drawn up by Doris Pack.
The Council agrees with much that is said in the report and we share many of the opinions and concerns expressed in connection with the situation in Bosnia Herzegovina.
I would like to focus my introductory comments directly on Bosnia Herzegovina because stability there is vital for the future of the Western Balkans as a unit, and also because the current situation continues to cause concern.
The Council has been active both in formulating and implementing a strategy supporting the security and integrity of Bosnia Herzegovina, and in backing the reforms needed for ensuring a peaceful and prosperous future.
The passage of time has not yet resolved these conflicts and neither has it healed wounds between the three nations that make up Bosnia Herzegovina.
It is nevertheless surprising that the nationalist rhetoric and opinions go together with the common interest of all Balkan communities and their political representatives in a European future for Bosnia Herzegovina.
Although local political leaders talk a lot about Bosnia Herzegovina's future in the EU, it is difficult to see any real commitment to this agenda from their actions.
The conflict between interest in a more European orientation and nationalism creates a real risk that while the rest of the Western Balkan region moves forward, Bosnia Herzegovina will be left behind, bound up in its internal conflicts.
The Commission and secretariat of the Council are developing their contacts with partners in the country in an effort to take the political process forwards and to help Bosnia Herzegovina keep in step with the rest of the region.
I would like to express my gratitude to the many MEPs here today who have supported all of the actions promoting stability and political maturity in Bosnia Herzegovina.
The EU continues to promote a European future for the whole region, including Bosnia Herzegovina.
However, fulfilling the criteria for EU accession demands considerable efforts.
Bosnia Herzegovina must carry out significant changes to its internal structures and decision-making processes.
This is essential, because the EU can deal with Bosnia Herzegovina only as a whole, and not with its individual parts.
However, even in these cases, progress was always achieved and agreements were signed at the last minute and under considerable pressure from the international community.
Such a development would lead to a significant advance as far as the presence of the international community in Bosnia Herzegovina is concerned.
For this reason I would like to urge society as a whole in Bosnia Herzegovina to become part of the reform effort.
The role of the media in particular should be more constructive.
It is supremely important for the political leadership in Bosnia Herzegovina to cooperate even more closely in order to overcome historical differences and to lead their country towards closer integration with Europe.
The EU will always be willing to help in this effort which is essential not only for Bosnia Herzegovina itself but also for the broader stability and security of the region.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am glad that the Western Balkans are back on the European Parliament's agenda this week.
Stability in Kosovo was maintained throughout last year's important developments.
There have been calls for consolidation of the European Union.
This is exactly what we have been doing for the past years since the renewed consensus on enlargement which was adopted by the European Council and endorsed by the European Parliament in December 2006.
It still helps today to consolidate stability and peace in a region that is, effectively, our own front yard - not back yard, but front yard.
While the European Union pursues its own institutional reform, we need to keep on working in parallel on a carefully managed and gradual accession process in the Western Balkans that strengthens both the institutions and civil society there.
This is why the Commission proposed, in November 2008, an indicative road map to reach the final stage of accession negotiations by the end of 2009, provided Croatia fulfils the conditions.
The aim is to find a solution to the border issue and allow for the continuation of Croatia's EU accession negotiations.
The country has responded positively to our message, thus confirming its willingness to move forward in its accession process.
This needs to change if Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to continue its progress towards the European Union and avoid falling behind its neighbours.
The Serbian Government remains committed to advancing on its European agenda, and there have been a number of positive developments recently.
For instance, we are looking at our IPA programme, for which we are considering converting part of the 2009 national envelope into direct budgetary support, also with the support of the international financial institutions.
We appreciate Parliament's sustained support for the EU's efforts in Kosovo, which remains a European priority and central to regional stability.
The European Council has repeatedly confirmed that Kosovo shares a European perspective with the rest of the Western Balkans.
Dear friends, I count on your support on this essential visa issue as well as, more broadly, on the European perspective of the Western Balkans.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on International Trade. - (NL) In its opinion in Mrs Ibrisagic's praiseworthy report, the Committee on International Trade underscores the importance of a tangible prospect of EU membership for the political and economic development of the Western Balkan states.
The prime example of this is the unimpeded rise of Delta Holding in Serbia, with its influential director Miroslav Mišković as the 'octopus' at its head.
The Commissioner spoke of an engine of development.
I would like to mention three important points.
Constitutional reform must be tackled on the basis of a broad political and social consensus.
Only the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina can accede to the European Union.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first I should like to thank both rapporteurs on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
I should like to pick up on what Commissioner Rehn said, because it seems to me that it was the most important message in today's debate; namely, that the process of the integration, the rapprochement of the countries of southeast Europe should not be interrupted, not only in the interests of these countries, but also in our own interest.
Nothing that Mrs Pack called for and rightly demanded will come about if people there have the feeling that, come what may, they are not welcome in this European Union and their accession will be dragged out anyway.
That will then open the path to the European Union and this path must depend on the performance of these countries and not on our willingness.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DA) Mr President, the main thrust of Mrs Ibrisagic's resolution on the Western Balkans is perfectly clear.
In fact, in my opinion, EU membership is the glue which binds the region together in peace and stability.
The decision by many EU countries and the US to recognise Kosovo as an independent country has also created new dividing lines in a region that has suffered so grievously from division in the past.
Patience in all matters is a virtue, not least in foreign policy. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, even in a time of economic crisis the EU must not forget the commitment it made to the countries of the Western Balkans in terms of future EU expansion.
I would like to end by calling on the countries of Western Balkans, the Council and the Commission to increase their efforts to abolish the visa regime.
Visa-free contacts and the free movement of persons would be a great help to the Western Balkan countries on their path to EU membership. (NL) I will only go into the subject of Bosnia and the resolution by Mrs Pack that we will be very pleased to support tomorrow.
Talking about Bosnia is always frustrating, and I am pleased that the Commissioner has also been able to mention a few positive points with regard to developments in Bosnia.
If reforms are made there and if people get down to working on a respectable legal system and on combating bureaucracy, then a European future is realistic, but if that does not happen, then it is not.
The Balkans' natural vocation is to join the European Union.
We have to agree - and this appears in the report - a process for settling bilateral problems, but without for all that blocking the accession process.
The first is the disunity of the European Union.
Thirdly, and this is why we should act now, not only to maintain the perspective, but also to make it realisable: Greece must lift the blockade in NATO to Macedonia's membership and we must unite in recognising the independence of Kosovo, otherwise our EULEX mission will suffer. (NL) Bosnia and Herzegovina is in actual fact a pocket-sized Yugoslavia, a federation in which different peoples must choose between living together peacefully or battling out internal conflicts over the territory.
Since Yugoslavia fell apart in 1992, attempts have been made to turn Bosnia and Herzegovina into a unitary state, but to no avail.
Therefore I am not voting in favour of the proposed resolution on this country, which can only lead to the continuation of the protectorate and thus of stagnation.
We must take that into account. (BG) Mr President, it is a pleasure for me to be participating in the discussion of this document, which highlights that the best basis for the future of all the countries in the region is their full integration as Member States of the European Union.
Promoting cooperation at regional level should also be one of the European Union's fundamental policies.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for a very useful debate.
I am also delighted that the EU Member States have given their general backing to the idea of visa liberalisation with the West Balkan countries.
However, it is clear that without a solution to the bilateral dispute over the country's name its progress down the path to candidate status will remain minimal.
As far as Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, the country must move forward.
I would like to take this opportunity to call on the political leaders of Bosnia and Herzegovina to join forces actively with the aim of leading their country towards a better future.
The planned transfer from an Office of the High Representative to a strengthened Office of the Special Representative of the EU does not mean that either the international community or the EU is quitting Bosnia and Herzegovina.
As part of its strategy the EU is planning to create an office and a policy for peace and it will be ready to take over all coordination activities from the international community in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We are prepared to continue providing assistance in this unavoidably long process. 2009 is an important year and it could be decisive for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Secondly, the period after the next general elections in 2010 should be fully utilised for the promotion of the essential reform agenda, including constitutional reform, as Mrs Pack correctly pointed out.
At times it seems as if Bosnia and Herzegovina has an unfailing ability to create and actually renew political tensions, even though common sense dictates that we should be expecting improved developments to move in another direction and political reconciliation to find a place in the political future of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
It is very important that this proper way of thinking gains a firm foothold in Bosnia and Herzegovina's own political debate, so that its citizens can draw their own conclusions about what sort of policy they have the right to expect from democratically elected politicians.
Firstly, our aim is to move away from the Dayton era to the Brussels era, that is, from the era of the international community's High Representative to the European Union's reinforced presence in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Secondly, the country needs to reform its constitution, in order for it to be able to build a viable system of government.
Thirdly and lastly, visa waiver is a crucial part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's future in Europe, and I am sure that, thus equipped, the country will be able to enter the European mainstream, which will surely be in the interests of the country itself, its citizens, and the European Union too.
With my report, the European Parliament will add its voice to the chorus of those insisting that bilateral disputes must remain precisely that - bilateral - and not be confused with the accession process.
This is the message that I would like my report to send out to the 500 million Europeans who are soon to choose a new Parliament, to the governments of the Member States, to the Commission and to the people and politicians in the Western Balkans.
The vote will take place on Friday 24 April 2009.
However, it is a region whose prospects for joining the EU are clear and unambiguous.
Both my fellow Members and I wanted to ensure that this resolution confirms this fact in principle and in the details of the EU's interaction with the countries in the area.
We are concerned, as I highlighted in my amendments, about a number of issues: the visa regime, the process for informing citizens about the EU, economic cooperation with the states in the Western Balkans, minorities' rights, study programmes in the EU for young people from the region, as well as strengthening interparliamentary dialogue even before these states join the EU.
in writing. - (HU) The European Union's enlargement policy is the best instrument available for preserving stability and the prevailing peace in the Western Balkans region.
