Commission: budgetary framework and priorities for 2009 (debate) The next item is the report by Jutta Haug, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the 2009 budget, Section III - Commission: budgetary framework and priorities for 2009.
As of next year we will be establishing our budget according to the procedure set out in the Lisbon Treaty.
It is therefore important for us to emphasise that alongside the 2009 budgetary procedure we expect to make preparations together with the Council and the Commission to ensure that we conduct the budgetary procedure in accordance with the Lisbon Treaty.
Secondly, it is clear see that Heading 4 is chronically under-funded.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I wish to start by informing Ms Haug and the other Members of this House that the Commission has not only examined this resolution, but can also agree with a significant number of points, not least in respect of the principles of budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
The Commission also appreciates Parliament's detailed examination of the 2009 APS, which was the subject of an intensive debate last March.
In terms of policy development and programming implementation, 2009 is the third year of the current programming period and should be a year of consolidation.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Thank you for giving me the floor, Mr President.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of the UEN Group, I wish to draw your attention to the following issues in the debate on budgetary priorities for 2009.
First, if the Lisbon Treaty is ratified by all the Member States, in 2009 powers will be transferred from the Member States to the EU, giving the European Union new areas of responsibility.
Second, the year 2009 - according to expert forecasts - will in all probability be the fifth successive year in which there has been a steady increase in the prices of foodstuffs.
The Union's budget for 2009 should allow for more support both for growth of agricultural production in Europe, and for the export of agricultural produce by the Union.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, the rapporteur, Mrs Haug, shows immense technical skill and professionalism in her work.
Finally, as 2009 will be a year of elections, I appeal to the Commission.
It is time for the citizens of Europe to be able to understand, easily the budget, which is about them. (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the Haug report, I believe, represents a first essential step towards the politicisation of the budget procedure.
Moreover, with regard to the guidelines adopted by the Commission and the Council, it is clear that there will be a repeat of what happened in 2007 and 2008, namely, that spending will once again fall short of the limits laid down in the multi-annual financial framework, already insufficient to meet the needs of real social cohesion in the European Union.
Firstly, with the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty the EU budget procedure has changed significantly and we need to do the necessary preparatory work to ensure clarity and successful work on the European Union's budget for 2010.
For example, the restriction currently in force for the Structural Funds, that only 3% of resources from the relevant operational programme may be channelled towards energy efficiency measures, prohibits new Member States from reviewing their priorities for obtaining Structural Funds in accordance with the new priorities on Europe's energy strategy and climate change.
My second point is this: in its December resolution on the 2007 budget, Parliament called for a progress report on staff screening, wanting it by 30 April 2008.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like once again to thank Ms Haug for the report and also all the speakers for their comments: not only those related directly to the 2009 budget, but also those comments that went beyond 2009, which are very useful in the context of our reflection on the policy agenda and on the future reform of the budget.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I thank all the speakers in this debate.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would just like to say very clearly that I cannot imagine that these three institutions would not work together.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 22 April 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) The Lisbon Treaty, which is due to come into force on 1 January next, will bring an unprecedented strengthening of Parliament's prerogatives.
in writing. - We ought to prepare for the changes set to take place in 2009 with the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty and the European elections as they will have a major impact on the budget.
in writing. - (RO) I would like to emphasize certain aspects related to the article reaffirming the importance of the principle of solidarity in this report.
