Community system against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (debate) The next item is the report by Marie-Hélène Aubert, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing - C6-0454/2007 -.
The Commission has also defined a working programme, in close cooperation with the Development DG and EuropeAid, to support developing countries, in order to assist them with a smooth and successful implementation of the regulation, in particular with regard to the catch certification scheme.
The Commission can agree with nearly all amendments proposed, which are either covered by the proposal or which are incorporated in the Presidency compromise text.
However, the globalisation of trade, the free movement of capital, and advances in transport and communication have all led to a significant increase in illegal fishing over recent years.
This is why the European Commission's ambitious proposal announced last October was particularly well received by the Committee on Fisheries, which had already adopted, by an overwhelming majority, an own-initiative report on the EU's February 2007 action plan to combat IUU fishing.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is taking place during the most serious crisis in the Community fisheries sector that we have ever known.
Fish imports and the entry of illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing into the European Union are among those reasons.
However, one can never repeat enough that illegal fishing is a crime against nature and against the economy, one that unfortunately often goes unpunished and against which we have to act with determination and courage.
I therefore would like to thank Commissioner Borg and the Commission for the timely way in which they reacted to the concerns voiced by Parliament in February 2007, putting forward a proposal for a regulation that exceeded all expectations and that rightly deserves our applause.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, the ALDE Group wishes to express its full support for Mrs Aubert's excellent report.
That is why it is especially good to see Amendments 5, 6 and 54, which seek to do more to minimise any negative impacts on developing countries.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I should like to thank my group colleague, Marie-Hélène Aubert for the amount of work she has put in successfully to this report.
The certification process has a key role to play in combating illegal fishing.
There is no business in any sector that can survive this type of economic context, but nevertheless it is a proven fact that, when there has been the political will to monitor imports closely, as has occurred in the past - and I can bear witness to this - the prices paid to Community producers have immediately recovered.
The EU should move forward immediately, acting not only as a union of regulations that are bureaucratic, complex and often not even implemented by its Member States, but should take a global initiative without being afraid of the major interests at stake or succumbing to international or other pressures.
The EU's fisheries are in crisis, compounded by a 30% increase in marine fuel prices in recent months.
The fishermen are on our streets in Brussels and in our Member States.
The unanimous vote in favour of the Aubert report in committee is an important signal of the will to put the proposed measures into practice. (BG) Mme President, Members of the European Parliament, This report touches upon very important issues related to the protection of seas and the measures to combat illegal fishing.
The establishment of a control system geared to the needs of the fishing sector is a substantial step forward.
As others have said, the legal fishing sector is under severe threat and the impact of this illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is just part of the problem.
Perhaps part of the problem we have with the illegal side of the fishing is over-regulation on the legal sector - but perhaps that is a debate for another issue.
Yes, we need a global agreement on this, but we need to start at home and whatever we do, rather than just layer on bureaucracy, which we are very often accused of in this place, we need to make sure that the regulations we put in place are effective and tackle the problem at source, so that we do not destroy both the economics and the environment. (PT) Madam President, we do indeed have here an excellent report - congratulations to our rapporteur.
The proposal, as has already been said by the Commission, is a good proposal, yet I should like to emphasise the message we were given by the draftsmen of the opinion of the Committee on International Trade, Daniel Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, namely that this is exactly the kind of instrument that can effectively respond to a crisis such as the one we are experiencing in the fisheries sector today.
And the sanctions scheme we proposed must be such that these can serve as effective punitive measures and, therefore, be dissuasive by their very nature.
As regards the fuel crisis, we already have the possibility of medium- to long-term measures that are in place, and this would be in combination with the restructuring of the sector.
Therefore, unless we tackle the problem of over-capacity, we will have a recurring problem for as long as fuel prices remain as they are, or - worse still - if they continue rising, as the indications suggest.
This is what we have done with France, where agreement was reached between the Commission and France on a package of measures which are intended to help the French fisheries sector to restructure.
Where we have had information with regard to other subsidies which are not covered either by de minimis or under restructuring programmes, we are investigating them.
I also believe that, both in terms of the fight against illegal fishing and other areas that have been covered, such as waste or resource management and quotas, we also need to come up with a much more rewarding strategy, one that is forward-looking and a step in the right direction, which does not currently seem to me to be the case.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 5 June 2008.
I also welcome the ban on the importation of IUU fish and the publication of a list of vessels involved in IUU fishing.
