Informal summit in Lahti and EU-Russia relations following the murder of journalist Anna Politkovskaya (debate) We shall proceed to the next item on the agenda.
This is the Council and Commission statements on the Preparation for the Informal Meeting of Heads of State or Government in Lahti and also, in accordance with the House's decision, relations between the European Union and Russia following the murder of Anna Politkovskaya.
We decided to hold the Lahti Summit because we want to give the Heads of State or Government of the Member States of the Union the opportunity for an open and informal debate on two themes which are important for the Union's future and for economic success: innovation and external energy relations.
In this way we will be able to improve conditions for economic growth and employment in the Union.
The way in which a European job market of 200 million employees will function and adapt to change is of crucial importance for Europe's future.
The immense challenges which the Union faces in issues of energy - securing its supply, climate change, continual price rises, and recent crises - have prompted the development of a common energy policy for the EU.
Before the Finnish presidential term started, the evolution of a common energy policy was discussed at two meetings of the European Council held at the beginning of the year.
During the Finnish Presidency, we will focus in particular on external energy relations, and these talks will prepare the ground for a large-scale energy debate, to be held next spring, to lead to the adoption of an energy policy action plan.
In external energy relations, the Member States need to reach a common understanding and establish a view concerning what sort of strategy should be adopted to make progress in relations with countries outside the EU, and what sort of common outward-looking goals the EU should have.
At the Lahti energy talks we will be exchanging views on how external energy relations might be developed in the immediate future.
The first is the principles on which EU-Russian energy relations should be based, and how they should be implemented.
In all strategic partnerships, including the one with Russia, it is important to find something which is in the interests of both parties in order to develop the partnership.
The EU is dependent on imports of energy from Russia, and Russia needs long-term contracts for energy exports at market prices, as well as Western investment in the basic production of energy.
The European Union needs enough information to practise a more coherent energy policy.
The Union should establish a system which will help bolster cooperation between the Member States and the institutions, and enhance solidarity in issues connected with energy.
The other main topic of the Summit of Heads of State or Government is the development of a policy on innovation.
Moreover, the Union must be able to introduce new technology as efficiently as they do in the countries that are our competitors.
If we stick with the way we do things now, the innovation gulf between us and our major trading partners will only grow.
It is impossible to stay ahead unless there is continued investment in research and product development.
In its position on the Lisbon Strategy, the European Parliament has also highlighted the importance of a policy on innovation.
If we can develop the patents system further, companies will be guaranteed considerable savings on the costs of patents, which can only encourage innovation and research in Europe.
The priority will be the promotion of innovation.
The Presidency believes that the European Institute of Technology will allow Europe to exploit existing opportunities in companies and the scientific community more effectively.
Furthermore, cooperation between the private and public sector needs to be stepped up in order to promote competitiveness.
Europe has seen the creation of the so-called Technology Platforms, company-based strategic research initiatives, which are excellent examples of partnership between the public and private sectors.
The creation of pan-European technical norms for mobile phones in practice made it possible for the world's leading player in this sector to come from Europe.
At the same time, it will strengthen our competitive status and be a response to rapid technological development, so that the technical development solutions realised in Europe can genuinely compete with development work done elsewhere in the world.
At the Lahti Summit we will be discussing illegal immigration, which has become a particular problem in the Mediterranean and the southern parts of the Union.
The intention too is that the work of the Justice and Home Affairs Councils should serve as a basis for decisions for the European Council in December which could help the European Union to respond effectively to the problem of illegal immigration.
As I said at the beginning, following the informal summit of EU Heads of State or Government, the participants will dine in Lahti with the Russian President, Vladimir Putin.
The international policy agenda this autumn includes matters where cooperation between us is very important, such as the Middle East, Iran and Kosovo.
As I have already said, the strategic partnership is a framework within which all the important issues will be discussed.
I will also make a few remarks about relations between the European Union and Russia.
These are all issues in respect of which the challenges we face require not just a national response, but a European response; challenges which show why, more than ever, a strong European Union is necessary, and why we need the Union to equip Europeans for globalisation.
Finland is a prime example of how innovation can boost economic growth.
It is indicative that most of the recent Nobel Prize winners come from or work in the United States.
The truth is that Europe is falling behind in terms of innovation and research.
The status quo is not an option: we need to do more in this matter.
We urgently need a strategic approach which focuses on each link in the innovation chain, from the birth of new ideas and knowledge right through to their exploitation and marketing in the economic sphere.
The communication which the Commission will present at the informal summit in Lahti sets out such an approach.
We need financing, we need the right intellectual property framework to bring the right rewards and we need to tackle obstacles to innovation sector by sector.
Above all, we need to start with a strong political message of commitment: innovation deserves encouragement, and we need a European approach for it.
The United States is much more committed to a real global approach.
There are great institutions supporting innovation throughout the United States, not just in one or two states.
We are proposing a network system to lend a real European dimension and a real European mission to those institutions.
One of the fields in which I think we as European leaders can give a mission to a European institute of technology is that of energy and climate change.
It is absurd in the 21st century to go on with 25 or 27 energy policies.
In our Green Paper of March 2006, the Commission defined clear objectives for a European energy policy, long-term sustainability, security of energy supply and economic competitiveness.
The Member States have endorsed our approach, and the reaction from stakeholders to our Green Paper has been overwhelmingly positive.
We clearly need an effective internal market in energy.
We also need to join the different areas of expertise which exist around Europe to create a more effective network to deal with external energy shocks.
Finally, energy efficiency is another crucial element of this strategy.
Naturally, with 25% of the oil and gas consumed in the European Union coming from Russia, energy cooperation with Russia is crucial.
We see three long-term objectives in our relations with Russia: we want to see a functioning democracy and market economy in which Russia lives up to the international commitments it has undertaken; we want to see a broad and strategic EU-Russia relationship based on interdependence - Russia needs the European Union and the European Union also needs Russia - and we want to enhance our cooperation with Russia on international issues.
I also take this opportunity to express my deepest sympathy with the family of Anna Politkovskaya, who was so brutally murdered last week.
The massive arrival of illegal immigrants at the frontiers of the European Union's southern Member States is a European problem that requires a European solution.
In November 2006, the Commission presented a communication with a series of practical proposals for the European Union to respond to this challenge.
On that basis, the European Council adopted a global approach to migration, outlining in detail how to respond in its internal and external policies.
It is absurd to have 25 or 27 migration policies in an area in which people can move around freely, because decisions taken by one country have a direct effect on the other countries.
We also need to work much more intensively with the countries of origin and transit.
The implementation of the action plan agreed in Rabat in July is a key priority.
The Commission will work hard to ensure proper implementation in close partnership with the countries concerned.
The solution to this problem will come only with our support for sustainable development in Africa.
This means using the bridging clause in Article 67 of the Treaty.
To conclude, the informal European Council meeting in Lahti provides a good opportunity to take stock of the current European Union actions in the fields I have outlined and in several other fields as well.
We are looking for a renewed commitment from the Heads of State and Government to deliver solutions to the real and pressing problems of the citizens of the European Union, and to deliver a Europe of results so that we can have more confidence to solve some of the very important problems in our Union.
Amidst the terrible conditions experienced by the people there, I saw something that I resolved to tell my friends back in Brussels: in the NGOs and other humanitarian organisations, there are so many young Europeans, so far from their homes, putting their lives at risk every day to help Africans.
It is vital that the Russian authorities get right to the bottom of this tragedy as soon as possible, and we expect the Council to send out the message that it will stand firm in the face of this fresh blow to a profession that pays a heavy cost each year for carrying out its work.
Allow me to pay tribute, through Anna Politkovskaya, to all of the journalists who risk their lives throughout the world in order to defend freedom of expression, to which we are so attached.
The Informal Meeting to be held in Lahti on 20 October will provide another opportunity to raise some recurring issues, such as competitiveness, innovation, immigration and energy policy.
I expect the European Commission to take these principles as its starting point when it presents its 2007 legislative programme and the Council to follow that trend.
As so often happens when summits are in the offing, we have high hopes of this one.
The President of the Commission is right to say that investment in innovation is indispensable, not only here, but in all the Member States, and particularly in researching and developing energy-efficient technology.
One of the crucial long-term decisions we will have to take over the coming years has to do with the question of whether achieving greater energy efficiency will enable us to cope with the exponential growth in demand for energy around the world.
Europe is the continent that must lead, and give good example, in this area, and that is why you are quite right to say that our policy on innovation must give priority to innovation in energy.
I do not want to go over again what others have rightly pointed out, namely that sustainable development in what we call the Third World addresses the causes of the immigration problem, but the external borders in southern and eastern Europe are external borders in which we all share; those who manage to enter our territory are free to move anywhere within the Schengen area.
Let me add something to what has been said about our policy on Russia.
It is obvious that discussions such as that we are having today, in relation to the case of Anna Politkovskaya, will always be emotional affairs.
Among her criticisms of the state of freedom and democracy in Russia, she wrote, in a book called Putin's Russia: Life in a failing democracy, 'Yes, stability has come to Russia.
They need our market for oil and gas.
In a week in which Al Gore has promoted his film on the 'inconvenient truth' of climate change, our energy policy must in any case reflect an urgent need for a change of direction.
In the past 12 months, the urgency for action in all those areas has increased.
However, Madam President-in-Office, we fear you are being eclipsed already by the forthcoming German Presidency.
Issues are being postponed; foreign leaders are courting Mrs Merkel.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Anna Politkovskaya, visited this House on two occasions, at the invitation of our group, to report to us on the situation in Chechnya and the state of play as regards freedom of speech in Russia.
That is going on day in and day out. (Applause) Mr Schulz is right; we do indeed need Russia, but we have to be aware of the fact that the Russia with which we have to deal is a Russia that does not shrink back from taking people out of circulation, and I can predict how its story is going to turn out, for it has already been written down in a book that is about to come out, entitled 'The Day of the Opritschnik' by Vladimir Sorokin, and I urge you to read it.
I call on the Finnish government to tell these EU new liberals that public services are the secret of Finland's excellent competitiveness.
The EU will not be the world's most competitive knowledge-based economy by 2010.
An economy built on dreams reminds one of Mr Khrushchev, who 50 years ago in the UN promised that the Soviet Union would surpass the standard of living in the United States of America within 10 years.
Only when real engagement and dialogue takes place with Russia can we guarantee a relationship of equality between the EU and Russia, despite our dependence on Russia for energy, despite Russia's dependence on us for markets, and despite the interaction that there is in geopolitical terms between eastern Europe and Russia.
I think that what we really have to do is show courage now in laying down clear standards and guidelines of what we expect from our partners with regard to their relationships.
I am a great supporter of President Barroso's plan with regard to the necessity for Europe to take the lead and take the leap from the 20th century into the 22nd century with regard to what we need to do for research and development and investment in technology.
Finally, Madam President - if I may be allowed the same latitude as the other group chairmen were allowed - when we speak about energy and common energy policy and energy needs, one of the biggest opportunities that we are denying ourselves is the renewable energy that we can create and grow on our land.
Finland currently has 7.8% of the votes necessary for achieving a blocking minority in the Council of Ministers, so the other countries are obliged to listen to Finland.
That is precisely why we have a valuable culture of consensus in the Council of Ministers.
That would cause the Finnish portion of a blocking minority to fall from 7.8% to 3.3%, so there would no longer be any need to listen to Finland and other small EU countries.
Nokia would no doubt get by, but the many small and medium-sized companies and local authorities would miss having contact through the Finnish cabinet when there was no longer a Finnish Commissioner at the table.
Stick to one Commissioner for each Member State and to the culture of consensus in the Council of Ministers instead of adopting the rejected draft Constitutional Treaty. (NL) Madam President, as has already been said, the European Heads of State or Government will, when they meet in Lahti on 20 October, also be broaching the subject of immigration.
That is why I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Swiss on the sensible choice they have made in all their cantons to tighten up legal conditions for immigration and asylum, because, paradoxically, in these matters, firm, humane and fair policy is the best way.
The PPE-DE Group also calls on the Commission and the EU Member States to take a principled stand in insisting on the restoration of the freedom of the press and respect for independent journalists as among the main prerequisites for renewing the PCA agreement next year.
Only when the EU sends a clear signal that we value the life of this courageous woman not less than oil and gas will things start to change in Russia. (Applause) The only way truly to honour Anna Politkovskaya's passionate commitment to truth, justice and human dignity is to launch a common effort to make real her dream of a democratic Russia where citizens will not need to pay with their lives for telling the truth. (DE) Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, there is no doubt about it: where our relations with Russia are concerned, we are in a very tricky position.
These things may perhaps harm us as well by interfering with our relations with Russia, but it is Russia itself that is most harmed, in that it is hindered from developing in a positive and democratic way.
That is for the people who live there to decide for themselves, and they must decide that freely rather than under duress or in response to military pressure - perhaps even exerted by Russia, and so we will have to speak in quite frank terms to Russia about this.
The fact is that, while we are demanding a common energy policy, nothing has yet been said about what it should be like, and, when we start doing something about improving energy efficiency, developing alternative forms of energy and taking the appropriate action in transport and housing, there will be many who will get up and say, 'no, that was not what we meant'.
It is also in Russia's own interests that it should be aware of the fact that it needs our technology, our know-how and our money, and that it should therefore work at building up a relationship of equality where energy policy is concerned.
In this matter more than any other, the EU must speak up with a single voice and from a decisive negotiating standpoint. (FI) Madam President, my city of birth, Lahti, may be the stage for an important event when it hosts the EU summit.
The Commission's claim that these reactors could be improved in economic terms has proven wrong.
The Union's level of investment in research and development is totally inadequate.
As rapporteur, my own opinion is: let there be innovation and the transfer of innovation into practical realisation; then our standard of living will improve.
This way, we will create energy security for both parties and, obviously, especially for ourselves. (FI) Ladies and gentlemen, Russia's energy resources and our desire to secure deliveries of oil and gas must not be allowed to blur our vision when it comes to the worsening state of democracy and civil rights in Russia.
in writing. - (SV) Madam President, next week's Lahti Summit will deal with the issue of a common energy policy.
Yet no one in a position of power in the EU is able to decide which types of energy we should choose in order to secure a sustainable energy supply for the future.
We know that by 2020 our environment will have warmed up by another 0.8oC.
Last winter we witnessed a crisis in Ukraine - who will witness another crisis this evening when they play Scotland at football! - and we saw the first interruption in our gas supplies for 40 years.
We get 22% of our gas from Russia, and this is a dangerous position for the EU to be in because, following that crisis last year, we discovered that some of the newer Member States only had 24 hours of reserve supplies.
We have to centralise and have a coherent energy policy run from the centre. (Applause) (FR) Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the most recent summits in Tampere and Luxembourg again showed the limits of European immigration policy and the limits of solidarity amongst European governments.
Trafficking in human beings can only be combated effectively if we take action against undeclared employment and the exploitation of migrants in our own countries.
We also have to admit that we have been paying for Africa for a long time, we have to admit that our codevelopment policies have not been fair, and we have to allow for massive development of poor countries.
Finally, our Member States have to realise that we must work together and that we will not be able to really do anything by each keeping ourselves to ourselves.
He stood up and told us that we had to face the challenge of globalisation, and we could only do that if Europe became competitive, if we started to invest more money in research and development.
If you really want to improve competitiveness, then what you will do this weekend is look at the 91 000 pages of close-type legislation that make up the acquis communautaire and decide to get rid of a substantial chunk of it.
If you were serious about making Europe competitive, if you were serious about moving into the modern world, that is what you would do.
I wonder whether that is because they have got their own currency - they are able to manage their own fiscal and monetary policy.
So the real conclusion this weekend is that we should be doing far less at European level, because everything the EU touches turns to disaster. (PL) Madam President, the meeting between our leaders and President Putin will be an opportunity to raise the issue of secure energy supplies, and to express our extreme - and I repeat our extreme - concern at the state of Russian democracy and respect for human rights.
Too many times our politicians have buried their heads in the sand, and too many times they have accepted meaningless explanations from the Russian side, until finally the conscience of Russian journalism, Anna Politkovskaya, was brutally murdered by shots to the head, like Galina Starovoytova before her.
Mrs Starovoytova's death in 1998 marked the beginning of the retreat from democratic standards in that country, because she was a symbolic figurehead, the leader of the St Petersburg democrats.
For this reason, in view of their sacrifice, and before we feel the effects of Russia's retreat from democracy on our own heads, I appeal for respect for human rights and civil freedoms in Russia to be made a condition of further political dialogue with that country. (PT) Madam President, there are some very important issues on the Lahti agenda such as energy policy, illegal immigration, competitiveness and innovation.
It is inevitable, however, that the issue of freedom of the press should also be addressed.
Democracy, freedom and human rights are essential issues at a summit of this importance, due to be attended by President Putin at a time when the murder of the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya is uppermost in our minds.
The European Council must call on President Putin to bring the perpetrators of this heinous crime to justice.
Mr Barroso, some of the competences we have in the European Union - the internal market for energy policy, the trans-European networks, competition rules and trade policy - are the instruments that we must use with relation not only to Russia but also to other parts of the world.
Let us use them and let us go forward step by step. (PL) Mr President, the European Union must face up to the political, economic and cultural challenges of recent times.
Secondly, the European Union must give a unified response to the problems of mass illegal immigration of people from all over the world, which is having a considerable impact on some countries.
Finally, we have to achieve a real breakthrough in developing scientific research, new technologies, competitiveness and economic innovation within the Member States.
In Europe we are currently in need of courage, vision and a forward-looking strategy.
We need to deepen integration and achieve a truly common and unified policy in these three areas.
I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that President Putin was invited to the summit in Lahti, and at the efforts to forge a strategic partnership with Russia.
The first is that, if he has listened to us, he will have heard us telling him not to treat his talks with Vladimir Putin as just 'business as usual', not to reduce the summit to a meeting about energy policy, but instead, also to talk about all the things that have been mentioned today.
Turning to energy policy, the partnership with Russia is only a part of the energy policy that Europe needs.
One of the things I particularly want to appeal to you to promote in your summit - something with which to engage Europe's leaders - is to energise and use the power of public authorities.
They are spending billions of euros of public money on developing new services, but I do not think that many of them are thinking about how they use that money to generate innovation and to push forward the new products and services that European industry and companies are willing to provide.
I am not yet convinced, because I think many universities are already doing what you want to do - it is a lot of money.
Let us put innovation at the heart of what we do at the summit, and I hope that you will give it the importance that it deserves. (PL) Mr President, I agree wholeheartedly with the statements of my colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the situation of democracy in Russia, and I do not wish to repeat their arguments, to which I give my full support.
In energy we need a common policy, both within the European Union, to establish a common energy market, and outside it, for example joint European negotiations with the partners who supply our oil and gas.
We need to ensure that there is no repetition of the situation where one Member State's negotiations, for example, concerning supplies of oil or gas from Russia, place other Member States in an extremely unfavourable position.
On the issue of innovation, I would like to raise just three points.
In the first place, we need a responsible economic policy whereby innovation is adopted by industry, which we do not have on our continent.
The second point is the issue of a European patent: we need to have our own European patent.
Thirdly I believe there is a need for a European Institute of Technology which will serve innovation.
It represents one of the first serious attempts at drawing up an EU strategy for the positioning of Europe in the context of globalisation, and so I believe that it will be the most important item on the agenda at the informal meeting in Lahti.
Much as I rejoice in Finland's good example, I also have to point out that my own region, Baden-Württemberg, spends 3.6% of its gross domestic product per annum on research and development, which is a good deal more than either the USA or Japan do.
The European Parliament appeared to be unable to react immediately, with a joint document, to a terrible crime in Moscow, so as not to disturb the Russian president touring Europe.
This is just one more indication that the European Union does not have its own European policy in respect of Russia, and that we, in Europe, implement only a pro-Russian policy in this respect.
Such is the real partnership and the common space.
We should at least try to understand that Anna Politkovskaya, the last brave journalist, was murdered not only by Putin's Russia, but by conformist Europe as well. (Applause) (PL) Mr President, it is appalling that the road to civil freedom and respect for fundamental human rights needs to be paved with the killing of innocent people.
Russia has always produced great figures who have swum against the tide of dictatorship and risked their lives to expose the crimes and iniquities of their governments.
We only need to think of such names as Kravchenko, Bukovsky, Sakharov or Solzhenitsyn.
We must be uncompromising.
We owe it to the murdered journalist. (MT) Mr President, I hope that next week's summit will discuss the letter sent to the Finnish Presidency by no less than eight Heads of Government, who wrote to you about illegal immigration.
Secondly, we took a vote in the Committee on Budgets whereby we increased substantially the budget for the Frontex Agency to almost EUR 35 million, so that it can strengthen its operations at our external borders.
Much remains to be done, if we want people to feel that Europe is indeed taking into consideration their feelings about illegal immigration.
First of all I support the Finnish Presidency and its agenda for Lahti.
If you do not get these results I think future informal European Councils will be as empty as this Chamber is today.
I am very happy that you will have an opportunity to continue the discussion on the results of the Lahti Summit with the Prime Minister of Finland later this month, on 25 October in Strasbourg.
Mr President, first of all let me welcome the broad support that was given for the agenda for innovation, for a European institute of technology, for a common energy policy and for a European immigration policy.
Even the biggest Member States lack the dimension to promote the global culture we need now to face the challenges of this 21st century.
We cannot discuss energy with them in a serious manner if we have 25 different energy policies.
It is important to do what we can, but also to involve others in those efforts.
We should also speak with one voice on human rights, and I hope that this is the message which comes out from Lahti: the European leaders may come from different political and ideological backgrounds, from different national situations, but they are ready to build a strong Europe together and they are ready to speak with one voice to the outside world.
