The first prizewinner from Romania was Maia Morgenstern, one of our great actresses, who won the award in 2004.
The second Romanian woman is this year's winner, Monica Macovei, Romania's former independent justice minister.
This is PRO TV.
If we modernise long-distance heating in Central and East European countries with EU financing, then similar exemptions will of course no longer be warranted after 2020. (NL) Mr President, a number of weeks ago, legal proceedings instituted by the junta in Burma in a bid to put scores, at least one hundred, of members of the opposition, including the comedian Zarganar and the monk Ashin Gambira, behind bars following shady trials, were being wound up.
On the morning of 15 December, Hungarian members of the Reformed Church stood up with astounding courage in defence of their church and their pastor, chasing away the henchmen of the Securitate and the militia, and proceeded to form a human chain around the church.
In 1989, the Transylvanian city of Temesvár (Timişoara) became Romania's first free city.
The road from Romania to Europe runs through Temesvár (Timişoara). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have learnt that in Italy alone, every day, 4 million kilograms of food that is still safe to eat is destroyed, with a value of at least EUR 4 million - roughly half what Italy spends on international aid - and that the situation in many other countries of the Union is very similar.
I therefore call on the competent parliamentary committees to begin to examine this issue without delay, so that we might seek a solution to it. - (CS) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the visit of a delegation from the European Parliament to Prague Castle on 5 December.
This affair may bring unpleasant consequences in six months time in the elections to the European Parliament.
The Greek writer, Mimis Androulakis, has said: 'There is a deep dissatisfaction among young people today against the structure of Europe.
Mr President, long live the French-speaking world, long live regional languages, long live linguistic diversity! (Applause) (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, Marjory Van den Broeke, spokesman for the European Parliament Secretariat, told the press that the European Parliament has purchased eight body scanners, items which we debated in plenary for weeks, even adopting a resolution on the subject.
What is more, on 4 November I submitted a written request for information on this matter, and I am yet to receive a response.
I had to find the answer out for myself in the EU Observer on 10 December.
You can rest assured, however, that my colleagues and I have been giving of our best. - (PL) Mr President, on 10 December we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the proclamation of the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
This document was signed by India, a country that owes so much to Mahatma Ghandi, who was a fervent advocate of the rights of the individual.
It would therefore be appropriate to ask how things are going with previous recipients of the prize, for example the Kurdish/Turkish politician Leyla Zana, who received the prize in 1996.
In 2004, she was released after ten years' imprisonment, but last Friday, 5 December, she was once again sentenced to ten years in prison.
I would therefore urge all Members to express their solidarity with our former Sakharov prize winner, Leyla Zana, and I would call on the President to present a proposal for how the European Parliament can protest to the Turkish authorities.
I therefore call on all of us to ask the Commission and the governments of the Member States to make it a priority in Europe's health programmes, so that we can free 25 million of our fellow citizens from this tragedy. - (SK) At the time when Slovakia submitted its application to the European Union it was already a member of the Council of Europe and had therefore already signed and ratified the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms.
I am asking, therefore, for the European Union to ensure equality not only of obligations but also of rights in order that members of the Slovak minority living in the Vojvodina may enjoy the same rights as their fellow citizens of Hungarian nationality. (EL) Mr President, a bullet fired by a policeman which killed a fifteen-year-old boy was the cause of the events which have taken place in Athens over recent days.
Similar events have also occurred in other European capitals.
I am sure that everyone has understood what is happening. (EL) Mr President, since Saturday 6 December, when we started to mourn the needless loss of a young student, the attention of Europe has been on Greece.
We owe it to the young generation; we owe it to the memory of Alexander, the boy who suffered this needless death. - (PL) Mr President, the tragic death of a Polish citizen, Robert Dziekoński, at Vancouver airport last year had a profound impact on public opinion in Poland and in Canada.
I would ask you to consider, Mr President, and also the Council and the Commission for their part, whether what we need is in fact a truly extraordinary plan to take immediate action, before the dismissals and redundancies proliferate; they are already numerous in Italy, in my country, and are hitting large groups, from Eaton to Fiat itself. (DE) Mr President, it is significant that the plenary session of the European Parliament has not been told what the Vienna Regional Criminal Court decided some time ago.
Mr Martin, since you are constantly lecturing me, I should like to point out that, if we were to follow the d'Hondt system - that is, to proceed quite fairly - you would not have even been given the floor. (EL) Mr President, if we want to project the importance of the European Union, which is over fifty years old, we must highlight the fact that it has abolished war and that we live in a time of peace.
If we advise young people to express their views violently, then we must fear for the European Union. (EL) Mr President, I should like from this tribune to express my indignation and distress at the murder of a fifteen-year-old boy by a policeman in Athens.
It is the result of a neoliberal policy which is creating more and more poverty, marginalisation and exclusion, with the result that social cohesion is in jeopardy and we are heading towards extreme events such as those we are currently witnessing.
The appearance of the Carabinieri at the school was intolerable.
The accession treaty signed by both countries in 2005 gives Member States the opportunity to put in place on a bilateral basis barriers preventing the free movement of Romanian and Bulgarian workers for a minimum period of two and a maximum period of seven years.
Some Member States have already abolished these barriers even before 2009, while others have announced that they are going to retain these barriers for internal political reasons.
Thank you. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years a delegation from the European Parliament has been visiting the future holder of the presidency.
The cost to the Irish state is EUR 180 million, and we are grateful for EU solidarity in relation to the availability of a private storage aid scheme, but we need to know what exactly went wrong in the food chain in Ireland which allowed an ingredient with dioxins in it to be fed to animals.
We need to control home mixing and we need country of origin labelling to guarantee to our consumers the meats they are eating. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in future memory, this time, if it is recalled, will be seen as a time of genetic change in that Parliament and that European Union, Mr President, that back in 1985 you knew well and helped to shape: the European homeland versus the ruinous illusion of the old Europe of homelands.
The Europe of Coudenhove-Kalergi, of Winston Churchill, of our forefathers who gave their name to our Parliament.
I believe that we are consigning them all - look at the Mediterranean - to a fate that is surely dangerous and will surely be a blow to the pro-Europeans and democrats in those countries. (EL) Mr President, I should like to speak about the regulation on plant protection products.
This being so, I trust that we shall pay particular attention to this issue, because there is a possibility that we shall do more harm than good.
I call, Mr President, on you and on all wings of Parliament to do as the Greek parliament did in memory of this fifteen-year-old boy and for the European Parliament, as the guardian of human dignity and human rights, to observe one minute's silence now in memory of the young, fifteen-year-old boy who was murdered in Athens a week ago. - (SK) Last week we commemorated the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted under a resolution of the UN General Assembly on 10 December 1948.
I condemn this careless disregard for people with such a serious disability, and I call on the Commission to draw up guidelines so that Member States are obliged to provide adequate funding for such persons with disabilities. - (PL) Mr President, I should like to draw attention to a somewhat unusual situation that has arisen in my country, Poland.
Meanwhile, at the semiconductor company Quimonda in Vila do Conde, Portugal, there is increasing concern about the future of its 2 000 workers, given that the German parent company is announcing job cuts, although it is not known which companies will be affected.
