Implementation of the Services Directive (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Council on implementation of Directive 2006/123/EC, by Malcolm Harbour, Andreas Schwab, Evelyne Gebhardt, Cristian Silviu Buşoi, Heide Rühle, Adam Bielan, Kyriacos Triantaphyllides and Matteo Salvini, on behalf of the IMCO Committee - B7-0216/2009), and the oral question to the Commission on implementation of Directive 2006/123/EC, by Malcolm Harbour, Andreas Schwab, Evelyne Gebhardt, Cristian Silviu Buşoi, Heide Rühle, Adam Bielan, Kyriacos Triantaphyllides and Matteo Salvini, on behalf of the IMCO Committee - B7-0219/2009).
I do not think that this House needs any reminding about the importance of the Services Directive.
I think that they have clearly set an example to many other people and, in particular, in the meticulous way in which they are ensuring that public authorities at all levels in Sweden understand their obligations under European law in order to be able to authorise service companies coming from other places within the European Union.
But the transposition on 28 December is just the start of the process of removing obstacles, because every country is now going to come up with a list of proposals which discriminate against other countries and which, they believe, they can justify in the public interest.
We would like to hear tonight how the Commission is proposing to approach that process.
We would like to know from the Council what support they are giving to that.
We look forward to Mrs Ferrero-Waldner - perhaps in a field that is not so familiar to her - giving us some comprehensive answers.
There is still much to be done to remove barriers to trade and to facilitate the trade in services, and it is excellent therefore that we now have the Services Directive, which is to be transposed by 28 December.
The final report to the Commission on this should be ready on 28 December.
The national points of contact are to gather information concerning rights and requirements in the services sector for service providers and the recipients of services.
Finally, Madam President, I would like to thank Parliament for the interest it is showing in the process of implementing the Services Directive.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank the European Parliament for putting forward this timely oral question, particularly also on behalf of my colleague, Charlie McCreevy, on the state of the implementation of the Services Directive.
This is not entirely satisfactory, in particular, for citizens and businesses wanting to make use of their rights in the internal market.
As regards the implementation of the directive in the area of social services - to the extent that they are covered by it - this does not seem to have raised particular problems.
Finally, I think it is clear that stakeholders have played a vital role throughout the implementation process.
We have therefore decided, within the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, to address this question to you in good time before the transposition deadline in order to check whether you, as the Member States of the European Union, have undertaken your obligations, which were originally proposed by you, to transpose this directive by the end of this year, and whether you are able to meet this target.
Mr President, I am grateful that we are able to debate this topic today, as it is such an important one.
I would like to make one thing absolutely clear: as Parliament, we have not merely played a part, but we have ensured that, in this Services Directive, a very positive, constructive compromise was found.
However, there are a few things than I am not sure about in this regard, and the questions that we raised have not been answered.
I would also like to ask the Member States to what extent they have involved the stakeholders and, in particular, the trade unions and the social services, in the transposition.
In Rhineland-Palatinate, where I live, I had the opportunity, on 2 September, to participate in the first reading for the transposition of the Services Directive for this Federal Land.
As you can imagine, it will be impossible to achieve the transposition on time, and I believe that the other Federal Länder are in a similar position.
I am certain that, in most countries, this directive will not be transposed by 1 January 2010, even though these countries have had more than four years to do this.
Mr President, in the compromise reached in 2006, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament withdrew demands for social considerations to be given priority over the freedom of companies that provide services.
The Services Directive, adopted by the European Parliament and by the Council on 12 December 2006, is an intrinsic part of the Lisbon Strategy, which has been revised over time and adapted to the various situations that Europe has experienced over the last nine years, and its main objective absolutely must be to make the European economy the world's most competitive economy, but also a knowledge-based economy.
I question the interpretation of the provisions of Article 2 of the directive linked to the exclusion of social services from its scope.
These problems to do with the integration of services of general interest demonstrate the need to have European legislation that is specific to them and not to stick to a default definition as part of a directive on commercial services. (PL) Mr President, proper implementation of the Directive on services in the internal market is important not only for European entrepreneurs operating in that market, but also for consumers.
This example shows most conspicuously that ideal cooperation between Member States and European institutions is needed in order to achieve transposition in time in all Member States.
Indeed, this is the direction taken in the recommendations issued by the Commission in June this year concerning means for improving the functioning of the internal market.
In connection with the problems which we heard about a moment ago concerning transposition of the Services Directive, I would like to ask if Member States have sought to cooperate with the Commission, and if it can be said that in the implementation process, they have succeeded in applying any of the Commission's recommendations?
I would also like to ask that we receive in January a proposal for precise monitoring of the transposition of this directive in individual Member States. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I agree with the Commissioner that the Services Directive is one of the most important pieces of legislation passed in recent years, and that its proper implementation is extremely important.
Therefore, I am joining the appeal for acceleration of the implementation process by national authorities which still have not completed essential work in this area, in particular, on the question of proper implementation of the principle of freedom to offer services and of individual contact points.
Thus, my question is: does the directive in any way prevent the host country laying down the requirement for the services company to have a representative in place with the mandate to negotiate and enter into agreements? (PT) In the course of this debate, we must not forget the serious implications that transposition of this directive on the liberalisation of services will have in a number of countries, particularly those with highly unstable social situations, further worsening a crisis situation like the one we are experiencing.
Our aim is clear - and I know that it is the Commission's aim as well - and it is that all countries should have implemented the directive by 28 December 2009.
We deplore that, of course, but I know that all countries are working as quickly and swiftly as possible.
I would like to thank Parliament again, not only for its contribution in voting on and adopting the Services Directive, but also for acting as a watchdog and continuing to push the Council and the Commission to do what we can in order for it to come into place.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, as has been said before, we have discussed all the questions surrounding all the different social and other aspects of this directive.
As regards next year, I think it will be crucial to ensure that the process of mutual evaluation provided for in the directive is used in a constructive way.
Mr President, Member States must fully implement the Services Directive by 28 December 2009, which would, as in the case of goods and products, open up the services market to private individuals and companies.
The directive has opened up many possibilities, both for consumers and for entrepreneurs.
