Sri Lanka (debate) The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Sri Lanka. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for agreeing to accept the procedure laid down in Article 91 and to put this emergency resolution on last Monday's agenda, since, at our last plenary here, in Strasbourg, we already had an emergency resolution on this issue of Sri Lanka.
We wanted this resolution because we have to send a strong political signal to the government and the Tamil representatives in Sri Lanka, because the situation is getting worse every day.
We do not know how many people are affected, but we estimate that between 150 and 200 000 people need to be evacuated.
I would remind you that, for a long time now, some of the political groups have been asking for the opportunity to speak about the situation in Sri Lanka and that, for internal reasons in some countries, we have not been able to debate this issue of the Tamils and their situation, which has deteriorated since the 1980s.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, as one of the Tokyo Co-Chairs of the Sri Lanka peace process, the European Commission and I personally have been following the developments in Sri Lanka very closely.
We are deeply concerned about the current situation and the tragic humanitarian consequences of the conflict, as expressed in the GAERC Council conclusions of 23 February and the Co-Chairs' statement, issued locally on 3 February.
At the end of the day the European Commission continues to be convinced, as I myself would say, that there is no military solution to Sri Lanka's ethnic conflict.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam Commissioner, Sri Lanka's brutal civil conflict is finally nearing its end.
A long-term ceasefire would be a disaster because - as a suicide attack in Sri Lanka earlier this week demonstrates - the LTTE is ruthless, bloodthirsty and rightly identified as a terrorist organisation by the European Union and the United States.
Tonight's debate recognises also that the situation has moved on and, as Mrs Isler Béguin said at the beginning, that we need to send a strong signal about the deteriorating situation that is worsening day by day.
The Army fired artillery shells fitted with cluster munitions from 2 a.m.
In this indiscriminate cluster shelling, more than 130 civilians were killed, including children, and more than 200 were severely injured.' I doubt that anyone would suggest that this is fabricated.
He also refers to his colleague, Mr S.
He says that from 1 January to 6 March this year, 2 544 civilians have been killed in these 'safe zones' by bombing campaigns and well over 5 828 civilians have been gravely injured.
Yet the Sri Lankan army, he says, have been bombing by air and artillery fire, killing on average 30 to 40 civilians on a daily basis.
Amendments 7 and 8 strengthen the original reference to the war zone so that civilian needs can be fully attended to.
Finally, Amendment 9 suggests we send this resolution to the Secretary-General of the United Nations because I believe that this is an international humanitarian crisis, as reflected in the title, and that we should do everything we can.
Now, therefore, we must do everything possible so that humanitarian aid and our aid reaches the people who need it.
They are Sri Lankan.
Over the last 26 years, it has systematically carried out thousands of deliberate murders across Sri Lanka and, just two days ago, 14 people were murdered in a suicide attack during an Islamic festival in the Matara district.
The greatest service all in this House can do is call on the LTTE to lay down its arms and to release the civil population from its grip.
I know how the people long for peace after 25 years of violence.
You too mentioned that and the Foreign Ministers again urgently called on 23 February for this organisation to lay down its arms and end the terror.
Just imagine a Member State of the EU in which terror has reigned for 25 years.
For weeks, we have heard that in this small district, more than 100 000 people have simply been seized.
The Norwegian negotiator who worked for a long time to reach peaceful solutions is now a minister in the new government himself.
I think that our main focus now must be directed towards the fate of the civilian population and the only thing that can, in fact, apply here is what was said in the Council of Ministers on 23 February, namely that the EU calls for an immediate ceasefire.
I also think that, in this situation, where the people are trapped in this zone, we must oppose all acts of violence that prevent people from leaving the combat zone.
I want to thank Mr Meijer for his remarks.
I very much agree with Mr Gahler, who spoke a great deal of sense: it is the fate of the civilians that concerns us.
This is echoed by the European Commission, the ICRC, the UN, the International Crisis Group and Refugee Care Netherlands.
The title of the debate this evening is the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Sri Lanka, and we have a duty to do everything we possibly can to prevent that, which I think we can, if we find the right way forward.
In 2008-2009, we allocated EUR 19 million for humanitarian assistance, which was then channelled through partners like the ICRC, the United Nations and also some international non-governmental organisations.
Since September 2008, the ICRC has been the only agency allowed to operate in the LTTE controlled areas in Vanni.
Since 2008, we have provided another EUR 7 million in humanitarian assistance to the two organisations.
We have also been pushing consistently, in both Colombo and Brussels, for better access to these populations by humanitarian organisations.
Therefore, I can only say - together with the other Co-Chairs and also particularly with Norway - that we have used every opportunity to press the parties in conflict to implement the 2002 ceasefire agreement and to solve the conflict using peaceful means, but nothing has worked.
We have all remained committed to contributing to a peaceful solution to the conflict, as can be seen from the last Co-Chairs' press statement released on 3 February, of which I am sure you will all be aware.
The vote will take place tomorrow, 12 March 2009.
