International Financial Reporting Standards and the governance of the International Accounting Standards Board (debate) The next item is the report by Alexander Radwan, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the Governance of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, the subject matter of the report before us would seem, at first glance, to be highly technical.
It concerns so-called accounting standards in the European Union and worldwide, particularly for small and medium-sized companies.
What we want is therefore what we have already called for: IFRS as Europe understands them and not as this board dictates.
The EU's decision to require listed companies to use international accounting standards was a bold and visionary step towards this objective.
A single set of globally accepted accounting standards would provide significant benefits for our companies, our capital markets and our economy.
Ultimately, the question of accounting standards for SMEs in Europe will not be exempt from some form of pressure for harmonisation.
The IASB has achieved much in respect of internationally listed companies and accounting standards for them.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Thank you, Commissioner, for managing to come to Strasbourg.
Not all of them have such a strong impact on financial stability, or on the issues, in terms of power and governance, as accounting standards have.
Nowadays these accounting standards are international.
I have to thank Ms van den Burg for organising an interesting presentation on that subject last week.
Madam President, I commend my colleague Mr Radwan for a very well written report.
The adoption of the IFRSs in January 2005 has brought great benefits to the European Union by making accountancy requirements simpler across borders and financial statements easier to compare across countries, competitors and industries, enhancing the work of regulatory oversight, banking and capital markets.
International financial reporting standards are now being used or are being adopted in more than a hundred countries, including Australia, South Africa and others.
The report points to the fact that 17 months had passed before the IASB appointed a new chairperson.
I feel it might be better to make it optional so as to ensure flexibility, rather than prevent its application outright. (NL) Madam President, I must echo the compliments paid to Mr Radwan, not least because his report has enabled us to have a very interesting debate on the conflicts between legislation and self-regulation, especially at world level.
I appreciate that our aspirations place us in a quandary.
I think the European Parliament has shown latterly that it does that.
And in the immediate future these things must be done on behalf of small and medium-sized enterprises.
About 100 countries are using the standards and their globalisation has provided comparability and transparency, thereby increasing the confidence of operators, creating a more level playing field and strengthening market discipline.
Fifthly, in taking a stance on this issue or trying to answer these questions, it is often forgotten that two-thirds of the workforce are employed in the private sector in family-owned companies, and the majority of those family-owned companies are SMEs that do not seek finance from the capital markets.
Madam President, paragraph 30 of our motion for a resolution points out that financial statements do not simply serve the needs of investors but also other stakeholders.
So it is not a simply a matter of seeking to apply these rules to our region of the world alone. (LT) Madam President, as my colleague has already mentioned, this report deals with who is responsible for what in the accountability process.
The IASCF and the IASB have over recent years implemented significant reforms of their internal procedures but I cannot deny that further improvements are necessary.
Ms van den Burg mentioned the question of XBRL.
It is a very exciting development and I know Ms van den Burg has recently had exposure to all this.
Hopefully we will arrive some day at a situation where these things will be more or less automatic and not cause any great headaches for anybody because all the work will have been done previously.
There are times when we need to be quite blunt - and I am aware that some of my female colleagues have criticised me in that regard - because certain individuals who have appeared before this House in recent years have occasionally given the unmistakable impression that the European Parliament is of little interest to them.
Peter Holgate, a partner in PricewaterhouseCoopers, writing in the German edition of the Financial Times, said the following: 'I don't take the European position all that seriously.
Even if they end up not endorsing it, various countries could adopt it in their national generally accepted accounting principles.
That is why we need our own European set of standards for SMEs: we can build on the IFRS if that is appropriate but if it is not, then we will develop our own standards.
