That will certainly be done, Mr Staes. (Parliament adopted the Minutes) Mr President, on Monday afternoon, Parliament proposed that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs should look into the situation of the workers of the European corporation, Danone, threatened with the loss of 3000 jobs in the biscuit sector, 1700 of which are in France.
We do not know when the committee is going to meet to discuss this matter and it is very urgent as the European Board of Danone is going to meet tomorrow.
There is a feeling in Parliament, which I think is shared by all Members, that the authorities governing this institution take account of and give great priority to the issue of security.
I therefore feel that everything necessary is either being done or being considered in order to guarantee the smooth functioning of this Chamber in Strasbourg or in Brussels in the most secure conditions possible.
I shall repeat what I said a few moments ago: I believe that Parliament takes security issues extremely seriously, and we all feel that the circumstances in which we work and the fame of Parliament itself make it a target.
In the context of what we have been discussing, the security of this House, I wonder if you would follow this up and see what steps have been taken to improve security and report on that particular incident last November.
Mr Van Orden, the President of Parliament and the Bureau fully note your comment and you will soon have a response to the important issue that you have raised.
The 20th century began with women fighting for the right to vote.
The need for women to be promoted in the decision-making process and for a balanced participation of women and men in the democratic institutions, reflecting the balance of the sexes in nature, is a sine qua non of democracy and peace and of the cohesion and competitiveness of the European Union.
In response to this need and on the basis of documented proposals by the European network of experts which made up the Commission in 1992, the Council adopted an important recommendation to the Member States on the balanced participation of men and women in the decision-making process in December 1996.
The most satisfactory results are in countries which have a long tradition of promoting equality of the sexes, such as Sweden and Finland, where the proportion of women in parliament and government is over 40%.
Governments, especially in countries in which the proportion of women is below 30%, should consider how to adapt and reform their electoral systems.
The lack of equal opportunities in the labour market needs to be tackled by developing talent early on.
However, on some points there is not a majority amongst the Members of the PPE Group in the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.
However, the two most important amendments are about rejecting the establishment of quotas.
The more precisely we word this, the greater its credibility will be, especially among those who do not have sufficient experience in this field, and that will make it all the more likely that we will secure a broad consensus today.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the policy of the Group of the Party of European Socialists is for every female citizen of the EU to have access to decision-making processes at local, regional, national and European level.
Equal participation for women in political and social decision making is not only our legitimate right, but a social necessity.
Since the last government reshuffle in Germany, women now make up 37.5% of the Federal German Government, and this has been achieved by my party, by my political family.
We repeat ourselves constantly in these reports, calling for better statistics and training, awareness campaigns to encourage more women into politics in the same way as they have already very often become key players in their own communities and local groups, and for measures to make it easier for men and to women to balance work and family life.
This report does not dictate what should be done in individual Member States, but calls upon the governments to look at their own situation and take action to improve the balance of women and men, using legislative means, if necessary, as some have already done.
Where these measures have been used, they have been successful, not only in getting more women elected to Parliament but also in raising awareness, providing good role models for other women - girls in particular - and improving debate and decision-making all around.
Mr President, in the Swedish Encyclopaedia of Women' s History, the entry under the heading Patriarchy reads as follows: 'A social system based on hierarchical relations between men, structured so that the decision-making processes are controlled from the top down and so that women as a sex are placed in a subordinate position.
The material basis of this system consists of a division of labour according to gender which, at all levels of the hierarchies, assigns to women the tasks which are either unpaid or more poorly paid.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our central concern must be to establish equal opportunities between men and women.
We know from the statistics that in nearly all countries at least half the electorate is made up of women, yet the number of women in decision-making positions in companies and in public bodies is remarkably low.
I do not want to have my job because I am a woman, but because I am qualified for it, and I believe that many women feel the same way.
It is a long road along which we must continue to make progress, until such time as it is so normal to find women in the positions which have always been occupied by men that reports such as this are no longer necessary.
We argue for more balanced and higher-level participation by women than there is at present, particularly in certain countries of the European Union.
Women must be involved in all areas - not just in the defence of their own rights - by participating in the resolution of everyday problems, in the institutions and on company management boards, in unions and in social and cultural organisations.
I propose that the EU' s objectives regarding women in the decision-making process be based on the average of the three most successful Member States within each field, with annual reports from the Member States.
The equal participation of women in decision-making processes is not only a matter of demanding social justice and democracy, but is also essential if women' s experience and knowledge is to be made the most of.
Women represent 50 per cent of our Government and 44 per cent of the Swedish Parliament.
That is why, in my view, we have to keep emphasising the issue of decision making and what Europe can do.
The debate we are having today in this Chamber is one that has been going on continuously for two or three years in France.
There can be no production in our society without restrictions in order to ensure equality.
That is why I want to add very quickly, by way of conclusion, that there is nevertheless something important which must be clarified in today' s debate about decision making, which does not cover the whole problem regarding sexual equality, and that is the difference between political and economic matters.
Certainly, I am gaining a great deal from the current experience in France.
As regards economic equality in general, and decision making in particular, however, the problem is much more serious and much more extensive.
It is a much more complex issue.
In my country, where the two language regions, Dutch and French, should coexist in harmony, we also apply quotas for language proportions.
Mr President, Commissioner, despite the fact that the number of women in education, employment and politics has increased and continues to increase, it is clear that there are still great problems and inequalities in the social sectors under discussion.
Those who trust in the idea that, thanks to official equality and the passage of time, self-regulatory mechanisms will work in favour of social balance, are mistaken, because they do not appreciate the fact that, although equality before the law and equality of opportunity are necessary conditions, they are not sufficient in themselves.
The next Intergovernmental Conference must include amendments to the Treaty in this respect, so that this objective may be fulfilled in all the institutions and policies of the Union.
Mr President, the participation of women in decision making is not only a necessary condition for the rights and interests of women to be respected, but also an essential basis for consolidating justice and developing democracy.
The reality of the situation shows that, despite various recommendations and resolutions, this is an area in which major imbalances still remain, with a huge under-representation of women in decision-making bodies, both in economic and social spheres of activity and in politics, and this contributes to maintaining existing imbalances and discriminations.
But, unlike our rapporteur, I am not conceited enough to claim that everything would be different and better if women participated equally in the decision-making process.
Nevertheless, we must not accuse all men across the board of having the wrong intentions, for example in relation to defending the rights of children or to the environment, to name just a few of the areas mentioned in this context by our rapporteur.
The reason why I voted against this draft resolution on the Commission report in the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities was because it makes a number of exaggerated claims and demands, which are counter-productive for women who want to participate fully in the decision-making process.
I am against the demand addressed to political parties that they adopt quota systems and, in particular, the zipper system to set up the electoral lists.
What we need to do is to call on political parties to reform their structures and procedures with a view to getting rid of the direct and indirect obstacles to the participation of women, given that Member States could encourage political parties to put a larger number of female candidates on their electoral lists, by means of financial incentives if necessary.
It is defective to the extent that these amendments are not only incomprehensible but, as co-author, I am bound to say that, when I read these amendments in French, I feel like a mother hen who can no longer find her chicks.
Mr President, Commissioner, as the rapporteur has told us, the number of declarations, resolutions and undertakings on equal opportunities for men and women is pretty respectable.
There is a marked imbalance in the involvement of men and women in the decision-making process, and there are alarming differences between individual Member States.
This means that everyone involved in the economic and social world has to play a part if responsibility is to be distributed evenly across the public and private sectors, in business, politics and family life.
Above all, we need to recognise that the equal opportunities deficit in the labour market is partly attributable to the low proportion of women in Europe's businesses, in its trade unions and in its public sector, and partly attributable to an inadequate social infrastructure, distorted stereotypes and low pay.
But it is not just a question of increasing the number of women, but also about enhancing their role in society and recognising the quality of their work.
Mr President, I would like to express the point of view of working women not only because it is on them, of all women, that the burden of social organisation weighs most heavily, but also because the workers' movement can take pride in having been the first to fight for the recognition of equality between men and women.
In all areas, European institution policy is no more favourable to the interests of working women than Member State policy.
Although I will vote in favour of the report because of the good intentions that are stated in it, they are still nothing more than good intentions.
As a rule, this under-representation is not because of any lack of skill or expertise.
It should also be assumed that men have the same family commitments as women, and all we women debating here this morning who have a family would be unable to do all this if our partners were not also committed to their families as fathers.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish, first of all, to congratulate our fellow Member, Mrs Karamanou, on the excellent report she has presented to us.
Your report, Mrs Karamanou, is a fine example of the importance of the political texts drawn up in this Parliament.
This is a crucial problem because it predates our own participation in politics.
Some electoral systems make the participation of women even more difficult.
Thus, although there is a move towards attempting to change this system of single name electoral lists, with procedures being created, in France for example, to set the balance right and to achieve a quota of 50% for both sexes, the Portuguese government has announced the creation of a new electoral law that will partially replace the proportional system with the single name system.
The title of the report: "The balanced participation of women and men in the decision-making process" has a dual meaning.
The first type of policy is mainstreaming equal opportunities in the economy and employment, in social systems and social protection and in education systems and the cultural identity of our societies.
The second type of policy concerns specific measures and specific positive action to support the policy of participation in the decision-making process.
Not always with legislative undertakings on quotas but with political undertakings by the political parties and always with specific quantitative targets.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at noon.
If the report had been discussed in the evening it would have been insulting to the four million employees directly or indirectly connected with the forestry industry cluster.
The report expresses the hope that the Commission will also take account of the special features of competitiveness in these new industries.
In the opinion of the rapporteur, the report contains an unnecessary number of additional conclusions relating to forestry, but it was the wish of the committee, although Parliament has already expressed its view on forestry matters in the recent Thomas report.
Member States are the best experts when it comes to managing their own forests.
The multipurpose utilisation of forests, their importance as sinks of carbon dioxide, and their preservation for future generations will be best realised though the application of the principle of subsidiarity, and there is no justification for increasing the Commission's powers in forestry matters.
The needs of the forestry industry must also be taken into account in commercial policy.
The Commission has drafted a creditable communication on the state of global competitiveness in the forestry industry.
Forests and all wood products are a considerable carbon sink, and their importance in this respect has to be recognised.
Likewise I want to show my support for Amendments Nos 3 and 4 in particular, which are from the opinion by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Mr President, Commissioner, may I start by declaring an interest, or two interests, in this issue.
So you see the strong Finnish theme in this report continues even with me.
Like the rapporteur and other colleagues I recognise that forestry is a very important industry, important for the economy and important for the environment.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
Also, of course, we shall continue to need timber for all the other uses to which it is put, such as in construction and other possible new uses.
This is a valuable, sustainable industry, very important to the economy of Europe and to our environment, and this is a very timely report.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his resolute approach to the work he has done, which is so typical of him, on this report, which is a broad portrayal of human life in growing forest stock country.
They who have tended their forests properly for decades, lived off forestry and know this delicate balance, would be penalised, because there are Member States in which people no longer have anywhere to plant a tree, unless they start planting them on their own roofs.
For this reason, paragraph 17 in this report is very important.
Our group supports the views set forth in the report and most of the amendments to it.
The publishing industry is both unhappy and bemused, to say the least, and this is not how we promote the European Union nor how things work in the Member States.
We have had oceans since time immemorial, and this has nothing to do with our present problems with climate change, so I agree with my other colleagues and cannot see what possible relevance that paragraph has.
Mr President, I should like to refer briefly to the importance of forestry from a rural development as well as a family-farm perspective.
In the Irish government's national development plan for 2000-2006, a total of IEP 580m is being provided for forestry activities.
With regard to the EU operational programme for forestry and the generous funding available for afforestation, it is imperative that the end product of this investment is a quality, sustainable forest product, one capable of yielding over time a return both for the individual farmer and the community.
This must be avoided if the European sector is to meet the challenge of quality and competitiveness in the future.
We must therefore welcome this broadened approach to industrial policy and the Community forestry strategy.
I get the regrettable impression that he sees forests exclusively as industrial production units based on intensive single-crop farming necessitating a revolution every thirty years.
While I may be convinced of the validity of this approach to cultivating the Nordic forests, I think the report should have taken account of forests where biodiversity subsists, for example in France, as well as industries other than paper industries.
It seems to me that there was a tendency to forget everything to do with timber and other wood-based construction materials made in other parts of Europe.
In conclusion, we will support this report as its approach is quite significant, as well as the excellent amendments tabled by our colleagues, except for Amendment No 5, which seems to us irrelevant.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a sustainable and profitable forestry and wood industry is highly important for Europe in many ways.
The use of wood and wood products in the building industry should be promoted, and wood should increasingly be used instead of other construction materials.
So I hope that the House will accept this logic and vote for Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, wood is a renewable material, a construction material with a future.
I believe that wood will be a lot more important for us in the future than it has been in the past.
However, there is also the matter of making appropriate changes to building laws and regulations, because fire regulations in Europe in particular vary widely.
Peat will reinforce the situation regarding our self-sufficiency in energy and its guaranteed supply, which, alarmingly, are in decline; and it will promote the combined production of electricity and heat, and bring with it the synergic benefit of the use of wood and peat for energy.
Owing to its origin and essentially renewable nature, peat must be classified as a biomass fuel, but because it regrows substantially more slowly than other plants, a new, third category should be established and placed between fossil fuels and energy sources whose renewability rate is fast.
Furthermore, studies on carbon levels and gas circulation in peatlands have come out in recent years and their results show it would be desirable to have a re-evaluation of peat fuel emissions which took account of gas levels in bogs as a whole.
The peat harvest accounts for less than one per mil of the total area of northern peatlands.
For example, in Finland we use less than half the annual growth of peat each year.
The report is exhaustive and explores in detail those numerous factors that affect competitiveness in the forestry industry, both the tangible and the intangible.
Studies on the printing and mechanised industries have already been published.
Representatives from the Community' s institutions, such as Parliament and the Commission, as well as the Member States also participate in the forum.
The next forum is to be held in Stockholm in June.
Forest-based industries are those in which all the economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainable development are closely dependent on one another.
The problem for the Commission has been that the resources of the Directorate-General for Enterprise have fallen by 20% over the last year.
I am nevertheless prepared to take this matter up now as a subject for discussion again, mainly with a mind to looking at in which sector or in connection with which sector publishing would best be placed.
The debate is closed.
Mr Ferri is absent this afternoon and cannot stay behind to present his report.
I think it appropriate, unless there are any objections, to agree to his request to postpone the report due to his absence this afternoon and in view of the fact that the report could not be discussed at the appointed time.
Mr Swoboda, I agree entirely with you.
It is up to all the Members of the House to show how serious they are in their work, in line with the commitments they have made as Members of Parliament.
Madam President, I want to make two brief points in this context.
So perhaps we could also look at ways of making better use of our time and using the Monday evening for debates.
I am therefore entitled to state that I think that, when a request is made to postpone the vote on a report which is timetabled for the end of Thursday' s sitting, and which must be presented by a Member who has to travel 2000 km to get home and who, if he cannot take the only flight available, on Thursday afternoon, is then forced to go home on Friday evening, we ought also to show some flexibility with regard to his situation in future.
Unfortunately, this is a vote I consider irresponsible, and it places us in this situation, which we must manage in as responsible a manner as possible in the coming months.
We do not need to start a debate on the issue.
Madam President, Parliament voted to reduce the Strasbourg part-session to four days, with a consequent reduction in the number of working days for ancillary staff.
Madam President, last Monday I took the floor to give evidence to the honourable Members of this House on the recent decision of the Spanish government granting clemency to fourteen torturers.
In no motion for a resolution on human rights do we find the slightest reference to the Kingdom of Spain though many countries are specifically mentioned.
On human rights, once again, hypocrisy has been voted through in this Parliament.
United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva The liberalisation of the air transport sector and the stiff competition between airlines has caused serious problems by eroding safety standards for passenger aircraft.
Both the Committee on Transport and the rapporteur have improved on the Commission's proposals.
It is also imperative, where no proposals for agreed rules are made by interested parties, that the European Parliament itself take the initiative on flight times and on working times and other requirements for the flight and cabin crew by 1 May 2001, taking account of the needs of workers and safety requirements.
The only reason we voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution is the stance adopted in favour of abolishing the death penalty and the affirmation of a few basic principles regarding the equality of women, the treatment of children and opposition to racial discrimination.
Although the resolution explicitly mentions a number of countries, such as Tibet, Chine, Afghanistan, Papua-New Guinea and Chechnya, where human rights are effectively violated in many, if not all areas, not a word is said regarding the major powers, the European Union in particular, which, while they do not necessarily violate human rights at home, violate them in their former colonies, either directly or by giving protection to dictators that ride roughshod over human rights.
Yet, as far as the major powers which are responsible for the exploitation and oppression of the greater part of the world, and their political representatives, are concerned, references to human rights are, generally speaking, nothing more than hypocritical declarations contradicted by their diplomatic and military action and by those 'reasons of state' generally used as a front to conceal the sordid interests of major financial groups that do not care one bit about human beings or their rights.
Madam President, I wish to speak on this report because it is necessary for the European Union to find a more effective way to ensure that Member States who make commitments in relation to matters of life and death actually comply with those commitments.
The report points out that during the 1990s the number of road deaths fell in the European Union by 26%.
We have the third highest accident rate in the European Union and we have the highest fatality rate in the European Union.
I shall therefore vote in favour of this report.
It is clear that this issue requires the concerted efforts of all concerned: EU, national and local authorities, as well as the many voluntary organisations and initiatives which aim to tackle the problem of traffic accidents.
The number of fatal accidents varies greatly from one Member State to another ranging from 60 to 243 per million with an EU average of 116.
In my own country, Ireland, there are 129 persons per million inhabitants killed on the roads each year.
I find particularly disturbing the fact that road accidents are the most common cause of death amongst children and people under 45 years of age in the EU.
The figures show clearly that the number of fatal accidents can be reduced drastically throughout the EU.
Inadequate road safety costs society and the Member States a great deal of money.
In Portugal and Greece, there are as many as 243 and 212 deaths per million, whilst at the lowest end of the spectrum, there are 60 and 61 deaths per million in Sweden in the UK, respectively.
We desperately need to improve road safety with safety equipment in cars, seat belt campaigns and better road signs.
The Labour Government in Britain is at the forefront, leading a campaign against drink-driving.
Poli Bortone Report (A5-0358/2000) Road traffic accidents are the most common cause of death among children and persons under the age of 45 in the EU, which makes the problem a major public health issue.
Madam President, I wanted to explain that I particularly voted for the Poli Bortone report because Amendment No 1 was adopted.
Costa Paolo Report (A5-0345/2000) Madam President, on the very crowded motorway between Bergamo and Milan I was sitting next to Lino Miserotti again, and we were talking about motorway tariffs.
Lino Miserotti told me he thought it was right for him, as a pensioner, to have to pay to use the motorway, thus contributing to the construction and maintenance of an important item of transport infrastructure, but that it would be good if people who were still working did not have to pay a toll.
The state, the States, should think primarily of the way they use our money before giving Brussels any sort of power to needlessly make the situation worse.
The social dumping practised by the road industry or the scandal involving motorway concessions, for example, are not challenged in any way.
Karamanou Report (A5-0373/2000) We agree with some of the elements of the report, specifically with the need to develop transport infrastructure for environmental sustainability and the preservation and improvement of the right of all citizens to movement and accessibility to public transport services, although we think that these points should addressed in greater detail in the resolution as a whole.
Nevertheless, we can only oppose the establishment of Community criteria that treat all users of transport alike, taking no account of the various levels of infrastructure that currently exist in the Member States.
These proposals would, according to the calculations of the Dutch Government, increase the price of petrol by a further 15 per cent and the price of diesel by 21 per cent, as well as increasing the price of tickets for medium and long-distance train journeys by almost 50 per cent.
This signal could be misinterpreted or even turned against us to score political points.
We are also in favour of concrete actions and measures being implemented in the EU Member States.
For example, in Germany, my own party, the CDU, has a woman leader and in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats a considerable number of the national delegations are led by women.
There are various different systems in the EU Member States for ensuring that women are properly represented numerically speaking.
So any attempt to make out that my group, because a majority of its Members voted against the Karamanou report, is in some way opposed to balanced participation of men and women in the decision-making process, any such attempt is certainly doomed to failure.
Discrimination still exists, and it still takes women with "fire in their bellies" to make it through the dense system of hidden prejudice and break through in political, trade and other organisations.
The apparent interest in democracy in the family expressed in the motion for a resolution is in fact an interest in reversing full employment (the motion frankly admits as much), and reducing and privatising welfare services.
Women will only gain their rightful place both in the family and in political and economic life by joining the mass grass-roots movement fighting to reverse the policies responsible for their under-representation.
We disagree with the imposition of quotas on political parties because they are organisations which people join voluntarily and they alone have the right to decide on their structure and how they operate.
I shall vote in favour of the report because it has the merit of once more highlighting a recurrent problem regarding the involvement of women in political life.
The first is the economic situation: as long as women are the primary victims of an economic system which forces them into part-time work, secondary income and insecure jobs, to expect them to get involved in political life will remain a pious hope.
The second is the political situation: the report could at least put forward rules for elected representatives which require new people to be elected in each legislative term thereby enabling a turnover in members which would favour the election of more women.
Wood burning is not a sustainable source of energy, because CO2 and other polluting substances are released in the process.
There are other Members, too, in exactly the same position.
I feel that the absence of these Members who were down to speak on a report which was one of the priorities of the French Presidency means that we cannot have the proper debate which we ought to have on a subject on which Parliament must be consulted before the Council may decide.
In my capacity as rapporteur and on behalf of the PPE Group, I am therefore requesting, Mr President, that my report be postponed until a later part-session.
Mr Posselt, that is an announcement of an intervention of almost twenty minutes during the debate on the Deprez report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Posselt's last statement, his threat to talk for 20 minutes non-stop about the Deprez report, really is an argument for deferring the report at this stage.
What we are witnessing here - and we have already debated this once this afternoon, as we also did on Monday and Tuesday - is, and I shall make no bones about it, an attempt to systematically undermine Strasbourg as the seat of Parliament.
Mr Posselt, even if it would make a valuable contribution if you were to speak for 20 minutes - and I too could also speak for 20 minutes, as no one else is left from my group either - in reality it would mean that the work Mr Deprez has so carefully done would not be debated in the way it deserves here.
But in any case, that is a secondary issue, because under Rule 146 of the Rules of Procedure a decision cannot be taken now on a matter like this.
You can request and propose - that is, a political group or at least thirty-two Members can do so - adjourning the debate to another time in Parliament' s schedule, but only at the beginning of the debate.
Excuse me, Mr President, but surely in this instance the rule should have been the same as for Mr Ferri' s report this morning.
I am not asking for a special favour, simply for the application of the procedure applied this morning.
Such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately.' So, not now, but at 5.30 p.m.
It is precisely those legal affairs against which UN experts expressed their veto in a recommendation three years ago, that have now been included in the model adopted.
We have to remember that the members of the ruling Cambodian People's Party, including the prime minister, Hun Sen, were once activists of the Khmer Rouge, serving under the dictator Pol Pot.
He was given partial amnesty after he defected with about 10,000 supporters in 1996.
No Khmer Rouge leaders has ever been tried and only two are in detention, one being the person who ran a notorious torture centre in Phnom Penh from which only seven out of more than fourteen thousand inmates emerged alive.
Normally, in other war crime courts, there are only foreign judges and prosecutors.
This becomes ever more worrying when we see that while the UN-nominated judges will be screened by the Cambodian Supreme Council of the Magistrate, a body controlled by the ruling party of Phnom Penh, the UN has no power whatsoever to screen the judges appointed by Cambodia.
Although it has always maintained that it only provided the Khmer Rouge with technical expertise in agriculture, the Cambodian documentation centre recently unearthed evidence to show that it was directly involved in the setting up of the interrogation and torture centre in Phnom Penh where thousands of Cambodians died.
The human rights abuses of Bosnia, Kosovo, Sierra Leone, Chile, Angola are dwarfed by the sheer scale of the atrocities that took place under the Khmer Rouge.
The deliberate deaths of between one and two million people constituted a real genocide.
Personally I hope that the prosecutions will not be restricted to the top 20 leaders but be extended to those who daily brutalised and executed their victims.
Mr President, it is a positive step that the draft law on the trial of the Khmer Rouge members in Cambodia has been adopted in the country' s National Assembly and that King Sihanouk is to sign it after it has been discussed by the Constitutional Council.
As the Cambodian judicial system is still frail, the trials are to be organised in such a way that both international and local judges will be presiding.
During the time of the Khmer Rouge, nearly all those in the country' s legal profession were killed, and the country has not had time to evolve a new professionally run judicial system.
This concern is well-founded.
It is not always easy to distinguish clearly between the victims and the persecutors.
However, I would like to say that the subject of Cambodia very much demonstrates the importance of our topical and urgent debates.
This House, thank goodness, now has greater powers as regards external policy than it had 20 years ago.
It is now due to be ratified by the Constitutional Council and King Norodom Sihanouk.
Nevertheless, the first reaction from the UN after receiving an unofficial translation, has been cautiously positive, and the Commission hopes, therefore, that the remaining outstanding issues can be resolved so that the UN can improve the new court and the agreement between the Cambodian government and the United Nations can be implemented expeditiously.
Although Prime Minister Hun Sen has given assurances that nobody would be immune from prosecution, he has also indicated that this is a very sensitive issue for parts of the Cambodian population.
In particular, Hun Sen has warned that "war could break out" if the Khmer Rouge deputy premier Ieng Sary is put on trial.
So there are very good reasons why we should follow this closely.
The vote will take place this evening, at 6.30 p.m.
Much more serious, in our opinion, is an omission in recital D.
It has a direct bearing on the very essence of Georgia' s political stability.
It is precisely this specific humanitarian problem which poses a direct threat to the authority of President Shevarnadze.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have had to wait a long time to get this resolution on the agenda.
This situation is the work of Moscow, the new imperialistic policy pursued by President Putin.
No solutions are contemplated, although I do not see why it should not be perfectly possible, in a European Union which will have 450 million members, to have 455 million.
The only solution which might stabilise the whole region, right on Chechnya' s doorstep, and put a brake on Russia' s hold in this region, the only serious proposal, by which I mean a proposal that Georgia should accede to the European Union in due form, has not been made.
The region is stagnating, ossified in political, economic and energy transition processes which continue to exist only in theory.
A situation which has until now been held in a vegetative status quo, which may be considered nonetheless as the lesser evil.
At least, everything was done to defuse the different justifications for war in the framework of an ad hoc stability agreement.
The unilateral imposition of a visa regime on Georgia, with the exception of two regions of Georgia, will create new divisions in a country which is a member of the Council of Europe, wishes to develop democratically, and with which we have concluded an agreement precisely in order to support it in all areas.
We are therefore asking the Commission to consider, in conjunction with the Council, whether we could not review and work out a better approach to these conflict situations, based on appropriate decisions which will help people there who want to build a democratic society and seek a peaceful future, and to support Georgia in observing human rights and complying with the other obligations it has entered into within the Council of Europe.
We all know what these reprisals are about.
We all have an interest in preserving what is in any case very fragile nationhood and in supporting the first faltering steps towards democracy in this region and in Georgia.
I am delighted that a delegation from our neighbours, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, is currently visiting Chechnya, and I wish to appeal to the Commissioner to travel to Georgia and Chechnya in the near future and have a close look at the human rights situation there on the spot, just as the Council of Europe is doing in such a thorough way.
We are the single most important provider of humanitarian assistance to the northern Caucasus and, over the years, we have also been the main provider of humanitarian assistance to the southern Caucasus region.
Applying a special visa regime or allowing exemptions for the inhabitants of secessionist regions could imply support for the legitimacy of their regimes and undermine Georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Georgia is a member of the UN, the OSCE and the Council of Europe and it has a partnership and cooperation agreement with the EU.
The vote will take place this afternoon at 6.30 p.m.
We have the clear duty to report and evaluate any progress towards greater respect for human rights in Turkey, which is why our group strongly supports the idea of sending a delegation into the Turkish prisons as soon as possible.
Mr President, the recent events in Turkish prisons are tragic by any standards and it is an enormous pity that the situation had been allowed to deteriorate over such a long period with the almost inevitable consequences.
As relations between the European Union and Turkey develop in an increasingly positive manner, we need to take a measured approach in our comments on Turkey's problems.
We too have had situations where terrorists have more or less had total control over their accommodation and recreation areas and we too have had to deal with the tragedy of hunger strikes.
The situation in the prisons becomes yet another facet of the armed struggle against the established government.
The current problems started because the armed groups were not prepared to concede control over the prisons to the authorities.
The response by the security forces is not the cause but the consequence of the problem.
They see this as part of the natural process of adopting the acquis.
Mr President, today's debate and subsequent vote follow on from the debate which we held in this House on 14 December last year, when the urgent vote was cancelled following the decision by the three political groups to withdraw their motions.
Of course, what we also need is an objective inquiry with international guarantees and for responsibility to be apportioned for what happened on 20 December.
The political parties and the popular movements in Turkey must be allowed to operate as freely as parties and movements in the rest of Europe.
The battle between different forces must be fought by peaceful means.
It must be accepted that Turkey consists of different national and cultural groups which must all have the same rights.
Languages and cultures must be accepted in the schools, especially in the Kurd-dominated areas.
Mr President, when a debate on the unacceptable situation in Turkish prisons was scheduled during the last plenary session of the European Parliament in December 2000, and the relevant motions for resolutions were withdrawn due to a lack of coordination between the political groups involved, the disturbance in the Turkish prisons was still in its infancy and the reaction of the Turkish authorities had not yet manifested itself in all its barbarity.
With that in mind, Mr President, I wish to appeal once more to Turkey to finally eliminate these laws from its penal code and to stop incarcerating political prisoners.
Mr President, I should like to start, on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece and the Greek people in general, by expressing our solidarity both with the political prisoners in Turkey and with all the Turkish people who suffer under the Turkish regime.
Turkey is a candidate country for membership of the European Union.
However, we have noticed - even recently - that people who have played and who still play an important role in European developments, such as former chancellors Kohl and Schmidt, tend to be in favour of Turkey's European prospects when they are talking as politicians but, when speaking at private seminars and conferences, maintain that Turkey has no place in the European Union.
Situation in Algeria Mr President, at the start of this part-session, the request from our group, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group, for a debate on the situation in Algeria was accepted.
So our own message is not compassionate but political.
We, of course, wish to express our distress at the heinous violence which bruises the Algerian nation a little more each day, but we are also aware that the Algerians have had more than enough compassion.
We believe that any proper defence of human rights must begin with the reinforcement of the rule of law in Algeria and must contribute towards ensuring the authority of a government and a president elected in what we persist in considering democratic elections.
Yes, once again Algeria, although, admittedly laying itself open to this with its centuries-old internecine divides, has been given over to power struggles and my own country, France, which undoubtedly bears some responsibility towards this country, will continue to accept them in the name of ancestral friendship and to ensure that the government and the president which the country has chosen succeed in ensuring as best they can in the face of instability and certain external machinations - including, I repeat, by some of our friends - peace and the authority of a state which is, even today, a constitutional state.
The hopes raised in Algeria and throughout the world by President Bouteflika' s civil concord initiative must not give way to the disenchanted view that there is really nothing that can be done in this country to eradicate violence and establish the rule of law.
In the same way that we have made a commitment to supporting those who, in the Basque country, have rebelled against indiscriminate terrorism, it is our duty to do all we can to support those in favour of concord and reconciliation in Algeria.
It is Europe' s duty, and it is also in its interest.
That is why I shall support the joint motion for a resolution which will be put to the vote in this House shortly.
On this occasion, I would ask our Algerian partners to understand that we certainly do not want to look like we are sermonising out of some sort of feeling of superiority, but as people of goodwill, determined to assist them, if they so wish, in putting an end to their current tragic plight and to re-establishing with them, in future, the bonds of friendship which have linked us throughout history.
As the international human rights organisations have shown, the fight against Islamist terrorism is being waged illegally.
It is crucial for the Algerian authorities to agree to bring all those responsible for all these crimes before the courts.
In Algeria, no one can deny the intransigence of the senior military hierarchy which has been in power for 39 years, blocking the political system and cultivating a lack of transparency.
For too long Europe has elected not to intervene in events in Algeria, siding with the established administration.
Mr President, last Tuesday night, 11 people were murdered at a false roadblock in the Ain Defla province; on Saturday, 24 December, a young cabaret singer was murdered in a discotheque in the town of Annaba; a week before that, 16 high school students were savagely murdered inside their own boarding school.
Over two hundred people - men, women, children, the elderly - have been murdered; girls have been abducted and raped.
Finally, the economic and social situation is also perilous, when it already proved a propitious breeding ground for the rise of Islamism in the 1980s.
Mr President, much has already been said by other Members.
So, on his visit, President Prodi was right to sign an agreement and to give EUR 5 million to bolster the independent press and establish a statute for journalists.
It is shameful how the Algerian authorities do not come up to the mark in this respect.
The Commission recalls that the improvement of detention conditions in Turkish prisons is addressed in the accession partnership for Turkey which received political approval by the Council on 4 December 2000.
Democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms are key principles that the European Union applies even-handedly to all its partners.
Algeria must also find a way of addressing the past crimes of terrorists who have renounced violence.
Though understanding the difficulty of tackling terrorism in Algeria, the Commission nevertheless remains concerned at the human rights violations and, in particular, the disappearances.
It is vital that resolute action be taken against retrograde moves and violations in the matter of human rights.
The debate is closed.
As you know, after the topical and urgent debate, we will have a short break until 5.30 p.m.
The deadline for the states to sign this Treaty of Rome was 31 December.
Thank you, Mr Posselt.
It was right to note, as we did in our resolution, that President Clinton signed the Treaty of Rome at the end of last year, but it is legitimate to wonder if he would have done so had the Florida vote chanced to give the victory to Al Gore.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in a few minutes Parliament will be adopting a resolution on the International Criminal Court for the eighth time in four years.
Those objectives have been achieved.
Mr President, it does indeed cause some confusion when two people have the same surname and not even the parliamentary staff are able to distinguish between them.
The ECJ in Luxembourg rules on the application and interpretation of the treaties of the European Union.
The International Court of Justice in The Hague rules on international disputes.
The International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg passes judgement on violations by States of rights arising from the Human Rights Convention.
Therefore it must follow, and I hope the House will agree, that if we are serious about the human rights of men, women and children, then we must have a permanent International Criminal Court to prosecute those who carry out or commission crimes against humanity.
I believe we should welcome the signing of the Treaty on 31 December by the United States of America and we should also welcome the Yugoslav Federation signing the Treaty on 19 December 2000.
Nonetheless, at the same time we must urge all states to continue to support the work of the International Criminal Tribunals for Rwanda and former Yugoslavia.
History teaches us that we must never forget.
Sign the Rome Treaty on the ICC and thereby signal our commitment and our challenge to the rest of the world.
We need this Criminal Court so that international crimes against humanity - which, as you know, have unfortunately not diminished but tended to increase in number - can finally be referred to a significant, objective and worldwide body.
To prevent this from continuing to happen, it is tremendously important for there soon to be one unified criminal court throughout the world so that we no longer need to operate through special courts.
The Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague is very commendable.
It shows how important it is not only to enshrine legal standards in international law throughout the world, directed against expulsion, mass murder and aggression, but also to provide the corresponding instruments with which to enforce them.
As of 31 December, the statute was signed by 139 countries and ratified by 27.
The Commission notes, with satisfaction, that the United States signed the Rome Statute on 31 December and the Yugoslav Federation earlier on 19 December.
In the meantime, the Commission will continue to provide grants to initiatives in support of the International Criminal Court.
So far, approximately EUR 4.8 million of grants have been provided to support the activities of NGOs or institutions working on information campaigns concerning the International Criminal Court.
The Commission will provide further support for these activities this year.
We want to promote this and use our cooperation with NGOs to keep up the momentum to make this Court a reality.
The vote will take place at around 6.30 p.m.
Mr President, disaster has struck once again in El Salvador, two years after Mitch, the terrible hurricane whose effects are still being felt to this day and for which, I might add, it would seem the European Union still has not come up with the money it had promised.
Let us see whether or not, this time, the aid to alleviate the consequences of the earthquake arrive before another tragic event strikes this sister country.
There are continual aftershocks in El Salvador and even in Nicaragua.
This situation occurring in Central America is nothing new.
I am happy to say that all bodies there are democratically elected, but very undemocratic habits still remain in these Central American countries.
Europe acted promptly in sending emergency aid, both in November 1998 and this time.
Nevertheless, the problem requires - as my two fellow Members have already stated more than adequately - more structural aid.
On 26 March of this year, another meeting will be held between the San Jos Group and the European Union in Guatemala.
A positive way to conclude this meeting with the San Jos Group would be to proceed to implement the reconstruction programme for Central America with the new procedure for helping the victims in El Salvador.
Mr President, my group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, would like to add its voice to the expressions of sympathy for the families of the victims of the recent earthquake, and for the people of El Salvador, following this latest tragedy.
In fact, I had the honour and gratifying responsibility of presenting a report to this House, on behalf of the Committee on External Affairs, on aid for the reconstruction of Central America following Hurricane Mitch, which was adopted unanimously.
The European Union has to do some very hard work in this area and, amongst the problems to be faced, there is one I would like to highlight: the fraudulent diversions of the aid sent.
Mr President, the PPE-DE Group is shaken and filled with consternation at the news of the severe earthquake in El Salvador.
I can still see the dreadful images from the seventies of the earthquake in Italy, and I can understand the sense of distress prevailing in El Salvador.
Mr President, I really must say that I am quite amazed at how one can manage, in a debate about an earthquake in El Salvador, to say that one was a reserve officer in the German army and a "positive" member of the generation of 68 and to talk about stone-throwing members of the 68 Movement.
The European Union's credibility, both internally and in its relations with its partners, is threatened when money is admittedly made available and aid is promised, but because of bureaucratic obstacles the aid either arrives far too late or not at all.
I want to make it clear that as part of our decision last year, supported by this House, to increase our stake in the whole HIPC initiative - EUR 1bn, we decided to spend it globally, not just on the ACP countries.
The reason for this was that, as a consequence of Hurricane Mitch, Honduras was included in the HIPC initiative.
Several Members have raised concerns about the slow delivery of the more long-term reconstruction part of the Hurricane Mitch follow-up.
The situation today for the implementation of this programme is that these people have now been working in Managua since early autumn.
Things are finally starting to happen on the ground.
As in the past, when it assisted El Salvador after the 1986 earthquake through the construction of a new hospital and provided very substantial humanitarian and reconstruction aid to the countries stuck by Hurricane Mitch, the Commission stands ready to help Central America and El Salvador to face the present dramatic challenges.
As soon as the earthquake occurred the Commission humanitarian aid office, ECHO, directed a field expert stationed in Honduras to go directly to the scene and he was there by Sunday.
We are also considering as favourably as possible the requests for a re-orientation of resources available in Commission-supported development projects in the zones and sectors affected, including those foreseen in the framework of the post-Mitch reconstruction programme.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Afterwards I will give my opinion and that of my group on this.
As a rule, we ask for a speaker in favour of postponing the report.
You were the first to raise your hand, Mr Schulz, you were the quickest.
However, in the meantime, I was informed that most of the people who had taken part in this debate in my committee, and who I hoped would be able to speak before the House, had unfortunately sent their apologies as they were unable to take part in the debate.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in principle I support Mr Deprez's request.
What was right for the Ferri report this morning must also apply to the Deprez report this afternoon.
In my opinion this can be resolved by creating a coherent and internally logical system for doing our work which runs until Friday afternoon.
We shall now proceed to the vote on the postponement. (Parliament rejected the request to postpone the report by Mr Deprez) We shall now proceed to the debate on the report by Mr Deprez.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my report is based on an initiative by the French Republic concerning third-country nationals, who are holders of what is called a national long-stay visa; in other words, one valid for no more than three months, which has been issued by a Member State of the Schengen area.
Under current Community law, namely, Article 18 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement, third-country nationals are only permitted to transit through the territory of other Member States in order to reach the country which issued the long-stay visa.
Accordingly, and this concerns thousands of people every year throughout the Union, a holder of a long-stay visa and who has not yet received a residence permit, is in the least favourable position by comparison with other third-country nationals as far as freedom of movement in the Schengen area is concerned.
The fact that a whole raft of extremely stringent conditions must be fulfilled, in each of our countries, in order to obtain a national long-stay visa makes this situation even more paradoxical, and, to my mind, even more scandalous.
The objective of the French Republic is simple and is very clearly stated in the Explanatory Statement.
The aim is to enable freedom of movement in the Schengen area for holders of a national long-stay visa who are awaiting their residence permit.
Therefore, the problem lies not in the objective itself, but in the way that the French Republic has chosen to achieve this goal and the consequences of this in terms of the discretionary powers of Member States with regard to citizens' rights.
Yet, if the real aim of the initiative is to facilitate freedom of movement for nationals, the required legal basis is Article 62(3), which stipulates that the Council shall, within a period of five years of the Treaty of Amsterdam' s entry into force, adopt measures setting out the conditions under which nationals of third countries shall have the freedom to travel within the territory of the Member States during a period of no more than three months.
Ladies and gentlemen, the choice of legal basis is never an innocent choice.
This means that, if we accept the proposal as presented by the French Republic, it would give any Member State involved in the closer cooperation under the Schengen Agreement the right to be informed of all requests for a long-stay visa made in every other country of the Schengen area, through what is called the prior consultation procedure, and, as a consequence, it would be able to block the freedom of movement by persons that this country does not approve.
Therefore, I myself chose to amend the initiative of the French Republic in order to bring it into line with the stated objective, as set out in the Explanatory Statement, which is to facilitate the movement of holders of a national long-term visa while awaiting their residence permit.
That is why I shall ask the House to accept the amendments that I have made with the full support of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
Mr President, I am grateful for the opportunity to speak for the Committee on Petitions.
The Tampere Summit in 1999 spoke of according similar rights to third-country nationals as those enjoyed by EU citizens.
We believe we need political coherence in our policy-making in this area.
The lack of such coherence partly explains the argument over the legal base.
It was our committee's view that we could reduce the number of such disagreements with the Council in future by reducing the number of individual national initiatives in this area and looking instead for Commission proposals which go through an initial vetting procedure.
On the substantive issue, while being aware that not all Member States are involved in the Schengen Agreement, of course, it seemed to our committee that we should bring the rights of third-country nationals into line with those of citizens.
This is particularly important where partners, not parents as it says in my explanatory statement for some very strange reason, are affected by a different legal status, and we have had a number of petitions on these issues which we added to our opinion.
It is our hope and expectation also that the Committee on Petitions will automatically be asked for an opinion in good time on such issues in future.
Mr President, I should like first of all to congratulate Mr Deprez on his brilliant report which deserves our full support.
We have of course worked very hard on this report in our Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
I should like to say quite clearly that both Mr Deprez's comments on the legal basis and his criticism of the Council and the Commission's approach to this area deserve our full support.
The Council and the Commission are acting just as unsystematically on this important issue as we almost did just now and as we have done this week regarding the agenda.
Where asylum and immigration are concerned we are dealing with a completely confused policy where individual initiatives are put to us one after another - sometimes by the Council, sometimes by the Commission, sometimes by individual Member States - but where there is no strategic approach.
But we call on the Council and the Commission finally to move from patch-up jobs to a systematic, strategic policy in this area and to present an overall, unified vision through which we can move step by step.
Mr President, I should like to express my satisfaction.
Allow me first of all to say to the Council that we are dealing with an initiative of the French Government, and recently in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs we have seen individual Member States taking initiatives time and again, and we have then seen that the Member States sometimes happen to be mistaken about their choice of legal basis.
When Mr Posselt talks about freedom of movement, he mainly means people from the southern hemisphere or asylum seekers.
The amendment of Article 18 of the Schengen Agreement is the key element of the French initiative.
We should be aware that, currently, third-country nationals may only transit through the territory of another Member State in order to reach the country which issued their long-stay visa.
Furthermore, the text of the French initiative omits the problem of family reunion, a problem which arises in particular when citizens of the Union marry third-country nationals.
As Mr Deprez also highlighted, the legal basis of the proposal could have been envisaged in a different way so that it covered all aspects mentioned in these arrangements.
Mr President, I absolutely agree with Mr Deprez.
The fundamental principles of the Union are freedom, respect for democracy, human rights, and if you remove freedom of movement, if you stigmatise people because they have applied for a visa or they hold a particular type of visa, I believe you undermine the fundamental principles of the Union.
I congratulate Mr Deprez on an intelligent and reasoned approach, with measures that facilitate freedom of movement for third-country nationals on Member State territories for a maximum period of three months.
We should welcome it and therefore welcome his report.
Finally, perhaps this report will at some time enable us in this Chamber and in the Union to have a rational and reasonable debate on immigration and visa issues, decoupled from the ugliness of nationalism and xenophobia.
Finally, the Commission can confirm its intention of shortly presenting an overall proposal for legislation as regards the right to travel in the Schengen area to avoid fragmentary action that would not be conducive to transparency and clarity in the public mind or certainty as to the law.
The debate is closed.
The vote on the report will take place immediately after the votes on the topical and urgent subjects of major importance, which are about to begin.
We should like to thank the Fatuzzo family for their comments on the Deprez report.
The Deprez report rightly concludes that there is a lack of transparency and democratic control when it comes to visas and movement in Europe.
