Gerard Batten, Bastiaan Belder, Johannes Blokland, Godfrey Bloom, Jens-Peter Bonde, Graham Booth, Derek Roland Clark, Paul Marie Coûteaux, Nigel Farage, Hélène Goudin, Georgios Karatzaferis, Roger Knapman, Patrick Louis, Nils Lundgren, Michael Henry Nattrass, Kathy Sinnott, Jeffrey Titford, Philippe de Villiers, John Whittaker, Thomas Wise, Lars Wohlin and Vladimír Železný.
Umberto Bossi, Matteo Salvini, Mario Borghezio, Francesco Enrico Speroni, Dariusz Maciej Grabowski, Urszula Krupa, Bogdan Pęk, Mirosław Mariusz Piotrowski, Bogusław Rogalski, Witold Tomczak and Andrzej Tomasz Zapałowski. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I simply ask that it be recorded in the Minutes that Mr&#160;Bossi, Mr&#160;Borghezio, Mr&#160;Speroni and Mr&#160;Salvini object to the entirely irregular procedure that has been followed with regard to the subject of the communication presented just now by the President.
I was there, of course, as is clear from the minutes of the voting session, and, indeed, I contributed to the debate on the Cottigny report.
However, I should also like to thank the members of the two committees for their excellent work in studying and examining this programme.
In addition – and this is equally important – not only is provision made for the resources sought by the Commission in order to support the programme, but also its budget has been further increased.
I believe, as President Barroso also points out in his letter, that this approach cannot be justified, especially at a time when we want to bring Europe close to its citizens.
The Commission proposal for the programme is also reflected in the relevant budget.
That is why, at the present stage, the Commission will reject the amendments which promote the split into two programmes and, once we have the final outcome of the debate on the financial perspective, then we shall re-examine the matter.
I merely wish to emphasise, because there is no time and there are a great many amendments, that the Commission's position on each of the amendments will be circulated in writing and I would be obliged if it could be included in the Minutes of this debate(1).
I would remind you, of course, that many of them are being accepted, but those which are being rejected are mainly not being accepted because of the need for there to be, on the one hand, some priorities within the framework of the financial situation and, on the other hand, because of issues of subsidiarity, in other words so that we do not intervene in the competences of the Member States and, of course, so that we do not overlap and do not repeat actions which are covered by other Community policies and actions.
However, it also provided further proof of the value which Community action has in the field of public health.
The promotion of policies which result in a healthier lifestyle – health determinants.
Improving the effectiveness and efficacy of health systems: we need to examine jointly the health systems of the Member States in order to safeguard their compatibility, as this will allow them to perform better for the citizens of Europe.
Better information and knowledge, on the one hand, in order to develop health and, on the other hand, in order to incorporate the objectives of policies applied in the health sectors in other policies must be available to everyone, both those employed in the health professions and simple citizens.
Better medical practice which not only constitutes the most effective means of combating diseases, but also restricts further losses to our health.
The collection of data and the development of strategies for patient mobility, the further development of the electronic health card, mechanisms for the promotion of organ transplants, cooperation between the Commission and the Member States and with international organisations such as the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, are needed for there to be exchanges of opinions and for the promotion of health actions.
The element of coordination of the programme is, I think, material and instrumental to its success and certainly the open method of coordination can contribute to issues of subsidiarity through the strengthening of strategies in the health and healthcare sector, such as patient mobility.
It is more integral and, given also the experience which we have acquired, I believe that it will return comparatively better results.
At the moment we have an absurd budget of 0.15 cents per EU citizen – that is the total we spend each year on health in this European Union – and yet we have so many health threats, health challenges and health opportunities.
But the budget is a concern.
One of the greatest needs is the establishment of the effective running of the European Centre for Disease Control.
That must be a priority for us, but it must not be a priority which destroys the rest of our health work.
It is, therefore, important that we focus our work on areas where the EU can add value and make a real difference.
That is why the PSE Group has tried to ensure that we have real focus in the health programme.
We need a health programme that forms part of a health strategy for the European Union.
I get a lot of casework from people who still have problems with their health card.
The PSE Group does not support including a list of conditions in the report, because we feel we should be focusing on the health determinants.
We do not want to create a hierarchy of diseases and conditions, because many of these diseases and conditions are terrible for those who have them.
I hope it will come forward with a health strategy, I hope we will have focus in a future health programme.
The EU can also take measures in support of Member States’ policies.
I sometimes get the impression that the Commission and some of our fellow Members, too, would prefer to compete with national policies on health.
Top priority must be given to improving the exchange of information and to closer cooperation in coordinating the fight against epidemics and infectious diseases.
The same goes for HIV and Aids, a major problem in the new Member States in particular, and one which is increasingly being forgotten and neglected even though infection rates are rising.
My group has tabled amendments on this, for which I would again like to canvas your support.
Parliament’s December 2005 resolution on the work programme calls explicitly for measures to combat diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular diseases.
I would also like to say a few words about the budget and the funding of NGOs.
My Group supports the rapporteur’s proposal that the budget for the action programme be increased to EUR 1.2 billion.
Health heads the European public’s wish list, and we must give a very clear sign today that health policy is also a priority for us in the European Parliament, in the European Union, too.
If a billion euros a year are spent subsidising tobacco, then health policy must be worth the same amount.
We have millions of people in the European Union who have had very positive experiences with complementary and alternative medicine, not forgetting environmental medicine.
If the Commission is serious when it proclaims in Lisbon that we are an innovative society, then we must use the knowledge and innovation of alternative and complementary medicine, develop it and make it available to the people of the European Union.
We would therefore like to press Mr&#160;Trakatellis once again to accept our amendment as an additional clause in which we quite clearly say: work in this field should only continue postnatally and only where therapies are also available. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Trakatellis, I must congratulate you on the truly excellent job which you have done on such a complicated issue and agree with you on many counts, especially as regards the increase in the financing framework for the programme.
Cardiac diseases: first cause of death.
It is a fact that the rich members of our society enjoy direct and easy access, not only as regards information on health matters, but also as regards access to health services.
Consequently, we need to make a huge effort to include the needs of these groups and the organisations that represent them in our health systems.
Secondly, I should like to speak out in favour of Amendment 148 of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
One of the great advantages, however, of being a Member State of the European Union is having access to other Member States’ cooperation and knowledge base.
It matters in any field and, in this case, if public health, by reason of its scale or effects, can be better achieved through the cooperation of Member States, then this should be encouraged.
No one country can tackle this alone.
The European Union, through the experience of its Member States and experts and by virtue of this proposal, which has been greatly improved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, is rising to the challenge of assisting Member States in public health.
Further, and more specifically, I welcome the amendments regarding the inclusion of alternative medicine in the programme.
Better knowledge about complementary and alternative medicine can provide an important contribution to the ability of citizens to make better informed and responsible choices regarding their health. &#160;&#160; Mr President, many of the diseases that people in Europe suffer from today are more or less directly related to our lifestyle.
Most of the diseases people suffer from, even here in Europe, are not caused by a lack of available information.
I come from a border region with university hospitals in Maastricht, Liège and Aachen.
I also believe it to be important that this programme should extend into complementary alternative care and provision, and that more should be done for diseases such as cancer, diabetes and Parkinson’s. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, allow me to congratulate Mr Trakatellis on his willingness to cooperate.
The Community action plan in the field of health is an important text, in that it aims to safeguard effective prevention, improved health services and a better quality of life for everyone, something that is our primary political objective.
The basic priority of the programme is to combat inequalities in health by strengthening existing networks in the field of public health.
It is hugely important to develop strategies and exchange best practices in the aim of promoting the health of people with disabilities and providing reliable information in forms accessible to the disabled, who are one of the target groups of the programme.
Another basic priority is to safeguard the added value of Community actions in relation to national actions for health, in order to strengthen transnational cooperation in innovative sectors, such as telematics in medicine.
In the Commission’s new Community action programme in the field of health and consumer protection for 2007–2013 the Commission has emphasised the European Union’s important role in reducing the number of illnesses, that is – and I would emphasise this – in the field of serious diseases.
The decisions taken by the Council during the Irish Presidency were – and continue to be – a good start in our efforts to prevent cardiovascular diseases.
I therefore believe, like many others of my colleagues here, that in this legislative document cardiovascular diseases ought definitely to be mentioned too.
I should like to highlight, once again, one of the key issues that has already been raised and on which my group has tabled an amendment, namely the contribution of complementary and alternative medicine.
Improving people’s knowledge about complementary and alternative medicine can be an important way of enabling them to make more responsible and better informed choices about their health.
As Mrs Breyer has already set out, our group believes that the participation of civil society is vitally important to the formulation and implementation of European health policy.
At the same time, we need to recognise that non-communicable diseases are by far the greatest causes of the burden of disease and we need to put our resources where they will be most effective.
I also support the inclusion of complementary and alternative medicine in the action supported by the programme and I strongly support health as a separate programme from consumer protection.
The Community action programme in health has the potential to support the mainstreaming of health in all Community policies.
The EU is in a unique position to complement the work undertaken in Member States, to study the impact of other policies on health, to promote access to information, to improve the early detection evaluation and communication of risks and to make recommendations on best practice. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as a doctor I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that modern science is seeking the psychological basis of the majority of diseases defined as psychosomatic, ranging from obesity to circulatory problems and high blood pressure, as well as autoimmune diseases and tumours, and that a knowledge-based society, and particularly the legislators in the European Union, should be informed of this.
Community polities can also play an important role in the prevention of diseases and the protection of public health, not just in respect of those diseases defined as diseases of civilisation, but also of mental illness.
There are some striking differences between the healthcare systems of the EU Member States.
I appreciate the effort to include the protection of patient safety in the report.
The mass media are also in a position to contribute to improving the health status of the population.
We certainly cannot satisfy every desire of Europe’s citizens and institutions in a framework programme.
It is justified that Europe should devote attention to health, but Europe should only stir into action if there is a clearly added value to be had.
Nevertheless, Commissioner, I expect a great deal from your policy.
Alternatively, Commissioner, I invite you to plant yourself in the middle of the scrap between DG Industry and DG Environment on air quality, chemicals and plead strongly in favour of health.
Methods of treatment differ, access to health is unequal.
Prevention does not have the attention it deserves in all countries.
I would urge you, above all, not to collate statistics on the general health situation, but rather collect very practical information on the most important diseases, including cancer, rheumatism, diabetes, lung disorders and naturally heart and vascular diseases, and then assess where improvements can be made.
In that way, the European Union can make a worthwhile contribution.
We already have 260 signatures, and we need 80 more, so please let us have yours. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, health and consumer protection are two fields − as is shown repeatedly by each successive Eurobarometer − for which the people demand more of Europe, and therefore I must thank our two rapporteurs, Mr Trakatellis and, for this afternoon, Mrs Thyssen, who had the good sense to propose to us the splitting of the two programmes.
That is why I believe it is important to concentrate our efforts on the five to seven diseases that are the main causes of mortality in Europe.
Let us remember, after all, that it was launched in 2005 following the lightning spread of SARS two years ago.
However, it is in the relationship between public health and trade that Europe can make the biggest contribution in this area.
Diabetes is a good example of a disease that is under-funded in my wealthy constituency.
We have half a diabetic nurse post to cater for 250 people, when there should be one for 50 people in order to be effective.
Other experiences in the Irish health system have informed my reading of this report.
To conclude, Europe has a role to play in promoting health.
The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control was set up for this very purpose, in conjunction with the national reference laboratories.
Budget cuts are not good news and are indicative of shortcomings in the priorities of the EU’s political elite and of some MEPs.
Modern medicine provides people with a longer, higher-quality life, but this comes at an ever-higher cost – some 60 to 90% of the public purse.
The higher the proportion of Community funding for healthcare services, the less responsibility individual citizens take for their health.
For this reason I also support Amendment 64. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I should like, as other Members have done, to express my approval of the decision not to merge the health and consumer protection areas of the Community action plan within the field of health and consumer protection.
Quite apart from the different nature of the European Union’s competences in these two fields, health policy cannot be regarded as a consumer good.
I thank Mr Trakatellis for proposing a considerable increase in the budget allocation for this programme, an increase that is necessary if we are to see our objectives and actions brought to a successful conclusion.
More funding would have been preferable in view of the challenges to be faced, but we shall already have cause for a certain satisfaction if the Council agrees to increase the funding allocations for health within the context of the financial perspective for 2007–2013.
I wish to emphasise two priorities.
This ought to prompt the European Union, the Member States and the pharmaceutical laboratories to establish a system for monitoring and for research into these kinds of disease, which may be rare in terms of world population but are catastrophic at a local level.
My second priority is this: to achieve the objective of a better standard of health for all Europeans, we must take into account the impact of environmental and social living conditions on health.
If the Member States made rapid progress in these two areas, our people would feel a little more protected by the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I congratulate Mr Trakatellis on his report, which was excellent as expected.
The three main preventable curses affecting human health – tobacco, excessive alcohol and poor nutrition – are responsible for the premature deaths of millions of European citizens every year.
We build expensive hospital departments to treat patients suffering from serious diseases caused by smoking, and yet we tolerate many doctors working in such departments giving the worst possible example by smoking in public themselves.
The EC Treaty states that ‘a high level of human health protection should be ensured in the definition and implementation of all Community policies’.
This report is an important first step in making our citizens’ right to health protection, enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, a reality.
By mainstreaming health into all EU policies, by conducting extended health impact assessments and evaluations on all EU legislation and by promoting healthy lifestyles, the EU can provide the necessary platform for joined-up thinking across its Member States.
Complementary and alternative medicines, where scientifically substantiated, must be included in any Community action programme in the field of health.
The proliferation of EU agencies in the field of health – the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the European Food Safety Authority and others – is a very welcome and necessary development in tackling these health threats.
However, these bodies cannot function without a clear Community-level policy and the necessary designated financial resources to underpin them.
If the money is not secured in the budget and a preventive approach cannot be taken, the consequences, financial and otherwise, may be much greater.
At present we are a long way from that, however, not to mention the fact that we shall today be rejecting the Commission proposal for a joint action programme for health and consumer protection as totally unacceptable.
I cannot understand how even the Commission could propose such a low budget allocation or how the Council could cut it still further.
That would mean, however, that we would be completely unable to provide primary and secondary prevention of certain diseases or the urgently necessary protection against the risks of disease occasioned by globalisation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should, of course, like to start by congratulating Mr Trakatellis not only on his sterling report, but, above all, on the way in which he always had time for all Members, who were keen that their concerns should eventually be reflected in the report.
It is a very important report, because it formulates the Community action programmes in terms of public health for the next six years, which cannot be fleshed out by the individual Member States.
I think it is safe to say that the rapporteur has successfully managed to combine all relevant and specific aspects in such a vast, and at the same time sensitive, area as public health.
I am particularly delighted that for the first time, it is possible to include complementary and alternative medicine in the actions, as a result of which the public can make more informed and responsible choices in connection with their own health.
The action programme provides specific measures in the area of prevention, detection and raising awareness as well as in terms of information about serious diseases.
As a member of MAC, ‘MEPs against Cancer’, recently set up at the heart of Parliament, I can do no other than applaud these concrete steps.
The European Union can and must contribute towards protecting the health and safety of its citizens, particularly since the recent enlargement has increased the imbalance between Member States as regards healthcare.
The marked disparities in citizens’ average life expectancy, health and access to healthcare are closely related to the level of development of individual Member States.
Better information exchange on available medical services and the opportunity for having costs reimbursed on the territory of the European Union will also lead to the promotion of patient and healthcare specialist mobility, as the author of this very important report, Mr&#160;Trakatellis, correctly pointed out. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I have expressed quite a few views on the Commission’s health programme and kicked up a bit of a fuss.
I do think, however, that it is really commendable, and I therefore wish to thank not only Mr&#160;Kyprianou but also Mr&#160;Trakatellis.
First of all, there is the point of departure for this report, which is, and always must be, that the individual’s own commitment to his or her own health is what is most important.
That is precisely what is so unfortunate about the fact that the Social Democrats wish to remove the wordings designed to promote just such active involvement in our own health.
As Members of the European Parliament, we must also facilitate movement within and between countries so that everyone can seek the treatment and care they themselves most believe in.
For them, freedom of movement may be a matter of life or death.
We must also make efforts to ensure that we as decision-makers, together with those who implement the decisions and, in particular, those who use health services obtain better access to information from those services.
It is therefore very important that we look at the Community action programme in the field of health in an objective and distinctive way that focuses exclusively on this particular sector.
We want to see a programme that, on the one hand, brings the health systems of the various countries closer together and, on the other hand, helps every country achieve its own individual aims.
I cannot neglect also to mention the particular importance that needs to be given to cases of persons suffering from chronic diseases or from disabilities.
This programme will help reduce the imbalances in health care that exist from one EU country to another, so that every country enjoys a higher level of services.
Yes, we have a challenge before us, a challenge that must lead to our achieving effective prevention, a more efficient health service and a better quality of life. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank Mr Trakatellis for his excellent and thorough work.
This is a particularly important task in Hungary, where healthy life expectancy is ten years shorter than in the older Member States of the European Union.
Our most important task is to ensure prevention, which is also a priority of this programme.
Once more, I would like to say thank you, on behalf of all of us, to Mr Trakatellis for his thorough work, and I do hope that everything contained in this programme will be implemented. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to add my thanks to those already expressed to Mr&#160;Trakatellis, he has really worked very hard.
I would also like to express my thanks to the Commissioner, however, because the Commission is also working very hard, especially in the closely related field of bird flu.
I would also like to point out that problems surrounding Aids, cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular disease must remain on the agenda because they still represent major risks for our citizens.
But when you want to take other initiatives of coordination, of recommendations, or of exchange of best practices, then you need more money.
But the target should be that patients be offered a high level of treatment where they live, where their families are, where they speak the language.
That can be achieved through programmes of centres of reference, exchange of best practices, coordinating Member States, coordinating healthcare systems and working together and achieving the highest level of service.
As regards tobacco, I could not agree more, and I would be very happy if we ever have the opportunity to have a specific debate on the tobacco area.
As regards alcohol, I would like to remind you that by the end of this year, or some time after the summer, we will produce the Community strategy proposal for a European strategy on alcohol.
The Commission proposal does not deal with specific medicine as such.
In conclusion, I would like once again to thank Mr&#160;Trakatellis for the excellent job he has done, as well as the members of the committee.
The vote will take place today at voting time.
The Commission can accept Amendments 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 17, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 30, 34, 35, 36, 44, 51, 55, 59, 60, 61, 65, 66, 69, 70, 72, 78, 80, 84, 85, 86, 88, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 106, 108, 111, 113, 119, 120, 122, 123, 124, 126, 132, 135, 139, .
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 5, 33, 47, 54, 58, 64, 68, 82, 83, 89, 95, 96, 98, 104, 105, 112, 128, 130, .
The Commission rejects mainly on grounds of split or resources Amendments 1, 2, 3, 15, 18, 19, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 48, 49, 52, 53, 62, 74, 75, 76, 77, 87, 92, 93, 94, 97, 107, 109, 114, 117, 121, 125, 127, 129, 131, 133, 134, 136, 138, 140 and . (Amendments underlined are new amendments tabled by political groups on 8 March 2005.) &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0032/2006) by Mrs Thyssen, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a programme of Community action in the field of health and consumer protection (2007–2013 – consumer aspects (COM(2005) 0115 – C6-0225/2005 – 2005/0042B(COD)).
I would like to apologise in advance for repeating some things I have already said regarding the health part of the programme.
However, given that we are having separate debates, it is important to make some statements again in relation to the consumer programme.
The problem of the budget is again a similar one: a reduced budget means reduced policies and, again, it means less money for the Union of 27 – 25 plus 2 – than we had for the 15.
In the age of consumer protection, where we have to take strong initiatives, especially in the new Member States and the acceding Member States, this will cause serious problems and will of course affect the assistance we offer to consumer organisations, especially as regards funding of projects and training of staff.
Limited funds mean we have to re-evaluate and prioritise and decide where we actually want to concentrate, where we can achieve the greatest benefit.
On splitting the programmes, I have to repeat that I fully understand the position of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection in this respect.
As I said earlier, we believe that there would be some added value if we adhered to a merged programme, where we clearly distinguish between actions in health and in consumer protection; but we can benefit from having common areas and achieve better economies of scale.
On the conclusion of the debate on the financial perspectives, the Commission will review this issue again.
I count on Parliament’s support to ensure that consumer interests are given proper attention in many other key consumer policy initiatives.
The Community competences in each of these two areas are too dissimilar from one another.
At the same time, I am acutely aware that the extent of the budget and the fleshing out of the programme in terms of content are two sides of the same coin.
Since the three institutions are present today – and I assume that the Austrian Presidency is adequately represented – it is for that reason alone that I consider it useful today to argue in favour of keeping the budget as specified in the Commission proposal.
Accordingly, for consumer protection, we arrive at a sum of EUR 233 million spread over seven years.
The three budgetary authorities are asked to take this message literally.
I should like to thank my colleagues on the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, because they are right behind us on this, and also because we managed to confine ourselves to two major additional areas of concern at the Commission’s proposal which, incidentally, the Commissioner did an extremely good job of explaining. 1.
We want the proramming procedure to be more open to involving the Member States that do not have a long tradition of consumer protection, consumer movement, the capacity development of consumer associations and their participation in policy preparation. 2.
People knowledgeable in the area of consumer law know that we cannot adequately provide for these vulnerable groups in legislation, which, by definition, has a general scope, but in a consumer programme, we can focus on target groups and we can accommodate this vulnerable consumer, and that is what we must do if we want to move towards a warm and human society.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask your support for all of this, I also ask the Commission and the Council to support our proposal.
Mr President, allow me say a few words by way of conclusion.
That is my suggestion as rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Mrs Thyssen, your request for a postponement of the vote will be put to the House in a moment, right at the beginning of the voting session, by the Vice-President who takes my place. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to mention the very situation that Mrs Thyssen has rightly raised.
On one point, at any rate, I fully support Mrs Thyssen’s suggestion: the vote should be postponed to a time when Members can actually be here. &#160;&#160; I quite understand, Mr Rack, but I must point out that it is at the request of the rapporteur herself, who, as I understand it, cannot be here this afternoon, that we have decided to begin the debate on this report this morning.
In the context of past and present health crises, or in that of globalisation, which no longer guarantees the traceability of all products, European consumer protection policy, therefore, takes on its full meaning.
The internal market cannot indeed function properly without the confidence of consumers.
By demonstrating to Europeans that it is genuinely concerned for their health and safety and that it is really equipping itself with the means to take action, the European Union can improve political clarity for them.
The Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection (IMCO) has proposed a budget of EUR 233 million spread over seven years specifically for the ‘consumer protection’ action; this budget, which is an increase by comparison with the current programme, is essential if the objectives are to be achieved, ambitious as they are given the new obligations that enlargement entails.
Let us hope that these actions will not be affected by drastic cuts in the event of a minimum financial perspective because what European consumers need is a budget that is able to deliver on the policies that they expect in response to their anxieties.
We must also celebrate the fact that the leaders of the European Parliament have decided to separate the consumer rights protection document from the health protection document.
However, the separation of the document still does not mean the actual separation of these problems.
If control of these two systems is not divided, both of these areas will be run by the same agency.
It is perfectly clear that with the expansion of the internal market it becomes practically impossible for an individual state to implement consumer rights protection without cooperating closely with other EU Member States.
Firstly, I do not believe that we need a separate consumer programme for new Member States.
The Commission can accept Amendments 13, 26, 28, 34, 35, 42, 43, 44, 47, 48 and 54.
The Commission rejects Amendments 14, 17, 36, 37, 38, 39, 49, .
The Commission rejects on grounds of split Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 15, 18, 19, 20, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 40, 45, 46, 51, 52, 53 and .
The Commission rejects/can accept consumer content in: Amendments 8, 12 and 16.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 33 as there is a need for reformulation. (Amendments underlined are new amendments tabled by political groups on 8&#160;March 2005.) &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, before the vote, I would like to announce an important statement by our Conference of Presidents.
The Conference of Presidents regrets these measures, which massively call into question the democratic nature of the elections and are contrary to all democratic principles.
With your permission, I will read the 17 names aloud, because we can only expect and hope that this will have any effect if they are mentioned by name here in the European Parliament.
They are the following persons: Siarhiej Malčyk Viktar Sazonau Vadzim Sarančukou Andrej Pisalnik Mikoła Lemianouski Alaksiej Trubkin Siaržuk Hudzilin Jauhien Vaukauviec Aleś Čyrejka Vital Brouka Vasil Leučanka Tatsiana Klimovič Dzimitry Šymanski Ryhor Bakijevič Anatol Labiedźka Siarhiej Niarouny Vincuk Viačorka Four further persons have been arrested in Pinsk, including Mr Pavieł Lachnovič, and a further six persons in Svietłahorsk.
The Conference of Presidents calls for these persons’ immediate release. &#160;&#160; ( Ladies and gentlemen, the people of Belarus have begun a silent protest against the dictatorial regime entrenched in their country by lighting candles in their homes on the 16th day of every month.
Candlelight symbolises hope for a new life and a new beginning, for freedom and democracy.
Since not even the shadow rapporteurs of most groups have taken the floor, and out of respect for my fellow Members, I should like to ask you, since it makes little sense to vote before the end of a debate, not to vote on this now, but instead to continue the debate this afternoon, and to vote on it at next week’s part-session in Brussels.
Since it is a codecision report, we cannot run the risk of voting on it with a very small number of people present and must ensure that as many people as possible can take part. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have just heard from Commissioner Kyprianou that he is not prepared to accept the Committee’s proposals concerning the differentiation between health protection and consumer protection and that he also does not agree with what we are going to propose concerning the scope.
It would therefore be very good if we could express the European Parliament’s opinion on these questions with a clear, large and qualified majority.
As Chairman of the Bureau of the IND/DEM Group I would like to say the following.
The Independence and Democracy Group in the European Parliament consists of 33 Members from 10 EU Member States.
This composition of the Independency and Democracy Group was confirmed at the IND/DEM Group meeting on 14 March this year.
The new list of IND/DEM members submitted to the President includes the names of seven Poles, but unfortunately we were not given the opportunity to sign it, in my opinion deliberately.
For this reason, as Chairman of the Bureau of the IND/DEM Group, I demand that the Group’s funds be frozen until the situation has been clarified and set out in writing. &#160;&#160; That is noted, but disputes within political groups are not a subject for debate in plenary. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have an oral amendment, which I have cleared with the rapporteur and my fellow shadow rapporteurs, to add the word ‘traceability’ to Amendments 120 and 138.
These are the amendments that form part of the package of amendments by the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this brief amendment requires a short explanation.
On 30&#160;June&#160;2005, the Conference of Presidents decided, however, to split this programme once again.
Against this backdrop, the report before us in Parliament today broadens these powers and proposes to increase both overall funding, and specific funding for measures to be pursued.
We are aware that it will still fall well short of what is required to satisfy demand and the interest aroused by this programme, yet we voted in favour of the report, as it improves considerably on the Commission’s proposal. &#160;&#160; The report recommends that the EU set up a separate Community programme in the field of health for the period 2007–2013.
Quite a few of the objectives that the rapporteur would have the programme include for example, that of combating ill health caused by tobacco, alcohol and poor diet are ones that the Member States can pursue independently.
Obviously, international cooperation is necessary in connection with, for example, viral epidemics and complex medical issues.
International cooperation should, however, mainly take place through multilateral agreements and within the framework of the work already being done by the World Health Organisation (WHO).
We are opposed to appropriating additional resources for this purpose and, on the basis of the above-noted reasoning, have chosen to vote against this report. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of this text.
One of the great advantages of the European Union lies in the exchange of data, and particularly in the area of rare diseases.
This programme of action is also an opportunity to consider patient mobility.
Finally, there is one point that I cannot support: that is, complementary or alternative medicine.
The objectives of the programme protect citizens against health threats, promote policies that lead to a healthier way of life and contribute to the development of more effective and efficient health systems.
Bridging the gaps between existing differences in Member States' health services, in combination with synergy between the national health services, should be acknowledged as an important aspect of the programme. &#160;&#160; – I voted in favour of Recital 3b (new) on the definition of the duration of a healthy life, even though I consider that the English version of the text is wrong, in my opinion, to use the phrase 'disability-free life expectancy indicator', unlike the Greek translation, which presents no such problem.
I agree with the thrust of the Commission proposal and shall be voting in favour of the Graefe zu Baringdorf report.
The report before us introduces a great many simplifications and clarifications, in relation to procedures and the responsibilities of the different authorities involved in examining applications submitted.
This instrument is important because not only does it mean that products are accorded their due value, but also because consumers are protected against unfair practice, thereby ensuring that trade is pursued fairly.
I am, however, opposed to the EU’s deciding about compulsory labelling for these goods.
That is a matter that, in the future too, should be voluntary. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a Council regulation on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs because it was becoming urgent to adapt our system of protection for producers of regional specialities to the constraints of the World Trade Organisation, as the negotiations in Hong Kong (China), in December last year, have demonstrated.
We have to give better access for nationals from third countries to the European system and give them equal rights with citizens of the European Union in terms of making requests or objections.
That being said, the EU has been forced to improve market access for third countries.
However, that makes it necessary to regulate these products, which go out into the world rather as ‘ambassadors’ for a town or region.
In the context of the need to amend regulations, and in light of the WTO’s ruling in arbitration, this report improves these instruments, which have made a significant contribution to market access at higher prices, and have served to create jobs in rural areas of Europe.
Furthermore, there have been very positive socio-economic effects for tourism-related activities.
Port wine and Roquefort cheese are European products that set the standard around the world.
Naturally, it is important to set out clearly what information is to be provided to the consumer, not only in order to protect these products but also to provide the right to raise objections.
The European Parliament’s two reports on this subject are only supplementary proposals in accordance with the consultation procedure.
We believe that, on this particular issue, we must rely on the authorities in the Member States.
As you know, our Group has strongly advocated starting accession negotiations with Croatia and bringing them to a successful conclusion before the 2009 European elections.
On behalf of my Group, I would like to say that we stand by that objective unequivocally and that it is quite clear from the Brok report that Croatia is an accession candidate that meets the criteria exceptionally well.
Croatia is a Central European country that really ought to have been accepted into the European Union in 2004 and which largely satisfies the criteria.
I would therefore once again like to make it absolutely clear on behalf of my Group that Croatia is a candidate for accession.
It is time the truth finally dawned on the last of the starry-eyed supporters of enlargement that we must set clear European limits. &#160;&#160; Mr President, like most of my British Conservative delegation colleagues, I voted in favour of Mr Brok’s excellent report and I congratulate him.
Nevertheless, my party opposes the Constitutional Treaty for the European Union and therefore we voted to delete paragraph 6, as it is clear that the current wave of enlargement from 15 to 25 Member States has worked extremely well under the Nice formula, without an EU Constitution.
British Conservatives believe that the previous five waves of enlargement have been a success story, as will the accession of Romania and Bulgaria, in all probability scheduled now for 1&#160;January 2007.
We as Conservatives believe in a wider, looser European Union of cooperating nation states, hence our overall support for Mr&#160;Brok’s excellent report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to state separately that I voted in favour of Amendment 13 in Mr&#160;Brok’s resolution, which calls for the racist and anti-Semitic Grey Wolves organisation to be declared illegal.
The organisation is responsible for repeated terror attacks on Christian and Jewish institutions in Turkey.
This group terrorises people just as Hitler’s gangs did before he came to power; not on such a large scale, but with the same arrogance and using some of the same methods.
We therefore regret the fact that the report focuses too much on the EU’s own capacity for absorption, because it can give the impression that the European Parliament questions the EU’s ability to include more Member States.
The EU’s own capacity for absorption is ultimately dependent on the EU’s willingness to include more Member States.
We also view with concern the widespread inclination to exclude countries from membership on the basis of, for example, their economic situations. &#160;&#160; – We MEPs of Nea Dimokratia would clarify that the second part of paragraph 43 of the report does not express our views on this specific matter. &#160;&#160; This own-initiative report discusses the important issue of the EU’s continued enlargement.
From out of the fug of ‘political correctness’, the true objectives of such a race always emerge, namely the establishment of a free trade area and the sharing of natural resources in exchange for practical incentives; in other words, economic domination and exploitation of these people and their countries by the large economic and financial groups from the major EU powers, with Germany at the front of the queue.
That would be an historic setback. &#160;&#160; – The report, the Council and Commission decisions and the debate in the European Parliament coincide with the 7th anniversary of the dirty US-ΝΑΤΟ-ΕU war against Yugoslavia and the organised murder of Milosevic.
The Kommounistiko Komma Elladas, repeating its position against the ΕU and its enlargement, will help to galvanise the fight of the peoples against the European and American imperialism that imposed the occupation of the area.
For the FYROM, it repeats that the problem relates to imperialist interventions and border changes, with the stirring up, also, of minority issues, actions on which Nea Dimokratia, Panellinio Socialistiko Kinima and Synaspismos have kept quiet or consented to in the past, focusing their attention on the name of the neighbouring country.
The prospect of accession and the neighbourhood policy have helped in the democratisation and development of potential candidate countries, but that in itself is not sufficient.
The EU must also be ready to welcome new partners and this must form part of a drive to guarantee the same conditions for those who join, as opposed to a selfish approach on the part of those who are already members.
Enlargement ‘reunions’ with our brothers in Europe – Bulgarians, Romanians, Croats, Macedonians and others, arbitrarily separated from us after Yalta.
A Europe without borders is of no use to those who want a European power.
Among many other modifications and aspects that could be expanded, I wish to highlight that the new Council has a reduced number of countries, down from 53 to 47 (the USA wanted 30).
One of the UN's biggest shortcomings on human rights has always been the lack of legitimacy of some of its Human Rights Commission members, especially when they have chaired it.
Lastly, previous resolutions on the issue must be taken on board, particularly regarding the fight against the illegal felling of trees and the trade in those trees. &#160;&#160; I voted against the resolution on the Curitiba conference on biodiversity.
In 2004, nine million small farmers cultivated almost 90&#160;million hectares of GMOs in the world, while in the European Union of 25, 11&#160;million small farmers cultivated 97&#160;million hectares, of which some tens of thousands consisted only of transgenic crops.
We also agree with many of the proposals, except for those which are referred to within the framework of the existing legal order, because in many states, as in Member States of the ΕU, these things are happening legally.
For example, the use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in agricultural production and in the production of foods which threaten the environment and biodiversity was liberalised under Community regulations.
My group, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, is completely satisfied with the resolution that was approved by a very, very large majority of the European Parliament and it is completely satisfied also that Parliament is sending to the eighth Conference on biodiversity, three years after Kuala Lumpur, a delegation that will defend the protection of biodiversity.
Consequently, we call on the Council of the European Union, which will be present, to support the moratorium that is currently in place on trials and commercialisation of genetically modified varieties in order to restrict their use.
We know very well that, in the case of Natura 2000, if the European Union does not allocate money to this network, biodiversity will not be protected.
Although it has been adopted unanimously within the parliamentary committee responsible, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has asked for a debate on this report.
In fact, even if the groups as a whole agree in good faith to afford the highest political priority to consumer protection, I can see that there are still differences of opinion about the right way to go about it.
First of all, I should like to remind you of our support for separating the two action plans, for public health and for consumer protection.
Next, in relation to the horizontal objectives of the plan, the Socialist Group considers that the means of redress, both for individuals and for groups, available in some Member States, constitute real progress for consumers.
Next, with regard to the specific actions of the programme, I should like to highlight the importance of the following: the development of tools to enable scientific assessment of the effects on consumers of exposure to chemicals released from products; the compilation of an inventory, what one might call a , of the existing legislation, regulations and practices in the Member States in relation to consumer protection and including an assessment of the implementation of Community legislation at national level; and exchanges between national and local consumer associations in order to assist public authorities to make legislation at a European level in matters concerning the protection of users in the field of services of general economic interest, and that is the meaning of our Amendment 58.
In my view, while our fellow citizens’ mobility is increasing, I consider that the role of European public authorities is to ensure the best possible protection for consumers.
These are the comments that I wished to make on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, because we had so much to do this morning, this debate has been rather delayed, and it is unfortunate that the rapporteur and many others who have worked on this issue cannot be in the Chamber.
We must therefore go further and also create an internal market for consumers.
It is therefore really excellent that the Commission has put forward this proposal for a long-term multiannual programme in the field of consumer protection.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe does not, however, agree with the Commission about the need to combine consumer protection and public health.
Other important elements we are delighted to see included in the proposal include the views that consumer policy needs to be integrated into all policy, that it is important to cooperate with the various consumer organisations in our Member States and that additional support and attention might be given to those states that have not yet managed to make much progress in the field of consumer protection.
I am delighted that we have been able to agree on these matters and that there is a broad consensus among the groups regarding them.
I hope that, in the future too, there will be constructive cooperation when it comes to the consumer programmes that the Commission is to present this autumn.
Perhaps we really should have proceeded the other way round and first dealt with the major policy guidelines and then this programme, but what is done is done.
No doubt European countries should learn from each other and from non-European countries by adopting international best practice on a national basis, selecting that which is best suited for their particular needs.
That kind of information-gathering on the citizen is not something that should be undertaken by the state; certainly not in the form as represented by the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Community action programme in the field of healthcare and consumer protection for 2007-2013 defines the way in which the EU intends to improve healthcare and boost consumer confidence by applying the provisions of the Treaty.
The joint strategy in the field of consumer protection in the European Union is a collection of actions such as better understanding of consumers and markets, better consumer protection regulations, improved means of implementing the law, monitoring and settling claims, and better provision of information to and education of consumers.
The time has come for human health and wellbeing to become the highest value of all, so that humanity may benefit. &#160;&#160; Mr President, contrary to the opinion that prevails in many economic circles, consumer protection has nothing to do with protectionism.
The Commission’s attitude in this field is strangely contradictory.
But those overdrafts are the consequence of our consumer society and a life on credit, with the budgetary policies of many EU Member States setting the example.
Perhaps then we would have real consumer protection. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I&#160;would like to thank Mrs&#160;Thyssen for her work on this report, which has not been particularly easy.
I fully support the rapporteur’s justification as to why the action programme in the field of consumer protection cannot be integrated with the programme for public health protection.
By separating these programmes, the two policies, both of which are very important to our citizens, will gain in significance.
Despite the fact that the original European Union, and also the new Member States, are now paying more attention to consumer issues, we should not be complacent about the current situation.
We, the 450 million citizens of Europe, are directly affected by issues ranging from the safety of the goods that we buy and our trust in retailers to on-line shopping and advertising.
The Community action programme for consumer protection in the period 2007–2013 provides an important framework for achieving equilibrium in the internal market, meeting consumer needs and requirements, and creating a balanced and proper relationship between consumers and businesses.
The date set for the debate on this report is symbolic, as 15&#160;March is World Consumer Rights Day.
By approving this report we will send a&#160;message that the European Parliament considers it a priority to create in Europe a&#160;decent and just society for consumers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, like many or almost all of the Members who have spoken before me, I, too, would again like to stress that it is not sensible to combine consumer protection and public health in a joint action programme.
We need two different action programmes, because a very large number of very different questions are discussed and dealt with here.
As regards consumer protection, I would like to say that it is very important – that is why I would also like to urge you to pay great attention, in Parliament’s motion, which I hope will be accepted as it stands, to the fact that we are especially supportive of consumer protection organisations in particular.
Citizens have repeatedly told us that consumer protection is what they want.
For that reason, my Group is also particularly concerned that we should get harmonised consumer protection legislation in the field of services of general economic interest.
These are the things that concern our citizens, what they need and what they want. &#160;&#160; Mr President, international cooperation in the field of consumer protection pursues the goal of protecting against risk and increasing the opportunities available to citizens to make their own choices.
It results in better quality of life for EU citizens by increasing safety and confidence in products on the internal market.
The Solvit system is of great importance in this respect, since it is a mechanism for serving consumers that already exists.
Consumer protection policy must also be implemented through consumer organisations.
Such organisations are active in the majority of Member States, but their budgets and scope for action are often limited, especially in the new Member States.
Consumer protection faces very specific challenges both in the new and old Member States, which are totally independent of health issues.
On the one hand, together with market integration, consumer protection, too, must extend beyond goods to include services.
Such situations are quite usual these days, and they only reflect the normal operation of our internal market.
And yet, within the current legal frameworks, it is not only difficult to guess which consumer protection regulation of which country is applicable at any given time, but even the competence of the various possible authorities is difficult to determine, especially for the consumer.
Like industry, our legal system and institutions also need innovation.
In order to accomplish this work, we need independent resources, excellent and versatile specialists, and I am convinced that it is in the joint interest of the 450 million European consumers that the Consumer Protection Agency becomes an independent pole of excellence.
I would like to thank them for the very interesting debate we had, and now we have the advantage of having them split into two parts, but I still think the issues raised here today were very interesting.
Nevertheless, especially on the issue of the new Member States, I agree that there is a need for priority, not so much having a separate strategy – and this has already been described in the morning session – but rather giving priority and emphasis and focusing on the newest Member States, at least those where the consumer protection tradition is less apparent than in other Member States.
Again, I am not sure if inclusion or specific provision in the programme is the best way to achieve this; nevertheless, in specific actions, in specific initiatives and legislation, we should take into account the particular needs of vulnerable groups, children for example.
It will actually operate from the practical accounting management aspect, so it will free the resources we have in the Commission actually to promote and propose policies.
One point on the consumer protection area in general is that we should always bear in mind the benefits of offering consumer protection, not just for the consumers, not just for the protection of the citizen, but also the benefits that increased consumer confidence will have on the internal market, the economic growth that this will promote and, of course, the competitiveness of the European economy.
Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the members of the committee for their strong support of this programme, and I am looking forward to working with them in the consumer protection area in the following period. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The situation is of great concern, not just because of the violation of the human rights of the citizens of this region, but also because it continues to be a source of conflict and instability between Moldova and Ukraine.
In 1999 Russia undertook to withdraw its troops stationed on Moldovan territory in Transnistria by the end of 2002.
Transnistria is one of the most industrialised areas of Moldova.
The Transnistrian regime, supported by the former Red Army, is a blatant example of disregard for people, citizens and their rights.
The Russian Government’s promises to withdraw its army have yet again proved to be a political ploy made without any respect for political partners, including the Member States of the European Union.
As Mrs Ferrero-Waldner is present, I will also again point out that the way she behaved towards Parliament in this matter was extremely unfortunate and a considerable violation of the rights of European parliamentarians themselves.
There are still Russian troops there, outside Russian territory, 15 years after the break-up of the Soviet Union.
The regime that is living on those troops in Transnistria can then become a democratic part of Moldova instead.
The poverty in the country has greatly encouraged the trafficking of women, and that is another reason why it should also become part of the neighbourhood policy towards Moldova. &#160;&#160; , . – Mr President, the dictatorship of the self-appointed authorities in Transnistria, characterised by severe repression and ideological backwardness, has aroused great concern in Europe.
Brutal arrests, inhuman detention conditions and a lack of freedom of speech or assembly are facts of everyday life in this region, and cannot be tolerated in today’s Europe.
The Moldovan authorities must continue their efforts to establish a stable and independent judiciary, as well as political pluralism in their country.
We should express our concern about the human rights situation in Transnistria, where people do not have the right to hold democratic elections, where harassment, repression and intimidation of the independent media, human rights defenders, NGOs and opponents to the self-proclaimed regime is common practice.
In addition, we should express our support for the Moldovan and Ukrainian authorities working to stabilise the situation in the region and free it from corruption, smuggling, etc.
I call on the Commission and the Council to support the Moldovan authorities in their democratic reform process and use all diplomatic means available to solve the Transnistria conflict. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, the so-called Moldovan Republic of Transnistria, which covers one fifth of the territory of the independent state of Moldova and the majority of its industry, is being recognised as a state despite international opposition.
I urge you to pay attention to the violations of human rights, media restrictions and the populist-authoritarian system in Transnistria, which flies the flag of the former Soviet Republic of Moldova.
The new political initiative of President Igor Smirnov and the international youth corporation Proryv is modelled on Nashi, the pro-Putin youth movement in Russia.
Proryv is an extreme populist organisation whose aim is not to allow democratic changes in Transnistria.
The European Union must take a closer interest in the situation in Transnistria from the viewpoint of human rights and democratic development in this part of Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, today we have talked a great deal about Belarus, and I should like to speak out in defence of the country.
This situation does not prevail in the Republic of Moldova either, but we welcome that country’s efforts to move towards full democracy and, in time, the European Union.
The conflict between Transnistria and Moldova is proceeding in the shadow of Russian interests.
That is when the joke turns sour. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the only reason why the territory of present-day Moldova will not be joining the European Union next year or the year after is that the country was forcibly detached from Romania under the Hitler-Stalin pact.
It is a deeply European country and we must make intense efforts to bring about three things.
I am very grateful here to our fellow Member Albert Deß as the representative of a border region of Upper Palatinate, who is vehement in urging us to fight, jointly as a European Union, against trafficking in drugs, human beings and arms, which originates with this criminal structure in Transnistria; that is in the interests of this beautiful country on the eastern edge of Central Europe, which needs to be integrated because otherwise it will fester like a wound between Romania, which is soon to be a Member State, and Ukraine, with which we have entered into a more intensive partnership since the orange revolution there.
The process of democratisation in this region that is so important for our own destiny will only succeed if this militaristic, tyrannical structure finally makes way for a democracy based on the rule of law.
This is our duty as the European Parliament, and I am therefore grateful to Mr Sonik and others for getting this debate held.
With my colleagues the Foreign Ministers of Ukraine and Moldova, we have succeeded in putting this in place.
By the way, we have achieved some progress because the Russians did in fact accept the ‘five plus two’ talks to which we, the European Union, together with the United States of America, have been invited as observers in order to find a settlement.
I not only wrote a letter to Mr Klich yesterday, I also spoke to him; he understood completely.
I am coming to my third point, which concerns today’s debate on the resolutions on breaches of human rights in Moldova.
The motion for a resolution draws attention to the failures of the judicial system to secure fair trials.
So far as the Pasat case – the case of the former Defence Minister – is concerned, the Commission has raised the problems surrounding this case several times.
However, it is clear that there are very significant problems.
The Commission will follow the development of these negotiations very carefully.
The recent reports that Andrei Ivantoc, one of the two prisoners, has begun a hunger strike underline the need for the immediate release of both prisoners.
The Commission is working with all the partner countries, including Russia, Ukraine and Moldova, in order to achieve a withdrawal of the Russian troops, the demilitarisation of Transnistria, the democratisation of Moldova – including Transnistria – and the establishment of effective and legal control of Transnistria by Moldova proper. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
In foreign policy, we cannot pursue narrow economic interests and under no circumstances can we allow the violation of human rights.
It is not that we do not care about Kazakhstan or that we think that nothing is wrong there; of course, we worry, but in the last term of office, this House accepted a strict resolution on Kazakhstan, one which both this Parliament and the Government of Kazakhstan took seriously at the time.
We worry again today, but what is striking now compared to the previous resolution on the situation in Kazakhstan, is the fact that the government, the President, is at least trying to introduce transparency, in the sense that in relation to killings, or matters that can be called into question, there is in any event every opportunity for foreign observers to watch what is happening.
One thing is for sure.
Something is brewing in Kazakhstan, that is true, but that does mean that you cannot assess the situation in the right manner, and we think that in that light, this resolution is premature at the moment.
Another reason is that whilst we do not think that everything is wonderful, we do see for the first time that in sensitive areas, where people may have been killed and people have definitely been killed, although the circumstances or perpetrators are unknown, there is a willingness to show what is happening, how the process is drawing to a close.
It is these points we should like to highlight in order to strengthen the relationship that we in the European Union have with Kazakhstan.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats propose, then, that we should make use of the cooperation between the parliamentary delegations.
The parliamentary delegation from Kazakhstan will be visiting Brussels in May, during which we will have an opportunity to discuss all these issues as fellow-parliamentarians.
We in the PPE-DE Group would like to see some progress in relation to the countries in Central Asia.
As for Kazakhstan, we must clearly debate the topic of partnership to find out whether we can team up in those areas in which we cooperate well.
I should in any event like to congratulate the Commissioner on the sound information we have received from her representative in Almaty on this score, which we greatly appreciated.
As far as the vote is concerned, although we have contributed to this resolution, for not doing so is excluding ourselves from the game in hand, we did apply for five split votes, the outcome of which will determine whether we will back this resolution or not.
In short, although we have concerns, we would like to talk these over with our Kazakh colleagues on amicable terms to see whether we can take a few steps forward in relation to democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, just a brief word.
This lunchtime, Mrs Pleštinská said that people are putting candles in their windows in Slovakia and many other countries today as a sign of solidarity with the opposition and the freedom movement in Belarus.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the political opposition in Kazakhstan is protesting against the murder of Altynbek Sarsenbayev, the former minister and ambassador who joined the opposition in 2003 and started criticising the political system under President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
I would also like to point out that the organisation Reporters without Borders has accused the Kazakh authorities of Internet censorship and restricting freedom of expression in traditional media.
On 15 December last year, the security forces searched the offices of the weekly after it published a letter signed by the head of the Election Commission stating that electoral fraud had taken place to some extent in the 4 December presidential elections.
Some politicians with Communist pasts may have abandoned their ideology, but are for that very reason now even less hindered than before in their manoeuvring to remain in power for the long haul or to transfer state power to their offspring.
One of those sleights of hand is to extend the term in office of presidents in power by ten years or even to the end of his life by means of a referendum without the option of putting forward one or two rival candidates.
These two murders have exacerbated the situation.
In reality, the European Parliament is not demanding a lot: only that Kazakhstan obey its own constitution and that court decisions be required in connection, for example, with arrests.
The FBI has been invited to take part in the investigations of the murders, and we should ensure that other international bodies too be allowed to study information concerning these crimes so that we have some grasp, and clarification of, the investigation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Kazakhstan is an important country with a great history, and one of the largest countries in Europe – yes, Europe, because about 150 000 km2 of its territory is within the geographical borders of our continent.
The country is by no means a model of democracy, but in fairness it must be said that the authorities there are doing a great deal to democratise public life and, above all, to bring the country closer to Western values and to modernise it.
I welcome the fact that President Nazarbayev has called in the FBI to track down the culprits, and his statement of 21&#160;February on punishing the perpetrators.
Of course there are still concerns regarding democracy and human rights in Kazakhstan.
As the rapporteur for the European Neighbourhood Policy, I have suggested including Kazakhstan in that policy.
This follows a tradition in which it was the European Parliament that first raised the question of such a status for the three Caucasus republics, which was duly granted by the Council in due course.
The EU must extend every help to this vast, under-populated, geopolitically key country and we in the PPE-DE Group will not support the biased joint text unless our amendments are carried. &#160;&#160; Mr President, allow me to speak in my own language.
It is true that, geographically, part of Kazakhstan is in Europe, but everybody knows that this country still has a lot to learn in terms of acquiring democratic credentials.
We should not therefore allow Kazakhstan’s wealth and the fact that the country is an ally against terrorism to delude us into thinking that there need be no controls whatsoever on its conduct. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, up until now Kazakh President Nasarbayev has acted according to the old proverb ‘keep your friends close and your enemies even closer’ and tried to include them in his regime.
It is perhaps also worth considering following the US lead and making financial and economic assistance more dependent on progress being made in the areas of democracy and civil and human rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is now a month since the prominent politician Sarsenbayev was brutally murdered, and I believe now is the right time to hold an urgent debate here on the situation in Kazakhstan.
Two prominent opposition politicians have been murdered in the space of three months and the political climate has greatly deteriorated.
Indeed, it is the most important of these countries and it is also rich in energy supplies and therefore it is being courted by many countries today.
On a positive note, I would like to welcome Kazakhstan’s ratification of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in January this year.
His murder points towards a very dangerous trend of criminalisation in Kazakh politics.
We are also following very closely the investigation into the murder of Oksana Nikitina, the daughter of another prominent member of the opposition.
I would also like to mention the two essential issues of media freedom and restrictions on civil society.
In particular I think that the Kazakh authorities will reconsider their refusal to register the opposition political parties Alga and True Ak Zhol.
The trials of Pinochet or Milosevic, though imperfect and sadly incomplete, are clear indications of the direction things should take in Africa as well.
Names such as Charles Taylor, Mengistu Haile Mariam and Hissène Habré, amongst others, must be added to the list of ex-dictators who must answer to national and international justice.
Unfortunately, however, a lack of resources, and in some cases of political will and of capacity, mean that these tribunals are often inefficient and insufficient.
We must therefore remember that, without an International Criminal Court to establish individual responsibility as a mechanism for applying the law, acts of genocide and flagrant violations of human rights will often go unpunished.
I need only remind you of Charles Taylor from Liberia or Mengistu Haile Mariam from Ethiopia.
African Dictators have ruled with extreme violence, suppressed their own people and maintained their positions of power through torture, murder and tyranny.
What all of them also have in common is that they have found refuge in other African countries unpunished and have nowhere been called to account.
That is the very thing we can no longer accept, however, because the victims and their families have been fighting for a long time for a trial at which the despots will have to face up to their responsibility.
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe there are several possible ways of bringing Hissène Habré to court.
The most realistic is his extradition to Belgium, since he could quickly be examined by a fair court in Europe.
The International Criminal Court might also take on the case.
An ad hoc African court, on the other hand, will require a tremendous amount of political will and is probably scarcely possible without an enormous amount of money, time and administrative effort.
The many victims demand it. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, we in Europe are dismayed that survivors of the genocide orchestrated by Slobodan Milosevic could not see him convicted in the Hague.
Their names are: Hissène Habré, Charles Taylor, Mengistu Haile Mariam and Robert Mugabe.
The lawyer advocated his extradition to Belgium, where a court is seeking him at the request of the victims.
Hopefully, as a result, Portuguese politicians will use their influence and seek an end to impunity for all of these criminals in Africa. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, African states do not owe their origins to the African people themselves, but to European colonisation.
Only by horrific means can they keep their unstable states together.
The situation in Rwanda is not completely comparable.
The long-term continuation of the present situation – for indeed we must take into account the possibility of this situation continuing for the foreseeable future – continues to feed an age-long feeling of mutual hatred.
It is imperative that infamous people like Charles Taylor, Colonel Mengistu and Chad’s devious exiled former President Hissène Habré face trial in an internationally recognised court of law in respect of the atrocities and crimes against humanity they have allegedly carried out.
But we are also specifically discussing the case of the former dictator of Chad.
The US and France backed Habré for a long time, because they saw his regime as a bulwark against Gaddafi.
During Ronald Reagan’s period of office, Habré received massive military aid as well as paramilitary aid through the CIA.
If that fails, Habré should be handed over to the Belgian authorities to put an end to the impunity of a bloody dictator. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today’s debate on human rights violations relates to the impunity of various former heads of African states accused of dictatorship and of barbaric methods of rule.
The matter raised in Parliament’s resolution relates specifically to the former President of the Republic of Chad, Hissène Habré, who is responsible for 40&#160;000 political murders and 200&#160;000 cases of torture.
However, the resolution also names other dictators from Libya and Ethiopia, and examples cited include the conflicts in Sierra Leone, Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of Congo, where three million people have died during the six-year conflict.
An analysis of the political situation in Africa leads one to ask questions about the causes of the conflicts between African ruling elites and the masses of their compatriots who are subjected to such inhuman treatment.
As in the majority of colonised societies, in Africa too the elites were formed under the influence of European models and Communist interference, which was decisive in shaping the administrative and intellectual character of the elites who came to power.
The Commission is committed to fighting impunity by all means at its disposal, be they political or financial.
At the international level, as you know, we have consistently expressed strong support for the International Criminal Court through both our common position and our action plan.
In addition, the European Union, through its Member States, is the largest contributor to the ICC and its budget.
I am particularly happy that the European Union and the 77 ACP countries agreed to include in the revised Cotonou Agreement a commitment to take steps to ratify and implement the Statute.
In July 2004, the International Criminal Court’s prosecutor opened investigations into crimes allegedly committed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Uganda after 2002.
These notifications, followed by arrest warrants in Uganda, are clear indications of the contribution that the ICC can and will make to the fight against impunity on the African continent.
In addition, in March 2005 the UN Security Council – after much lobbying from the EU and other players – adopted a resolution referring the situation in Darfur to the ICC.
In addition to the case of Hissène Habré, a pragmatic way forward must be found – as some of you have said – to bring to justice Charles Taylor, who is currently in exile in Nigeria.
In terms of funding, we are contributing to the international criminal tribunals of Sierra Leone and Rwanda.
Finally, states have a duty under international law to try or to extradite those charged with international crimes, such as crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide.
That is why it is so important that the European Union should continue to support the universal ratification and implementation of the Rome Statute. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Modernisation should also mean quicker and more effective justice for those who blatantly abuse their power.
Forgiveness can come from high moral authorities, but there is no real forgiveness without repentance.
I should like to change the wording of ‘whereas on 12&#160;November 2005 another opposition leader, Nurkadilov Zamanbek, ’ to ‘’.
