It was on this 'imagination' that I was asked to work during this report.
Very reluctant to go for all-out sanctions, the EU is currently maintaining 31 sanctions regimes against third countries or entities, mostly arms embargoes and targeted sanctions designed to have maximum impact on the entities whose behaviour they intend to influence, while limiting as far as possible any harmful humanitarian effects.
The aim of this report is therefore to speak up for a more transparent, more consistent and therefore more credible European sanctions policy.
They are one instrument of many - I am referring back to the first two reports by the Subcommittee on Human Rights - a comprehensive and integrated policy needs to be developed; there can be no effective sanctions without a human rights strategy for the country in question.
All sanctions against a country must be accompanied by visible, and therefore political, but also concrete support for human rights defenders in the country.
To finish, this report also considers that any voluntary and irreversible damage to the environment generates human rights violations and it therefore asks for its inclusion among the reasons for applying sanctions.
Yet it is right to question, as we are doing and as you have done in your report, the possible impact of such measures on the fundamental rights of those individuals who are subject to them.
Sanctions should therefore - as you pointed out - be part of an integrated, comprehensive approach to a country, which in parallel should include political dialogue, incentives, conditionality and other foreign policy instruments and, from that point of view, I am delighted that the report converges with the Council's idea that all its instruments, including restrictive measures, should be deployed flexibly.
In this debate, - I am sorry to go on, but this is particularly topical - we naturally have to take note of the Court of Justice judgment given this morning which, from 3 December, cancels the effects of a Community regulation freezing funds in application of a Security Council resolution, against two plaintiffs because they could not find out why they had been included on terrorist lists.
We also note that the Court of Justice judgment specifies that the primacy of United Nations Security Council resolutions is not challenged and that it is therefore on this basis that the regulations will be modified before 3 December, having first informed Parliament.
The report by Mrs Flautre deals more specifically with the mechanism for evaluating sanctions, asking the Council for an evaluation or an impact assessment of the EU's sanctions policy.
Experience acquired in the design and implementation of measures in different contexts continually feeds into each political debate we have in the Council, and the Council also conducts in-depth discussions on the pertinence, nature and anticipated effectiveness of sanctions, relying on reports by European Union heads of mission and on observations sent in by the Member States.
The Council is fully aware of this and is delighted by the keen interest shown by the European Parliament in EU sanctions policy.
To finish, I would like to applaud the European Parliament's commitment in this area and encourage it to make the most of the parliamentary contacts it has with third countries to improve understanding of the European Union's sanctions regime and explore the possibilities of coordinated action to promote human rights.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, President-in-office of the Council, Mrs Flautre, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission was interested to read the report on the application of sanctions and on the evaluation of sanctions in the area of human rights.
Sanctions are one of the European Union's most effective instruments for promoting respect for human rights in third countries, and they have been applied for this purpose notably in Belarus, China, Myanmar, Uzbekistan, the former Yugoslavia and Zimbabwe, to mention only a few of the more important examples.
The Commission is pleased that this debate is being held on the implementation and evaluation of this important instrument for the common foreign and security policy.
The systematic, unilateral and, you could say automatic application of sanctions against any country whose politicians do not fully respect human rights does not seem desirable.
We believe it is important to promote respect for human rights in third countries and we keep a constant watch on what is applied in third countries.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Development. - Mr President, as rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Development on this report, I would like to state that the European Union should use this remarkable tool of external policy with wisdom and prudence.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of my group on the Flautre report to confirm here what has already been voiced by the committee: on the whole we welcome the text, particularly after a few modifications and, dare I say it, improvements resulting from our amendments, which were accepted by Mrs Flautre.
For this reason, I attach great importance to the provision made in the report for a mechanism allowing judicial review during the enforcement of sanctions, and also the rapporteur's idea of creating a network of experts who will make proposals to the Council regarding the most appropriate restrictive measures.
It is particularly important that we guarantee the effectiveness of sanctions and arrive at a shared understanding of this issue within the Union, and also that we secure cooperation with other international organisations such as the African Union and ASEAN, which are often closer to the problem areas.
Sanctions are not a means of changing the world, but they can be an important tool for compelling countries that violate international law and human rights to change their policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done.
I would particularly like to emphasise a specific element contained in paragraph 6 of the report concerning environmental crime and damage, where it is proposed that this type of voluntary act should also be subject to sanctions.
These are binding clauses for the European Union, and yet these clauses are systematically ignored.
We are in talks again with Vietnam and other Asian countries.
With this general reservation, our political group supports the report.
Mr President, the double standards and the lack of specific evaluation and monitoring tools that tend to characterise the European Union's foreign policy in terms of sanctions are now one of the most serious threats to European credibility.
On numerous occasions these sanctions or restrictive measures, as they are also called, are based more on particular likes and dislikes than on a clear, coherent and convincing strategy, the objective of which should be not only to ensure the security of the European Union, as established in the objectives of the CFSP, but also to improve the situation of human rights, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and good governance in the world, as laid down in Article 11 of the Treaty on European Union.
As a group, we recognise that the 13 amendments tabled, even if adopted, cannot alter the political tone of the report.
Sanctions such as these must be the last resort available to Member States and international organisations, yet the report hails them as the principal instrument of EU foreign policy.
In short, in order to improve the security and human rights situation in the Union's partner countries, it is important that we give some thought to the correct instrument.
In these circumstances, it may be advisable for us to observe a couple of months' ashamed silence - although I do admit that the report in its present form can be described as remarkably balanced by the standards of this House, and rightly criticises a large number of matters such as the situation in Cuba and Zimbabwe.
In my opinion, sanctions are and should remain an integral part of the common foreign and security policy, or, to be more exact, a means of supporting human rights and democracy.
However, they should be imposed if necessary, and it is very important that sanctions play a wider, more consistent role in the strategy for protecting human rights.
I would like to point out that, with regard to the imposition of sanctions, the European Union should cooperate more closely with other countries and international organisations and coordinate its policy and actions with a view to making the sanctions more effective. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, sanctions form an integral part of the European Union's Common Foreign and Security Policy in upholding the observance of human rights and preserving democracy and sovereignty.
Although the European Union has been using many and varied sanctions for almost 20 years, no evaluation or study of the impacts of the EU sanctions policy has ever been undertaken.
I therefore welcome Hélène Flautre's report as an important contribution in this field.
I too am of the view that it is essential to strengthen the European Union's expertise and analytical capabilities in the evaluation of sanctions.
Sanctions should also be accompanied by positive measures and stimuli to support human rights and to support civil society and democracy.
Sanctions should be directed against actual people, for example with a view to restricting their movements or confiscating their assets, and not against the victims of their malicious behaviour. (PL) Mr President, sanctions are an important tool in foreign policy.
They do, however, very often fail, as can be seen from the examples of Zimbabwe and Cuba.
Then ordinary people will see that the measures taken are not targeted at them, but at the apparatus of dictatorial power. (LV) I would like to commend the attempts by Mrs Flautre to strengthen the European Union's capability and increase its authority.
I have no doubt that sanctions need to be applied flexibly, but at the same time the rapporteur also points to the inadmissibility of double standards.
The European Union compromises itself if it introduces a sanctions regime and then breaches it itself, as is the case regarding Robert Mugabe.
In their opinion, military aggression is the best instrument for protecting human rights.
Today's double standards will give rise to even more problems in the future. (NL) Mr President, sanctions were a suitable instrument to gradually put an end to the worst forms of colonial rule and to apartheid in South Africa and Southern Rhodesia.
The sustained economic boycott of the hideous regime of Saddam Hussein in Iraq has taught us that such boycotts can also sometimes result in the inhabitants of the relevant country becoming isolated and afraid of the outside world and supporting their government.
I would therefore like to congratulate Mrs Flautre on her report.
Thank you for your attention. (RO) I hope this report will play an important role in strengthening the European policy on applying Community sanctions.
I believe it is essential to have more cohesion between Member States in the future, both during the decision-making process as regards sanctions and in relation to their correct application.
If we want the European Union to be a strong and respected presence on the international stage and its actions, including as regards sanctions, to have the biggest possible impact, it is essential to demonstrate great solidarity and avoid using different units of measurements.
Last but not least, I would like to bring up the matter of the opportunity of sanctions.
At the beginning of this week, we were facing a specific case: the Georgian crisis and the position of the 27 Member States toward Russia.
It is essential that we have specific monitoring of the effectiveness of these measures; it is essential that we promote intelligent sanction methods, so that they affect those responsible for human rights violations directly and personally.
We are learning from what the United States have done in North Korea and the freezing of bank accounts in Macao.
I therefore support this report, but there is still work to be done by the Commission and the Council in order to genuinely monitor what is being done, why it is being done and how it is being done.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur and assure her that we will be supporting her report.
The EU is the largest contributor to overseas development aid, but it must act with wisdom and prudence when it comes to sanctions.
Cuba should be returned to normal trading: in 10 years' time Cuba would be a radically different country if we did that instead having of these ridiculous sanctions on the place.
Sanctions can be useful but they are limited, especially if they are only being used by European Union countries.
They can be effective, but we must also use prudence and wisdom when we implement them. (EL) Mr President, under the pretext of human rights, the report under discussion proposes the most effective use of the unacceptable and inhuman weapon of sanctions and embargoes to impose the EU's policies by extortion and pressure on countries, peoples and governments that stand up to capitalist barbarity.
They do not need self-appointed protectors, least of all the EU. (PL) Mr President, the use of sanctions should become a real and effective part of EU foreign policy in the sphere of human rights.
When we apply sanctions, we should also support civil society and non-governmental organisations in the country in question.
Examples where individual Member States have been guided by their own specific interests and have violated EU solidarity provide the best evidence of this.
That is precisely what this report is about, and I would like to express my sincere thanks to Mrs Flautre for that. (ET) In my view, one of the most important topics in this report is benchmarking.
This brings me to the next important point raised in the report.
That was the view expressed by everyone, from the taxi driver to the minister.
For a long time now, and also recently in the context of Russia's aggression against Georgia, we have been dealing with a situation in which a special lightweight tariff has been used for countries that, despite being dictatorial or semi-dictatorial, are rich or large, and for countries that are violating human rights but are less important from a European aspect, or for American business.
In this context we should not reject the threat of the possible use of sanctions against Russia for the war in the Caucasus.
Ladies and gentlemen, we need a policy revolution in this area of human rights. (DE) Mr President, the current debate on possible sanctions against Russia in reaction to the conflict in the Caucasus once again shows how irresponsibly sanctions are sometimes handled.
It is particularly important to evaluate the effectiveness of EU sanctions correctly.
The European Parliament is currently the most important agent for promoting human rights.
EU sanctions ought not to be an aggressive political instrument, but should be there in the people's interest.
Sanctions that punish the civil population are counterproductive and miss the actual point. (RO) Sanctions represent one of the instruments the Union can use to implement its human rights policy.
As long as the European Union does not speak with only one voice in its common security policy, it is very difficult for us to impose efficient and systematic Community sanctions.
The European Union can play an important role here in ensuring that the fruits of this policy do not arrive where we do not want them to arrive. (HU) Mr President, I congratulate Mrs Flautre on her excellent, balanced report.
I can see three cases where the European Union is applying double standards.
And there is a third double standard, which raises the question of our credibility and whether the European Union has the right to criticise third countries with regard to human rights and minority rights when there are some countries in the Union where several hundreds of thousands of people do not have nationality, like two of the Baltic States, or when there is a leading power in the European Union whose constitution still rejects the recognition of regional languages.
I would therefore ask that the subcommittee investigate this grave situation in accordance with the decision, because it is only then that Parliament will be able to draw the attention of the Council and the Commission to the actual situation and to assume a role in the sanctions policy.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by responding to Mrs Flautre, also to Mr Romeva I Rueda and to those who spoke of the need to have an appraisal, to have an evaluation and impact assessments.
The Council has also considerably developed its consultations with local and international non-governmental organisations, and today Parliament has shown that it has a very important role to play in this evaluation.
They are not the only instrument for promoting human rights.
There are two other instruments which stigmatise the countries they are targeting less, but which are also a tool for promoting human rights, and these are the conditionalities provided for in the enlargement policy of the Stabilisation and Association Process with the Balkans and the Neighbourhood Policy, and mandatory human rights clauses in all the agreements that the European Union enters into with third countries or groups of countries, the violation of which can lead to the suspension of these agreements.
I would also like to say to Mr Cappato that in the cases mentioned, energy sanctions have already been used by the European Union and this has been in a variety of circumstances.
It is a very important issue, particularly as regards Uzbekistan; it is true, having been there for a conference on Central Asia and the European Union's presence in Central Asia.
As regards Cuba and those who mentioned it, I would like to remind you that the sanctions against Cuba were lifted in June 2008, which is not stopping us from keeping up rigorous monitoring of human rights developments in the country.
With all these tools we want to achieve one thing: upholding and promoting human rights.
Mrs Flautre's report clearly shows that we need to refine this instrument further and make sure that our system of sanctions is in itself fully in line with international law, and does not violate fundamental human rights we all subscribe to.
I believe that our courts - as indeed the European Court of Justice has done today - contribute substantially to developing our sanctions system while at the same time safeguarding fundamental principles like the rule of law and due process.
Here I could also offer again the services of our delegations because they are sur place and they have a very good knowledge of what is going on; contributions by civil society and human rights organisations are certainly very useful there.
With regard to coherence I would like to say that sanctions are an important tool, but they must be complemented with a proactive approach in our development work: support for human rights institutions, political reform, promoting of civil society.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, I am pleased that this discussion has been held and about what each of you, and the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commission, have contributed.
We therefore need a very solid philosophy and we really have to be in step and in agreement about our procedures and policy.
When you engage in a sanctions policy, you have to see it through and to respect what many of you have called 'completely objective benchmarks', which let you measure the real effectiveness of the sanctions.
The vote will take place on Thursday 4 September 2008.
On 30 July 2008 these incumbents beat up my colleague Dimitar Stoyanov.
A medical examination established 34 injuries sustained from the thugs in police uniforms.
Against the backdrop of the EU effective policy for the application of sanctions in cases of gross violation of human rights, about which you speak in your report, I insist that this Parliament and each of its Members voice an opinion in respect to this shameful for all of us incident, and severely condemn the governing mafia in my country.
in writing. - The criminal justice system serves to punish, deter and to rehabilitate the offender.
Research based on the effectiveness of over 100 instances of economic sanctions since World War I has shown that they are most likely to be effective if: the change we demand is modest; large powerful nations or groups of nations act against a weaker nation; the target nation is truly dependent on trade with those imposing the sanctions; sanctions are imposed quickly and damage to the imposer of sanctions is limited.
It is vital that the EU reviews its sanctions policy, not only with the aim of achieving the desired changes in offending nations, but also to ensure its own credibility.
In Germany, Sylvia Stolz was arrested for defending her client's views in court.
Judges like Estoup in Versailles, Schir in Lyon and Cotte in Paris are vying to get these arbitrary laws extensively applied out of disregard for any principles that protect freedom.
Most of all, however, some of those responsible for this freedom-killing legislation sit in this Parliament.
in writing. - The European Union is based on values, such as democracy and respect for human rights.
The EU should not turn a blind eye and make exceptions for big countries, such as Russia and China, which is in fact trading human rights for economic benefits.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Flautre, for a balanced and worthy report, whose insistence on the re-evaluation of EU sanctions and research as part of the EU's wider human rights policy is only right and proper.
Both these aspects have definitely been important in cases where actual lasting results have been achieved, for example in the dismantling of South Africa's apartheid policy.
Parliament has stressed before how important it is to have a more effective assembly for human rights policy.
