Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 7 July 2000.
I propose a minute' s silence as a last tribute to these victims, as an expression of our support for their families and friends and, indeed, to all democratic men and women in Spain, and particularly in the Spanish Basque Country, who, despite the climate of terror, continue to believe in political dialogue, the fundamental values of civilised society and the ultimate victory of democracy.
This is much more than a metaphysical quotation from Hegel.
We in Euskal Herritarrok also regret profoundly the loss of human lives and share with all Basque citizens the shocked feelings of our people at the moment.
The action of ETA is a righteous expression of the struggle for recognition of something quite elementary. (The President cut the speaker off) Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso, in view of the circumstances, I must say, personally, and this is perhaps not quite in keeping with my duties as President, that I find your contribution quite unacceptable here. (Loud applause) Tribute Addressing more particularly those Members of Parliament that were members of the previous legislature, it is my very sad duty to inform you of the deaths, this summer, of Vassilis Ephremidis and Staffan Burenstam Linder.
I should like to thank the 300 Members who sent in their completed questionnaires.
Madam President, we Andalusians are proud to receive this broken-down vessel in our waters, but we are very concerned about the United Kingdom' s stubborn determination to repair the fault there.
Mr Bautista Ojeda, I should like to point out that next Thursday, in the topical and urgent debate, the safety of nuclear submarines will be discussed.
The execution is to take place in ten days time on 14 September, and I therefore feel that it is important that you, Madam President, who are well-known for your sensitivity, write to the Governor of the State of Virginia on behalf of this House and request a stay of execution.
Madam President, I am not about to enter into this debate, but I would just like to draw your attention and my fellow Members' attention to another matter concerning this city, which is the extremely sensitive and worrying situation of a group of Hungarian gypsies who arrived in Strasbourg on 24 July, following persecution and racial discrimination in their own country, and who are seeking political asylum not only in our country, but also in other European Union countries.
I do not wish to go into the details of the situation, but the essence of the problem is of very direct concern to us since, on the one hand it provides a very tangible and specific illustration of the problems involved in applying the Copenhagen criteria, which require urgent solutions, and on the other hand, the problems that certain countries that are candidates for membership of the European Union have in fulfilling the terms of the treaty.
Then again, it also forces us to state, once again, that respect for minorities and human rights must be assessed in the same way and on a par with compliance with the economic criteria.
The group of 46 people who are here, Madam President, the Zamoli gypsies, are placing all their hope in the ability of this House to achieve progress in these matters.
Thank you, Mrs Gillig.
Madam President, I am one of those MEPs who need to travel for 24 hours in order to be here by 5.00 p.m.
However, the amendment has not been correctly translated into Spanish since, where it talks about the peripheral regions, I wished to refer, and I in fact did refer, to the outermost regions of the European Union.
Madam President, since a colleague has mentioned the name of Gibraltar could I remind the House that Sunday, 10 September is the national day in Gibraltar and some of us will be there.
Yesterday, the ministers of the 15 imposed sanctions on Burma, and there has been a siege of the elected leader of Burma, Aung San Suu Kyi, and an outburst of violence around her home.
Lord Bethell, I have, myself, already made a statement on this subject because we are extremely concerned about the highly insecure situation of the winner of the European Parliament Sakharov Prize and we are monitoring this situation extremely closely.
I would ask this House to give urgent consideration to the exclusion of those citizens and to secure their representation in this Parliament so they can bring their concerns to this House themselves.
I should also like to express my respect, however, for those who do smoke, and to defend their right to smoke.
For example, it would appear appropriate to place an ashtray at the point which marks the end of a smoking area and the start of a non-smoking area in order to avoid cigarette butts burning the floor, but this is a question of common sense.
Madam President, I would like to speak against this proposal.
We had initially heard that it was not possible to vote on the Valdivielso report because Commissioner Patten was not here.
It now turns out that Commissioner Patten is here and it seems to me that any technical problem that there may have been, and I am aware of that possibility, could be resolved by the Parliament services within no more than 2 or 3 hours.
I would therefore ask that the vote on the MEDA regulation be included in this part-session and if the services really need one more day to resolve the technical problems, that the vote be delayed for one day.
Mrs Terrón, there is clearly a technical problem here.
It will not therefore be possible to vote tomorrow at noon because not all Members will have had time to see the amendments.
A suitable time for it to speak on this matter would be tomorrow morning when the Council and the Commission make their statements on the Union's external action priorities.
But I would ask the Commission to ensure that our position on the enlargement of the European Union is the one which we have always held, namely that by the year 2003 we in the European Union wish to be capable of enlargement, and to ensure that these principles are upheld here!
First of all, in our view, the enlargement of the Union, the incorporation of other European countries in the liberal order of Europe, is the number one priority that we face in the next few years.
We have to go out and sell the case for enlargement to public opinion in all the Member States of the European Union.
It would be wrong if it seemed to some of our voters in the fifteen Member States that enlargement was an issue for the political elites of Europe.
I will relay it to Commissioner Verheugen. (Applause) Madam President, I am very grateful to the Commissioner for his statement.
I applaud the view expressed by the Commissioner that we all share the task of selling this historic challenge but I deplore the fact that someone as pre-eminent as Commissioner Verheugen, at least according to a number of newspapers today, should say the Member States should not leave the Commission to do the dirty job alone.
It is important to understand that a Commissioner, Commissioner Verheugen in this case, has a role to speak for Europe.
Madam President, there was a lot of animated discussion in our group about the position Commissioner Verheugen has adopted, and our main conclusion was that transparency, more than anything, is now required in the negotiations on enlargement.
I am speaking here as a German and as the acting chairman of my group.
My group has always believed that not only the Commission as a whole but also all of the individual Commissioners must justify themselves before this Parliament, and this regardless of their nationality and regardless of any affiliation to a political party.
I should like to say that my own group is in favour not only of "selling" enlargement or other major projects to public opinion but also of getting our fellow citizens closely involved in all the major phases of European construction, including by means of referenda.
We are, however, totally opposed to the idea of using the referendum as a sort of threat which could be abused by some "stirrers" , exploiting fears and, in particular, unwillingness to open up to others.
Consequently, in order to ensure that enlargement is a success in the eyes of public opinion in our respective countries and in the eyes of the citizens of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, I am in favour of dispelling any misunderstanding, and thus of giving Commissioner Verheugen the opportunity to offer Parliament a clear explanation.
I think the most suitable time would be on Tuesday, when the Council and Commission will be making their statement on the European Union' s priorities for external action.
Madam President, I would like to speak in favour of Enrique Barón Crespo's proposal for the reasons he has outlined so eloquently.
Madam President, my group takes the opposite view, to the effect that it is important to vote upon a resolution.
In the first place, it is not the first time that Parliament has given an opinion on the subject of human cloning.
If anyone adopted a unilateral stance on these occasions, it was the British Government which, without any prior consultation whatsoever, adopted a position in favour of therapeutic cloning.
I refer to Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure.
In actual fact we have already discussed this and Parliament has always been opposed to it.
But a majority of Parliament has always adopted an uncompromising position.
Madam President, I support this proposal and justify it on the basis of the fact that quite a lot has been said about Iran recently.
The situation is very delicate and a lot is happening there, but there has been discussion about it.
We would very much like to see a place on the agenda to discuss the nuclear power plant at Temelin, as in many Member States, especially in Austria, obviously, as it is next door to it, the situation is very tense.
If you are looking for support, then I would be pleased to support this proposal from the PPE because it concerns an extremely positive development in Macedonia, which could in fact be further consolidated by a swift endorsement from Parliament.
I shall then give my opinion of the proposed regulation, as well as the report as a whole.
Specifically, this economic and financial aid must facilitate the completion of a free trade area by 2010, to which end aid programmes have been implemented, both for macroeconomic reforms and for sectoral reforms and structural adjustments.
We must remember that the ratio between the per capita income of the European Union and the MEDA countries is 1 to 10, that is to say a very considerable gap.
Meanwhile, measures are also being considered to facilitate private investment in these 12 countries, which in 1994 amounted to EUR 3 500 million, particularly by means of updating legislation and administration, as well as by means of meetings between companies belonging to the MEDA countries and the European Union.
The MEDA programme seeks to clear the way towards a definitive and lasting peace in that part of the world by means, amongst other things, of economic stability.
We are talking about a population of around 230 million people which, given the current rate of growth, will reach 300 million in 10 or 12 years time.
The Barcelona Agreement signed by 27 countries, those of the European Union plus the 12 countries of the southern Mediterranean: Algeria, Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, the Palestinian Authority, Syria, Tunisia and Turkey.
The three main objectives involve the political and security dimension, the economic and financial dimension and the social, cultural and human dimension.
There has been particular criticism of sub-contracting associations such as RTM.
Above all, the European Parliament must take part in the process and must be kept informed more regularly, particularly through the Euro-Mediterranean forum.
It would be appropriate to speed up the signing of the association agreements, which to date have been signed only with 7 countries.
This particularly concerns Lebanon, Algeria, Syria, etc.
Secondly, project selection must be more democratic and must, to a greater extent, involve greater participation by civil society and NGOs, who continually expressed this desire, especially at the European Parliament round table held in Brussels on 29 June this year, entitled 'Towards a sustainable MEDA' .
We would therefore ask that a report on the human rights record of each of the signatory or candidate countries be presented to Parliament annually to be taken into consideration in the selection of projects.
We must therefore comment on the volume of appropriations dedicated to regional schemes which, we acknowledge, are harder to negotiate and implement but which correspond to the objective of efficiency, particularly in improving South-South relations and, above all, in safeguarding more extensive action for decentralised cooperation, which we all consider to be an important goal.
Fifthly, on the subject of the six priority areas of partnership, the environment, water policy, industry, energy, transport and the information society, we think it essential to reactivate programmes disregarded until now, the SMAP adopted in Helsinki in 1997 on the environment.
At least EUR 10 million must be allocated annually for water.
I should also like to stress the interest which Commissioner Busquin has taken in our work, reactivating Mediterranean cooperation in the field of research, particularly at the forthcoming informal summit on Capri, on 29 September.
Firstly, Mr Valdivielso de Cué added, and I congratulate him on this, a fundamental idea, namely the need to make a real commitment to the Mediterranean by granting this region aid comparable with that granted to the countries of Eastern Europe.
Mr Valdivielso de Cué has done excellent work on all these points.
I do, however, feel that one fundamental matter, immigration, has not been sufficiently taken into account by this proposal for a regulation.
Let me, in conclusion, quote Mr Prodi who said that immigration must become a factor in development.
I would urge the House to support the two amendments tabled to the Piétrasanta report in the name of this group.
Our friends in these countries understandably question our sincerity.
I accept that free access to Europe for Mediterranean products poses problems for producers in our southern Member States, but surely this problem could be compensated at least to some extent in the CAP.
I would like to remind you, Commissioner, that the Barcelona agreements talk about an area of free trade and economic cooperation and of security and they also talk a great deal about the cultural and human dimension.
To this end, Commissioner, we ask, and my group will act in accordance with this request in the budgetary debate, for the restoration in the regulation of the amounts allocated to MEDA, so that these will remain at least equal in real terms to those allocated during the previous period.
While the problems in the Mediterranean remain serious, and there has been considerable delay in implementing the Barcelona decisions that were designed to tackle them, we cannot accept a reduction in investment.
Eliminating tension and promoting balanced development in the Mediterranean third countries leads to greater security, prosperity and prospects for the European Union.
Therefore, Mediterranean policy must be a fundamental pillar of the Union' s external action, which will benefit the European Union itself.
The different aspects mentioned in each report must be taken into account because they make a wonderful contribution to achieving this.
Too frequently I meet people who have extensive experience of the local association movement, who feel let down by the procedures they have to follow in order to receive subsidies.
The MEDA programme also raises fundamental questions about our Euro-Mediterranean policy in general.
The growth in competition could eat away at the industrial fabric of these countries, which in some cases consists of vulnerable small and medium-sized enterprises.
An evaluation of MEDA I and the wording of MEDA II clearly demonstrate the need for this.
It would appear from the conclusions of the European Council of Feira (19 and 20 June 2000) that the EU' s Mediterranean policy is founded on 'the partnership' .
May these reports and this debate help to realise these lofty ambitions.
Mr President, I too wish to stress how important relations with the southern countries are for Europe, in particular with those in the Mediterranean Basin.
We have been working in this area for almost ten years and for the last five, the significant MEDA programme has been available to us.
Mr President, in the development of relations with the Mediterranean, Europe cannot fail to give due importance to this geographical area of the world.
The Mediterranean Sea is the testing ground for the European Parliament' s capacities to act outside the borders of the Union.
It is a well-known fact that the great Europe which is a dream of so many cannot be achieved without the political and economic involvement of this major, fundamental part of the Union.
Mr President, now that all the honourable members' wishes have been voiced, I feel we must resolve to make urgent changes to the way in which the implementation of the MEDA programmes is organised.
Mr President, while discussing the MEDA programme it might also be important to consider the balance that is supposed to exist throughout the Union.
New initiatives to support cohesion policy, such as the Union' s northern dimension that stepped into the limelight during the Finnish presidential term, must also be seen as important projects for the Union as a whole, especially with regard to the challenges of eastward enlargement.
Mr Patten, stick to your guns!
Parliament ought to support you on this.
The Council or the Member States have a right to be consulted, but they do not have a right to co-decision.
You will be judged on enlargement towards the east, but also on whether you create your own room for manoeuvre in external policy.
Mr President, as someone who lives in the Mediterranean, under the Mediterranean sun and who enjoys Mediterranean traditions and culture, I would like to speak up for the countries of that area.
The MEDA programme, which largely failed in the first stage, perhaps did not appreciate that the situation of the Mediterranean countries, given the direction that European politics are taking, is extremely difficult.
It is extremely difficult in those countries to change the agricultural system and, nevertheless, they have to share their products with other countries of North Africa, of the mare nostrum, which belongs to everyone at the same time.
Therefore, we must have a fair policy, and to this end the MEDA programme may be a start, although I believe that, in many cases, it is based on criteria that are important to the northern countries.
I therefore support a process of industrialisation based on innovation - we must not turn to the old industries but to innovation - and of supporting projects relating to technological innovation and training.
In this respect, I believe it is a mistake to turn to large projects.
I thought that Mr Linkohr made some extremely pertinent and challenging points.
Mr Piétrasanta's report is also favourable towards the 1998 MEDA Programme report.
The Commission proposes to reduce excessive scrutiny arrangements for individual projects in the Management Committee by introducing strategic programmes through the yearly adoption of national financing plans and a regional financing plan and simplifying decision making.
The simplifications that we have requested would bring MEDA programming procedures in line with those of other financial instruments of EU external relations programmes.
The economic growth of these countries is of key importance to their political and social stabilisation.
In that spirit, we can fully endorse Amendments Nos 2, 8, 9, 11, 12, 15, 17, 19, 20, 30, 33, 37 and 41 and we can partially accept Amendment Nos 4, 5, 6, 10, 22, 23, 24, 26, 28, 31, 35, 38 and 40 providing some slight verbal modifications.
However we cannot support Amendment No 25, which proposes an individual examination of financing proposals by the MED Committee.
We think this is contrary to the spirit of our overall proposal on the revision of the MEDA Regulation, because we want to streamline and simplify procedures.
Enough staff to do the job is one of the key principles underlying the Commission's efforts to reform its external assistance services.
Our programmes in the Mediterranean are at the core of my agenda, along with the reinvigoration of the Barcelona process.
Our funding of programmes in the Mediterranean between now and 2006 is probably the largest of all our programmes representing over 20% of our efforts externally.
But we will be tested by what we do with MEDA and what we do in the Balkans and by how these programmes actually work on the ground.
The vote will be taken on Wednesday at 12 noon.
Mr President, I believe that we all agree that in 2000, obviously, the Community already enjoys numerous and fundamental competencies in the external field.
With the CFSP, the Union' s external activity takes on a new dimension, definitively going beyond the economic field in order to participate actively in external policy.
Secondly, we wish to clarify and develop the legal status of the Commission' s current external delegations, their role and their relationship with the various Community institutions.
We therefore propose that the Commission delegations become Community delegations so that their relations with the Council may be closer, through the High Representative of the CFSP, as well as their relations with the European Parliament and its members, thereby guaranteeing greater efficiency and political control of their activities.
Thirdly and lastly, we intend to improve the coordination between the delegations and the external services of the Member States.
In particular, I would like to express my gratitude for the other contributions which, in committee and with tomorrow' s vote in Parliament, greatly enrich the initial proposal.
Mr President, this report on a European Parliament initiative highlights an extremely important issue that we are facing, not only in the field of common foreign and security policy but in the context of enlargement of the European Union itself.
It would be strange - not to say dangerous - if the European Union did not at the same time strive to improve its common diplomatic instruments.
There is no excuse for lagging behind in this area, even if we take the factor of each Member State' s national interest into account as well as the almost purely economic nature of the history of the Community' s institutions between the Treaty of Rome and the Treaty of Maastricht.
It is no exaggeration to state with all certainty that diplomatic activity is becoming more and more involved in the economic sphere and to say that, in turn, economic interests cannot be protected without diplomatic activity.
It is quite clear that, amongst other obstacles, organising matters according to pillars and the fact that the European Union has no legal personality both make it more difficult to achieve this aim and forced this report' s proposals to perform some clever balancing tricks.
The wealth and diversity of diplomatic experience in the various countries of Europe is also recognised throughout the world.
It would be a mistake to think that any of the proposals put forward in this report could harm processes that are under way in the field of CFSP in general, or in the field of diplomacy in particular.
The underlying aim of this report, as we understand it, following on from several discussions held over a period of months, is to bring together all relevant current experiences and processes and to direct them towards a common goal, which is, by and large, to create a genuine common European diplomatic service.
Mr President, we in the group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party set great store by the fact that this is not an attempt to set up a single diplomatic corps to replace the Member States' external services.
Rather, it is a question of improving the quality of the external service the Community already has and of improving cooperation between that service and the Member States' external services.
This means that the message we send to the European citizens can only be contradictory.
Second: the accidental occurrence of contradictions in interventions by different countries on issues affecting the interests of the European Union.
Third: the insufficient coordination in the defence of points of view, interests and responsibilities of the European Union in international bodies of a political, economic, cultural nature etc., such as the UN, the International Monetary Fund, the World Trade Organisation, the WHO etc.
Fourth: we have also noted that the presence of the European Union is weak in relation to its economic importance and also in relation to the significant presence of the United States.
We therefore believe it is important to proceed with the proposal presented in the report and, furthermore, to take more cohesive action, make a greater impact and make greater progress in that direction.
Therefore, as I said at the beginning, our group will broadly support Mr Galeote Quecedo' s report.
The only reason for this college' s existence is to create a common diplomatic service and to do so in a completely transparent way, as outlined in the Galeote Quecedo report.
The issue is of fundamental importance and there is a powerful taboo in this Parliament which we are never prepared to confront: that we have fifteen national diplomatic services, which have been strengthened over years of integration by gradually taking over the competencies of all the national ministries and which have become the real powers, the main power blocking any possible reform of foreign affairs and diplomacy, because it is their power that would ultimately be under threat.
I am rather disappointed that the report does not discuss these issues and somewhat surprised that the EPP has adopted this position given that, tomorrow, in another report on the Union' s political priorities, it will probably adopt a more forthright position on the communitisation of external policy.
The rapporteur rationalises his intention at the very beginning of his report.
Mr Galeote Quecedo makes the same point himself in his explanatory statement.
Mr President, the question I am dying to ask is this: to what extent do the Member States themselves actually share the rapporteur' s views?
I believe that this report represents a move in the right direction.
This means that their specific importance in many cases, given the significant quantities they have to distribute, is greater than that of the ambassadors and of the Member States.
I hope, Mr President, that these initiatives will contribute effectively to the creation of a more visible and coherent external policy for European Union action.
I would like to speak on behalf of the non-federalists in our group who actually feel that Europe is centralising far too much and more and more powers are being taken away from people at local and national levels, basically without any proper democratic control.
I am not being nationalistic and saying that I want the Irish Embassy, but there is a certain amount of danger in this, particularly because it is geared towards the common foreign and security policy, which is not in the interest of the developing world or of the peoples that have been persecuted and exploited by Member States of this Union.
The proposal to create a Community diplomatic corps and a college of diplomacy is not intended to fill a vacuum in Community legislation.
There are many points of detail in the report which are particularly controversial, not least the idea of European Union embassies and the suggestion that the European Union should have "coordinated representation in international bodies such as the UN".
The Commission's external assistance programmes account for nearly EUR 10 billion this year, and the priority task of the Community delegations is to administer these programmes properly and efficiently.
He said that there is an urgent need to focus activities on core tasks and that additional staff needs will be concentrated in the area of project and programme implementation, in particular within delegations.
Mr President, the informal meeting of Foreign Ministers in Evian has, in fact, already anticipated to some degree the excellent proposals in Mr Galeote Quecedo' s report.
When I go on foreign trips, I always ask for a meeting to be arranged which will be attended by all the EU ambassadors, i.e.
And then there are complaints that the joint policy of the EU Member States is not in the limelight enough, and that although people in Indonesia know full well what Japan and the United States are doing there, they do not have a clear enough idea as to what the 15 Member States of the European Union are doing there.
Paragraph 1 - the setting up of a College of European Diplomacy.
But I am taking the floor as someone who until last April was a very ordinary civil servant in the German diplomatic service, and so people might perhaps think that I would be certain to be relatively sceptical about an approach of this kind because it will surely tend to erode the powers of national colleagues.
I can say without any reservation that the Commission has benefited from the report and it is bound to make a permanent impression on the way we run our external service in the future.
The fact that we called all our heads of delegation to Brussels at this time is a sign of our determination to give a firm lead to the external service and to provide it with the career structure and the leadership that it deserves and needs.
Members will have seen the communication on the development of the external service that was adopted by the Commission on 18 July.
It recommends continuing to rebalance delegation staff between officials and local agents and continuing the regionalisation of our representation in a way that will free up 32 official posts immediately to be redeployed to delegations that need reinforcement.
However, even though some of these are urgent priorities, our first concern must be to use available resources to reinforce some of our existing delegations.
The communication also describes the measures we are taking to devolve authority from Brussels to delegations in the field, known in jargon as "deconcentration".
This is closely linked to our efforts to reform our external assistance programmes.
If we get through our reform proposals and if they are supported by the budgetary authority, in the SCR and the Bureau d'assistance technique combined we will have fewer people managing our external programmes, though we will have more than at present in the SCR.
But we will have fewer people in Brussels and more people in the field.
A number of the points raised by the resolution, for example on regionalisation and on the evaluation of our network of external representations, are already covered in our own communication.
The report stresses the role of the Commission and its delegations in the Community's external activities and it is, of course, essential that the Commission's external service be able to continue to contribute properly.
The first step must be to develop the training of officials in the Commission who deal with external relations.
On the legal status of delegations I should say that although delegations are formally delegations of the Commission they are under clear instructions to give all possible assistance to all the institutions of the European Union and indeed to Member States.
We have made it absolutely clear to our delegations that they should regard themselves as working for the High Representative and for the other institutions of the European Union, both when it comes to reporting and when it comes to logistical issues.
In our 1998 communication on the external service, we made it clear that any Member State that wished to keep a presence in a third country without maintaining an embassy was welcome to use the Commission's delegations.
There is already a considerable degree of cooperation between Member States' embassies and Commission delegations.
The Commission also supports and, when appropriate, seeks to participate in co-location projects where more than one Member State and/or the Commission agree to occupy premises jointly.
There are ten in our delegations at the moment, with a few more due in the near future.
The restriction on the development of this programme is not lack of will on our part - I want to make that clear - but to some extent a lack of resources and also a certain reluctance on the part of the Member States to respond to our invitation to second diplomats to the delegations.
We have to cooperate better without finding ourselves in a situation in which everything we do is second-guessed, not just in Brussels, but in other countries as well.
All this discussion about coordination and about the future of the external service takes place against the backdrop of a treaty which talks about a common foreign and security policy, not a single foreign and security policy in a Union of fifteen Member States, each with its own foreign minister.
In welcoming this report and in promising active cooperation in following its recommendations I must stress that if the external service is to carry out the role which Parliament wants for it, it must have the resources to do so; that is, not just resources to place officials in third countries but also to ensure that they are properly trained, that they are equipped with the necessary information technology and that they have secure means of communication.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Patten.
The debate is closed.
In this case, we have almost 600 projects which were approved in due time and which are to be financed by the ECIP.
The Commission has therefore proposed - after a delay which we condemn in our report, caused, of course, by the events of 1999 - to extend, not the legal basis itself, but the existence of the technical assistance offices and the means which are essential for the management of the sizeable remainder of the ECIP - 590 projects - and to do so for two years.
I have to say, Commissioner, that the Committee on Development and Cooperation has been faced with the opinions of the other Parliamentary committees - the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control - on this matter.
We, the Committee on Development and Cooperation, have understood the Commission' s message, the request to assist the ECIP project - which, I repeat, has contributed, along with other projects, to the creation and growth of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in Third World countries and has, in effect, raised the profile of the Union and enabled it to penetrate a new sector, which is therefore important to the Commission - and we have therefore decided not to go along with the more restrictive opinions of the other Committees or to make amendments to the Commission' s principal request to be granted two years to bring this major economic cooperation instrument to the best possible conclusion and to honour the agreements, signed before 31 December 1999.
However, at the same time, Commissioner, we have made a request: we have called upon you to inform Parliament of what the Commission intends to be the future of this instrument and to do so in good time for us to be able to reflect on the matter, together if possible.
We are aware of the differences of opinion and the possible conflicts of responsibilities between external relations and development and therefore between the responsibilities of the individual Directorates-General, and possibly even between the responsibilities of the individual Commissioners, but we are also aware that, during restructuring, the responsibility for external relations is extremely carefully reviewed by yourself, in particular, Commissioner, and by the entire Commission.
Mr President, the Committee on Budgetary Control unanimously supports the objectives of the EC Investment Partners programme.
The first point to note is that the Commission is currently operating in a legal vacuum, because the proposal to continue the programme - which has after all already been extended twice - was only tabled at the end of January, that is, one month after the regulation had expired, and will not be able to be adopted until late autumn.
We endorse the legislative proposal as a stopgap measure until the end of 2001, because we do not deny that, according to the figures published, 34 000 firms have been involved as partners, creating over 1 300 joint ventures and 42 000 jobs.
So, clearly, when you look at Facilities 2, 3, 4 and 1b, you soon realise that the work was not done by somebody who was a banker, but by somebody who perhaps was a bureaucrat and knew nothing about finance and lending to projects which could be viable.
The Socialist Group supports all cooperation measures which, like this one, help to make companies, and economies in general, more dynamic, by means of private initiative.
According to the external evaluation it has been subjected to, the ECIP has demonstrated a significant multiplier effect, creating jobs and joint ventures.
We now hope, Commissioner, that the future programme that will replace it will add better management to these positive effects.
Nevertheless, we have to say that although we are happy with the successes of this programme, we Socialist members of the Committee on Development and Cooperation suggest that the main objective of any instrument for aid, including those in the private sector, must be to reduce poverty in those countries, which is ultimately the objective of these instruments.
We cannot say that in the evaluations control has always been exercised over the quality of aid via the ECIP.
For example, when a bank is established in a beneficiary country by means of ECIP funds, how can we be sure that these funds are directed towards attracting investment and not simply to subsidising the presence of the bank in that country?
Now that the agreement on free trade, political concertation and cooperation between the European Union and Mexico has just entered into force, it is a good time to remember that we should continue with this type of financial instrument which, in some cases, such as Mexico, has been used intensively and positively, and is ideally suited to strengthening commercial ties between particular blocks, such as the European Union and the countries involved.
In my opinion, this requires a strengthening of human resources in the Commission' s offices in the countries involved.
Mr President, the proposed ECIP development programme provides a pretty picture of the European Commission' s mismanagement.
It appears that, last year, the EUR 90 million that were budgeted for this programme were not even used, due to a lack of human resources available to study the dossiers, which are piled up on a desk somewhere in Brussels.
Lastly, the criteria for the distribution of funds between the different foci of the programme, particularly the social rights of workers, have remained impenetrably vague.
Mr President, I shall be voting against the Dell'Alba report, and more generally against the ECIP and MEDA programmes, which were basically designed to finance subsidies and loans to private companies investing in Latin America, Asia, the Mediterranean and in South Africa.
The stated political aim of these programmes is to encourage the opening up of these countries' markets to European capital.
I therefore object to these programmes across the board, because in spite of a few hypocritical phrases about fighting poverty, they all seek to provide the imperialism of the great European powers with additional instruments for getting a foothold in poorer countries and then dominating them.
Mr President, we are holding a debate on an issue which is of relatively modest importance in budgetary terms, ambitious in its objectives, relatively encouraging in its results, inefficient because of its cumbersome management procedures, at times contradictory and, in short, there is clearly room for improvement in the future.
We have already talked a lot about this in relation to the ACP countries and we must apply the same criteria in relation to the countries of Latin America and the southern Mediterranean.
Let me thank Mr Dell'Alba and the Development and Cooperation Committee very sincerely for their excellent work on the Commission proposal on the future of the European Community Investment Partners.
The ECIP instrument operated successfully for 12 years, from 1988 to 1999.
From 1991, the Commission sent annual reports on the implementation and on the results of ECIP to Parliament and to the Council, of which the last covered operations in 1999.
Parliament also received the independent evaluation report that was completed in December 1999, but, as honourable Members will know, from 1997 ECIP began to run into trouble.
The lack of sufficient staff to ensure the smooth management of an ever-increasing number of actions resulted in delays in the implementation of the programme, which in turn caused growing discontent among its beneficiaries.
The Commission decided not to extend the instrument beyond 31 December 1999.
This will allow better coordination with other similar European Union instruments and ensure improved management and financial procedures in the light of the new Commission guidelines on development policy and the management of external aid.
The approval of the proposed regulation will make possible the continued sound management of existing ECIP projects and their orderly closure and winding-down as they reach completion.
As far as the suggested amendments are concerned, the Commission agrees with Amendment Nos 1 and 2, which correspond with our views on the need to reassess, improve and redesign the existing financial instruments for the support of private investment.
As regards Amendment No 3, the Commission agrees with the principle behind it but is not in a position to provide the legislative proposals requested by Parliament by the end of this year.
It will allow the Commission to bring this programme to an end in a responsible manner and to launch renewed and improved initiatives for promotion of the private sector in developing countries.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Patten.
The debate is closed.
This is why we have proposed - and I hope that Commissioner Patten, who is not listening to me at the moment, will take this proposal on board with due consideration - that an information campaign be mounted to inform the public of our countries how our money is being spent and how our resources are being used, and we propose that this information campaign should not, of course, be financed out of ECHO funds but out of the ad hoc funds.
Mr President, the rapporteur, Mr Imbeni, has done an excellent job.
The United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, IPCC, has reported, for example, that we can already see a, "discernible human influence on global climate".
Our concepts of crisis management ought therefore, in my opinion, also to have a socio-political dimension and be integrated into development policy and, for example, economic policy strategy.
Otherwise we will, in many cases, only be repairing the damage inflicted as a consequence of our own policy, and the people in the countries of the South, in particular, will suffer as a result of the disasters which we have caused.
The second problem is directly linked to the first and yet is of a very practical nature.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate Mr Imbeni because I believe he has produced a splendid report and, while we were debating it in committee, we were already in complete agreement with his proposals.
The Socialist Group believes that aid policy must be the flagship of the European Union' s external activities insofar as it reflects the ideas which must inspire the construction of the European Union, that is to say, solidarity and cohesion on a global level.
In these times of Commission reform, when many Community policies and procedures are being questioned, humanitarian aid has been evaluated positively by different bodies and, of course, on a political level, by Parliament.
However, we, who have seen and evaluated what ECHO has done, believe that its work has been very positive.
This report therefore serves to ratify the principle of humanitarian aid as a right for people involved in disasters and an obligation on the part of the international community, in which the European Union is a major player, in both quantitative and qualitative terms.
We have seen this in the case of Mozambique and other disasters.
In this respect, the Commission and the Council' s budgetary proposals are far from meeting what we believe to be the humanitarian needs.
We believe that it is essential that, when a humanitarian catastrophe occurs, whether natural or caused by man, instruments are already in place.
In this respect, we wish to highlight the importance of DIPECHO.
The Socialist Group supports the principles which govern humanitarian aid and its future in the terms which I expressed earlier.
More to the point, it can, and must, take a leading role in this field in view of the added value it offers compared with the individual States.
In order to mobilise the necessary public support for emergency aid, it would be a good idea to give greater publicity to what Europe does and why.
And what this means in terms of ECHO, which is the seed, is that although it does not have to handle all the reconstruction work itself, it does have to make all the necessary preparations.
A number of speakers have already said as much this evening.
Unfortunately, humanitarian aid cannot play this role and must not serve only to bail out a liberal policy which at the same time murders the populations of the countries in receipt of aid.
Systematic training in how to deal with earthquakes and floods as well as in preventing violence would be welcome in many parts of the world.
These could also initiate cooperation with other worldwide organisations in the field of humanitarian aid, beginning with those in Member States, since there is a considerable lack of coordination in their actions.
Venezuela has been waiting since last December for the aid it was promised.
Surely there is nothing more important in developing countries than education.
Debt relief programmes for Third World countries must be put in place permanently.
The joint United Nations programmes on Aids has already estimated that 95% of all HIV-infected individuals live in developing countries.
The Ugandan President has set up a massive programme to deal with the Aids pandemic in his own country.
European Union leaders are meeting in Nice in December to discuss the reform of EU policy programmes.
I must remind you that in Rwanda, in Kosovo, in Mozambique, in Central America, the sacrifices, sometimes of their lives, of those working in cooperation with us, have been some of the most inspiring stories in the history of the European Union.
In the small amount of time I have for this intervention I must add that I agree with the Imbeni report and, in particular, I would like to highlight the following issues.
I have already referred to the problem of human resources, as well as the problem of visibility, and the objectives must be clarified.
In certain cases, in Cuba for example - as you know, Commissioner - in the guise of humanitarian aid, programmes are implemented which are no such thing, but simply a form of concealed cooperation, sometimes for reasons of 'ideological solidarity' with the Castro regime.
But, it is also important that we should acknowledge the enormous amount of good that our help does, day-in day-out, often in extremely difficult circumstances, often in very difficult situations right across the world.
We are the biggest providers of this humanitarian assistance in the world and it is important, occasionally, that we remember that.
In this context, the Commission has decided to focus ECHO's interventions based on a definition of the term "humanitarian" which is, in my judgement, generous and flexible but is not infinitely elastic.
Both Commissioner Nielson and I want to help countries and peoples in emergencies.
The NGO sector is an extremely important channel, but the United Nations and the Red Cross movement are also valued partners.
Mr Imbeni mentioned the important issue of visibility.
The humanitarian aid we give will continue to be governed by the principles of impartiality and non-discrimination laid down in our regulation and accepted by the humanitarian community worldwide.
It is an element of our external identity demonstrating that Europe can act worldwide with one voice and that it can make a difference on the ground.
As the biggest single source of humanitarian aid funding worldwide, as I said earlier, the European Union has a responsibility to be not just the biggest in terms of quantity but the best in terms of delivery.
That is our clear and ambitious goal.
What has most depressed me about the international scene over the years is that, in practice, our ability to deliver humanitarian relief rapidly in the most unpromising circumstances has increased a great deal more than our ability to prevent that humanitarian assistance being necessary in the first place.
The honourable Member's report will make a significant contribution to that .
Thank you very much, Commissioner Patten.
The debate is closed.
