Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 27 October 2000.
My thoughts are also with the many people who were injured in the attack in Madrid on 30 October.
They were happily on their way to ski on the slopes in Austria when 155 of them died in appalling circumstances in the disaster on the Kaprun funicular.
I should like to thank you - I do not know whether anyone else will be speaking about this - on behalf of many Members of this House and, in any case, on behalf of my group and my delegation.
We are united in shock and grief for the 150 people who died and we share in the pain of their relatives.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting The Minutes of the sitting of Friday 27 October have been distributed.
Madam President, I should like to state - also on behalf of my group - that referring this report back to the committee responsible in accordance with Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure would actually be the correct course of action for Parliament to adopt, because I prepared a report and only found out afterwards that the Council had plans in this field.
We have done our job and, in my opinion, our work should be concluded irrespective of the Council' s position.
Relating to Wednesday:With regard to the statement by the Commission on BSE and the ban on animal meal in all animal feedingstuffs, the Group of the Party of European Socialists requests that the Council also make a statement on this matter.
Mrs Napoletano, we could of course proceed in that way.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group regards this incident as being so important that we do not consider it appropriate for it to be dealt with in the topical and urgent debate.
We think that we should address this matter in the form of an oral question to the Council and the Commission, and would like to draft this carefully to ensure that both the Council and the Commission do discuss it.
Madam President, my group has listened carefully to this proposal.
Therefore, under the Treaties and under the Euratom Treaty this issue falls within the competence of the Commission; it affects or may affect many citizens who are not just Spanish, because in this area and its surroundings - and there is no emergency plan in place - there are hundreds of thousands of European citizens from the fifteen countries of the Union as well as many people from outside, because this is the Costa del Sol.
I should therefore like to ask for a formal commitment from the PPE that we should vote together in favour of having this matter included as a question to the Commission and the Council at the next part-session.
Mr Barón Crespo, I would like to make sure I understand you correctly.
I have the impression that you agree with their rationale, Mr Barón Crespo, if I understand you correctly.
Madam President, my group would be in favour of accepting the inclusion of this question on December' s agenda.
Mr Poettering, is that what you intended?
He stayed on to vote on Thursday morning and then his foot was put in plaster.
Madam President, I would like to inform Parliament of a serious initiative undertaken last week in Italy by the regional government of the Lazio region.
Hence Amendments Nos 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8.
The Republic of Portugal presented a draft Protocol amending Article 2 of the Convention on the establishment of a European Police Office, Europol.
This Portuguese initiative aims to extend Europol' s competences in order to establish a general framework of competence for Europol in relation to money laundering.
On the question of democratic accountability, I note that at the moment Article 39 of the Europol Convention requires that the European Parliament simply be consulted on an annual report.
This is quite unacceptable and on several recent occasions, Parliament has requested, in particular in the Nassauer and Cederschiöld reports, modifications to the Europol Convention to ensure true democratic accountability of this agency.
These requests are covered in Amendments Nos 2 and 4 of Mrs Karamanou' s report.
In the more specific area of combating money laundering, we could cite the Council Directive of 10 June 1991, as recently amended, for which our fellow MEP, Mr Lehne, acted as rapporteur.
By virtue of Article 2 of the draft Convention, the Member States can no longer decline to conduct searches or seize items by invoking the reservations set out in Article 5 of the Convention of 1959.
Article 6, for its part, provides for the making of supplementary requests for mutual assistance, and Article 7 states that fiscal exceptions can no longer constitute a reason for refusing mutual assistance.
The non-invocability of banking and commercial secrecy in response to requests for mutual assistance is set down in Article 3.
Furthermore, Article 8 of the draft Convention limits the reasons which Member States may invoke for refusing to provide assistance to "essential interests" .
Article 9 requires the Member States to set up integrated multidisciplinary teams at national level in order to enhance the efficiency of searches and promote information exchanges.
The sole aim of these proposals is to achieve mutual assistance that is as effective as possible and meets the challenges posed by organised crime, particularly in the field of money laundering.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my task is a relatively easy one: if I am supposed to comment on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee on the Portuguese Presidency' s proposal regarding involving Europol in the fight against money laundering, then I can only say that it is a good proposal.
As I have said, that is why I support the proposals on the table today but, at the same time, I would take this opportunity to give you advance notice that there will be a real battle with the Council over the common position on the second directive to combat money laundering.
Political Europe is progressing slowly but, unfortunately, 15 internal borders continue to exist wherever judges and magistrates, legal proceedings and court decisions are concerned.
The Portuguese initiative concerning the Europol Convention is intended to spur the European Parliament into choosing the right route to ensuring security, with this hingeing around a discretionary filing of records on citizens in all the areas affecting their private lives.
Mr President, allow me to start by congratulating our rapporteur, Mr Marinho.
I welcome this debate and discussion.
However, as many speakers have said, there is not enough democratic control and accountability.
We want to see parliamentary involvement in the appointments of the director, and by a majority vote because, when we have enlargement to 28 Member States, it will be very difficult to find everybody agreeing on the identity of the director.
It has to be by a majority vote - we propose two-thirds - and we also want parliamentary involvement in the dismissal of the director, if ever that becomes necessary, by a two-thirds vote as well.
Already today there are about 120 different police forces in the European Union, most of them, I may say, in my own Member State, because in the United Kingdom we have a police force in every single county and they only work up to their county borders.
One example is a person on a money laundering charge, held for 364 days in custody in Portugal without any charge being presented.
Well, here we have another good example: in combating money laundering we may put at stake something that, far from being a lawyer' s privilege, is an essential element in this right to a fair trial, which in turn is an essential element in all our European development, culture and identity.
This report includes a recital on the Geneva appeal, and the Group of the European People' s Party will vote against it, not because we are against the Geneva appeal, but simply because as Parliament we must ensure the quality of legislation.
However, it is also necessary if we are to strengthen the attractiveness of the European Union as a location for business; moreover it is something which the public wants and we must respect their wishes because the people who live in the European Union have a right to security.
The second measure, the second instrument, is harmonisation.
The European Union and we, the European Parliament, are seizing a new opportunity in the fight against organised crime, which preoccupies us to such an extent.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the development of the economy and the phenomenon of globalisation have been accompanied in recent years with an increase in international crime.
Today we are discussing three reports that acknowledge the fact that money laundering lies at the root of organised crime and must therefore be eradicated, wherever it may take place.
I agree with the general thrust of the report, but I harbour some doubts as to the rapporteur' s amendment claiming that this framework decision should also apply to less serious crimes.
The Karamanou report seeks to extend Europol' s competences to cover the crime of money laundering by strengthening police cooperation and by providing Europol with more effective instruments.
Finally, the Roure report seeks to remove a large number of judicial obstacles to mutual legal assistance and, at the same time, provides for the adoption of practical measures designed to strengthen this cooperation.
I would like to see the report' s guideline with regard to the professional confidentiality of lawyers maintained, a guideline that has already received a favourable vote in this Parliament - when the Lehne report on money laundering was adopted.
We also acknowledge here that professional confidentiality is an essential factor in the administration of justice, since any breach of this law could entail a violation of our citizens' civil liberties.
With regard to a compromise situation on this issue, there are two options: either the article in question refers to people who concentrate on certain activities and does not need to mention lawyers or any other professional category, or it refers to lawyers, creating a situation which in itself threatens professional confidentiality, however much the article specifies or defines the activities to which it refers.
For all of these reasons, Mr President, I shall vote against the amendment to Article 3, even as a compromise wording for the legislative proposal.
This was also the subject of the joint Justice and Internal Affairs/Ecofin Council meeting held on 17 October.
We are convinced that this framework decision will constitute a significant advance in enabling common sanctions to be established for all the countries in the European Union.
This means that, with this framework decision, we will have two legal instruments establishing, not just common incriminations, but also common sanctions for two types of offences.
It is my view that, specifically where Mr Marinho suggests that common offences should be defined for those cases that are punished less severely or for other illegal acts provided for in Article 6 of the European Council Convention on money laundering, we ought not to consider this approach straightaway, but base our concern on an assessment of the specific results that are obtained following the implementation of the joint action that was agreed on in December 1998 and which has not yet shown all that it can do.
By the same token, I wish to say that I am aware of the sensitiveness of the issue raised by various Members about the conditions in which the confidentiality of the legal professions may constitute a justified refusal to cooperate in the fight against money laundering.
Lastly, the Commission is also pleased to note the support Parliament has given to extending Europol' s competences to cover all forms of money laundering.
The Karamanou report, on which I should also like to congratulate the rapporteur, proposes various amendments with regard to improving the democratic and judicial control of Europol.
We feel that extending Europol' s competences should be carried out at the same time in all Member States and not in a staggered way, which could lead to greater confusion.
The debate is closed.
The European Union is making progress in the fight against serious crime.
That is why I have proposed to extend the legal base by adding Article 29 of the Treaty on European Union.
Overall the task is so great and so important that it cannot be overseen by the Council alone.
Let us continue to work together on this basis.
One example is her Amendment No 9, which moves that, in future, this initiative should be taken into account in the final decisions made on the Eurojust unit.
There cannot be mutual recognition if there is no mutual trust between States on which to found it.
The clear allocation of fields of intervention to either judicial cooperation or police cooperation is not only needed to prevent any conflict of responsibilities, but is also fundamental in terms of guaranteeing observance of the democratic rules that form the bedrock of the rule of law.
The European Parliament is the supranational Community body that can determine this relationship, and I therefore propose that you support its validity by showing support for our rapporteur.
However, there have been difficulties in the whole area of police and judicial affairs, in particular because of fear or lack of trust with regard to the efficiency or the ability of individual police forces or individual judicial networks to deal with the volume of crime which is now being highlighted at a cross-border level.
Mr President, over this part-session we are going to be called upon to express our opinions on a number of proposals regarding the creation of an area of security and justice.
This is a positive development, and it is therefore gratifying that there should be so much support for it in Parliament.
The creation of Eurojust is part of the European action for fighting organised crime which seeks to strengthen and guarantee the balanced development of police and judicial cooperation in the European Union.
Such would be the case, for example, with a criminal who commits a crime in one Member State and then seeks refuge in another Member State, as their crime has been a serious one.
And this is why I also see in this an important tool for ensuring judicial control of Europol.
It is for this reason that the mutual relationships between Eurojust, Europol and OLAF, in its role as a specialist body for combating fraud, and the existing European judicial network must be clearly defined.
The Commission welcomes your report, Mrs Gebhardt.
I hope that Parliament will adopt it.
We will have the opportunity to make our commitment to this provisional unit from 1 January 2001, but the Commission wants to sustain the debate on the form that the definitive Eurojust unit will take.
The debate is closed.
The FAIR Programme - Fisheries, Agriculture and Agro-Industrial Research - was part of the fourth Framework Programme which ran from 1994 to 1998.
One could argue that there was no need at all for Parliament to deal with these outdated issues any more, because - so people say - the new Commission is of course doing everything better in any case.
Mr President, the Fisheries Committee report was rather brief, in any case.
We can expect a more constructive approach to research when it is done by people interested in research rather than by people who administer the policies, as in the case of agriculture.
The Court of Auditors' report on the FAIR Programme, from which the rapporteur' s report arises, was only published in March this year even though the sector letters regarding the audit were first sent to the Commission in December 1998 and February 1999.
The Court of Auditors' report found a number of significant problems with the management of the FAIR Programme during 1994 to 1998, including a lack of quantified objectives for the programme, making it difficult to fully measure the results, insufficient transparency in selection and evaluation procedures and the management of measures under the programme by three DGs.
One problem which remains is the EUR 3.4 million still to be recovered, 92% of which is accounted for by three files which have been under examination by the Commission' s legal services since July 1996 and August 1997 and whose due dates have expired.
I should just like to touch on a few points which are, in my opinion, decisive for the future work of monitoring research in general.
In Paragraph 59 in the Court of Auditors' report, this is illustrated relatively clearly.
Commissioner, in the near future - and then also with the work of the new Commission in mind - we will have to deal with further Court of Auditors' reports or audit reports, such as the one on the Joint Research Centre, which has turned out to be very critical, but also the special audit report on a very unusual contract with a consultancy firm.
You have underscored, and I would thank you for this, the spirit underlying this report, in your dialogue with the Court of Auditors and the Commission' s services and in the value you attached to it.
As you have emphasised, the FAIR Programme is financed to the tune of 739 million euros.
It has given rise to over 3 300 proposals, more than 600 of which have received funding.
First of all, you should know that responsibility for managing agricultural research has been transferred to the Agriculture DG and the Research DG, following the reorganisation of the Commission' s services, which has resulted in a degree of uniformity in the Agriculture DG' s research procedures.
The same may not apply to research in the field of fisheries, but it has been the case with agriculture.
Thirdly, the Commission has adopted a common procedure for the evaluation of research proposals applicable to all the specific programmes, which can be consulted by the public in the common manual of evaluation procedures.
A common research database has been established.
This may seem a substantial sum, but it in fact only represents 0.3% of total financing under the programme.
There are still some new applications to put into practice, and I would like to take this opportunity to outline the guidelines on Community research that we would like to develop for the next framework programme, and which the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has already examined, since I sent a policy paper to this Parliamentary Committee on 4 October, and it is to draw up a report.
The debate is closed.
