Detergents The next item is the report (A5-0105/2003) by Mr Nobilia, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on detergents [COM(2002) 485 - C5-0404/2002 - 2002/0216(COD)].
They are accurately summarised in Mr Nobilia's report.
In the first place, this proposal supplements, but does not replace, the horizontal legislation on chemicals, in particular the directives on dangerous substances and preparations.
Indeed, detergents are not dangerous in the sense of the Dangerous Preparations Directive.
We need a regulation on detergents to fill this sector-specific limitation in the horizontal legislation.
This proposal provides a framework for addressing issues relating to detergents, as and when they arise.
The Commission believes that its proposal represents an equitable and appropriate balance between the economic, social and environmental pillars of sustainable development.
It will provide the high level of protection of the environment and of human health required by the Treaty, and it will do so at a reasonable cost.
I can only thank them for this, for there is no doubt that, over and above the general intention of introducing one's own ideas into a report, the ultimate goal is to improve the report itself and its effectiveness in the common, general interest.
Incidentally, it therefore appeared necessary to all concerned to set a deadline within which to ask the Commission to express its opinion on the rest of the matter.
The rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs worked together to achieve this undertaking too.
Since, however, there are both technical and political aspects - and there are - and since it is true that the work carried out in the Committee on the Environment has been productive and enjoyed remarkably broad support, then I find it difficult to understand why some of my colleagues, without wishing to undermine everyone's individual right to do so, have tabled further amendments in plenary.
In any case, in this regard, I have to say that I support Amendments Nos 47, 52, 53 and 60, which indisputably make additional important contributions which complement the current provisions.
I also have to say that my feelings are essentially neutral as regards Amendments Nos 56 and 61, which merely change the position of points within the regulation itself, whereas I have to express firm rejection of the remaining amendments, certainly not - to conclude - because I disapprove of their content in principle, nor even because they partially belie the consensus expressed in committee, but because, should they be accepted, they would not achieve what is undeniably the desired objective of the text to be issued, namely providing better protection, but would compromise the cohesiveness, functionality and usability which I mentioned earlier, which is consistent with that phasing-in of the legislation that is based on the scientific approach.
It is an advance for producers and consumers, as well as for the environment.
This is based on the procedure first introduced in the financial services area in order for Parliament to keep some measure of control over the burgeoning comitology systems which are developing in the European Union.
Otherwise we can wholeheartedly support Mr Nobilia's report.
This directive is a forward step in terms of the internal market, because its consequence will be that many national regulations current in Europe will be harmonised, the objective being to have equal and comparable criteria for approval, and especially to ensure the removal of distortions to competition in this area too.
If I may, very much on the spur of the moment, consider the amendments tabled by the Greens, I do not think that all of them are wrong, but, yet again, their tendency is to enable the big players to perform these services, so that the small ones inevitably go to the wall.
Madam President, I would like, once again, to express my full support for the Commission's proposal, which combines in this regulation the five existing directives on the biodegradability of surfactants, and to express my appreciation of the work of the rapporteur, who has helped to make the proposal more cohesive, preserving a very constructive relationship with the other groups, which means that the final product we are submitting for the vote in plenary has broad backing.
The key aspects of this regulation are health, consumer safety and the protection of and respect for the environment.
The fact that the scope of the regulation has been confined to the biodegradability of the surfactants contained in detergents does not limit the application of these principles.
Moreover, I agree with the principle that the possibility of introducing legislation on individual products should be provided for, with a view to imposing more stringent requirements in the field of safety, use and environmental protection than those already laid down by horizontal legislation.
These proposals are realistic and cautiously ambitious, they improve to my mind on the Commission's draft proposals.
However, I am very conscious of the need to ensure that we secure cross-party support, if the powers of this House to improve environment legislation are to be brought to bear.
We can sometimes make gestures at first reading, securing major amendments for radical reform, but they matter not at all if we cannot get agreement at second reading, if we cannot secure that qualified majority; and to make progress we need to take account both of our ambitions for the environment and of legitimate concerns for industry.
The problem therefore is not whether the bath of hot water is half-full or empty, but that too many Member States are not putting the plug into the bath in the first place.
That should be the number-one concern, not only of the European Environment Bureau, but also of those who care in this House and in the Commission about ensuring that we move forward together to improve Europe's environment.
But the Commissioner has also said that this is good for the Internal Market.
All the groups have however reached a compromise on eight points and this is one of them.
Of course we are running ahead of the legislation on chemistry that is still to come, but it is not our fault that the Commission has waited so long to table this legislation.
Indeed, we still do not have it and we are hoping across the whole Parliament, in all the political parties, that the Commission really will table this new legislation before the summer.
What we have decided is that the detergent manufacturers must state very clearly that these substances are present.
This gives people the choice of using them or not and will probably in any event lead to the big detergent manufacturers not putting them in any more.
Another important point concerns phosphates.
If there are other aspects for which Member States have laid down stricter legislation, these Member States should not be forced to amend their legislation.
Commissioner, this proposal for a regulation, which is designed to simplify existing legislation, is entirely within the framework of sustainable development, quite simply because it concerns an environmental issue, an issue which might also be related to public health and consumer policy.
We all want to significantly reduce the quantities used and the toxicity of the various ingredients in detergents.
There, too, consumer policy is concerned, since it is up to consumers, in other words each one of us, to rationalise our use of detergents.
Efforts have already been made at this level by companies in the sector, by means of codes of good practice or the organisation of campaigns to increase public information and awareness.
It is essential to continue research in this sector in order to find substances that are equally effective in terms of hygiene but less harmful to the environment.
More specifically, with regard to the issue of animal experiments - we have already spoken about this enough in this House, amongst other occasions, when we had to decide on the cosmetics issue - we should encourage the use, wherever possible, of in vitro testing methods and other alternative methods.
Throughout our water systems, our great rivers and even down to the sea we see the effects of these substances being pumped into the environment, on a daily basis.
Indeed, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs have worked well together to come up with a package that is worthy of the support of this House.
Phosphates are the key question buried inside this proposal.
Phosphates are the trigger and often the clear cause of eutrification in many different waters across the European Union.
We know that detergents are a major source of phosphates.
Taking phosphates out of detergents would probably bring down the level of phosphates in our rivers, lakes and oceans to the point where we would not have to be concerned about the problem of eutrification again.
If we do, we will see that as a consequence of development in eastern and central Europe, there will be a continuing problem of eutrification caused by phosphates in rivers across the whole of the Union.
If there is a problem with this proposal as it stands, we have not done enough on phosphates.
That would also be appropriate in the light of the codecision procedure and the European Parliament's influence on legislation.
The fact that a detergent has passed the biodegradability test does not make it impossible for it to have generated other metabolites that are difficult to break down and that can cause very major problems for the environment.
Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the high quality of his work and on his resolve to reintroduce into the text of the regulation Article 174 of the Treaty on environmental policy.
In a word, Article 95 of the Treaty must not take precedence over prudent and rational use of natural resources.
The restriction of the use of dangerous substances known as surfactants, which are harmful to the environment as they are hardly biodegradable at all and are dangerous in terms of public health for those who handle these detergents on a daily basis.
We must avoid repeating the mistake made in revising the directive on cosmetic products, which banned such tests without ensuring that reliable alternative methods exist.
We must also take care not to wrong small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in a detergent market dominated by four or five heavyweights, for which this new legislation will not cause any particular problems.
On the other hand, SMEs that produce small quantities of specialised detergents, known as industrial and commercial products, operate in a niche market.
I wish, however, to make a few comments on two issues that I consider to be extremely important and on which I tabled proposals for amendments in the Committee on Industry.
The second issue, which was unfortunately not adopted in committee, concerns the obligation on manufacturers to provide any health care professional with a datasheet listing all the ingredients of a detergent.
In this area, I think it is crucial to allow Member States, on the one hand, to appoint the body or bodies responsible for receiving this information and, on the other, to take the necessary measures to ensure that the bodies and health care professionals charged with receiving this information provide the necessary guarantees of confidentiality.
This information can only be used when there is a medical need to take preventive and curative action, in particular, in cases of emergency, with the Member States being responsible for ensuring that this information is not used for other purposes.
Information on preparations is extremely sensitive and can only be passed on to bodies or health care professionals bound by the duty of confidentiality.
Madam President, I too think that this is a good proposal.
It is important for us to guarantee free movement for detergents, but I think it is still more important that the detergents we put on the market should damage neither the environment nor people's health and that, as consumers, we should always know the nature of the everyday items we buy in the shops.
I am able to support the proposals concerning bans on the use of carcinogenic and other poisonous substances in detergents, and I am also able to support the supplementary proposal to the effect that the ban should include those chemicals that are difficult to break down, together with hormone-disturbing chemicals.
I agree with the rapporteur that those Member States that have implemented restrictive rules governing the use of phosphates in detergents must be able to uphold these rules, and I think it is important for us now, at EU level too, to address the issue of phosphates.
To a large extent, they use their own labels, and I am therefore able to support Amendment No 48, based on the idea that, if other environmental labels are used, it must be stated in what way they differ from the EC's official environmental label.
Finally, I would say, on the subject of animal experiments, that I am fully able to support the amendments designed to restrict animal experiments.
To the extent that there are any alternative methods at all, we must naturally try to use these and, ultimately, I also think we should put pressure on industry and manufacturers to develop alternative methods in those cases in which these still do not exist, so preventing as many animal experiments as is humanly possible.
Madam President, I, too, find the proposal disappointing.
This Regulation does too much about the effects on water and far too little - hardly anything at all, in fact - about any exposure assessment covering consumers and those who work in the production process.
We are now making reasonable technical progress so that the use of detergents might constitute as small a burden on the environment as possible.
What is now given in Annex VIII, although improved by the Committee's amendment, is still too approximate in this regard.
Although the directive on advice to consumers is only half complete, I think that detergent manufacturers could voluntarily increase consumer awareness and so also reduce the burden on the environment.
Madam President, cleaning products are necessary, but they are also a source of pollution.
They have done good work in improving the Commission's proposal.
There are four points I should like to make.
Amendment No 49 from the Group of the Party of European Socialists is very clear in this regard.
Thirdly, it must be clear that exceptions are only permitted under very strict conditions.
Exceptions can only be made if the environment and of course public health are served.
Finally, there must be clear, honest and transparent information available.
Madam President, when we came in this morning there was a distinct smell of cigars in this Chamber.
These address a number of areas, including the complementary risk-assessments for surfactants that fail the ultimate biodegradability tests, so that a tiered approach can take into account exposure and risk.
Then we had the compromise on phosphates.
We know from our Scandinavian colleagues that, provided there is good water and sewage treatment, phosphates can result in lower volumes of detergents being used and also lower water temperatures being necessary.
The Stockholm water authority found that with phosphate substitutes there were on average ten times more suspended solids in their effluent, leading to a substantial increase in sludge; whereas phosphate products were found to be less damaging in terms of eco-toxicity towards micro-organisms.
Research by the Dutch Institute of Environmental Sciences showed that use of phosphate-free detergents resulted in no improvement in surface water quality and led to eutrification worse, in many cases, than that experienced when phosphate-based detergents are used.
I believe that the other countries, who have not yet adopted legislation to this effect, should align themselves as fast as possible, not just in order to employ and display greater sensitivity but so as to ensure that there is greater focus on environmental requirements and, moreover, to provide the consumer with more information.
They affect all consumers, and, even though this regulation is somewhat technical in nature, it ultimately concerns all consumers, in other words all the people of Europe.
Perhaps I could group the questions around six groups of amendments on which I can comment one by one.
Firstly, a number of the amendments seek to improve the wording of the Commission's text and can be accepted.
The Commission cannot accept amendments that introduce policy statements that go beyond the scope of this proposal.
Many substances and preparations are already adequately regulated by the horizontal chemicals legislation.
The extension of biodegradability testing to all substances and preparations at this stage would be a disproportionate and unjustifiable measure.
Fourthly, on labelling - detergents legislation is supplementary to the horizontal chemicals legislation and must therefore be compatible with it.
Member States also have the right to request ingredient information from manufacturers for use by their poison centres.
A minimum data set is necessary to evaluate the request for derogation; this is what we have specified in annex IV; if, in addition, further data is required by a Member State for an evaluation, it can request as much or as little as is needed.
The Commission's priority in this matter is to establish a sound scientific basis for action at Community level.
There is no urgent need at EU level on this matter.
Those Member States that feel particularly vulnerable to the environmental effects of phosphates have already taken national measures.
Finally, I would like to say that the Commission can accept in whole or in part amendments 2, 4, 8, 17 to 19, 22 (partly), 27 (partly), 34 to 37 - but only a part of amendment 37 - and 53.
The Commission can accept in principle amendments 3, 21, 31, 45, 46 and 52.
The debate is closed.
Existing chemicals legislation states that, as soon as a substance or preparation has been classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction, it must be included in this annex and not released onto the market.
This proposal applies to 44 new substances which must be added to this list.
I believe we are all agreed that that is a very good thing that this be done and that we must of course adopt the proposal to add these substances.
When Parliament debated this matter for the first time, we considered that there were two deficiencies in existing legislation that we very much wanted to remedy.
It can therefore be stated that Parliament's proposal concerning cosmetic products has been accepted.
When it came to consumer articles, there were three main reasons why the Council wanted to reject Parliament's amendments.
There has also been a proposal from the Commission to the effect that, since the use of chemicals by consumers cannot be controlled, safety can only be ensured by prohibiting the general use of substances and preparations that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction.
If there are now so many products containing, for example, carcinogenic substances, there is surely genuine reason to take action instead of merely saying that, because there are such a lot of products, nothing can be done.
That is very commendable, and I am really pleased about it.
I believe that the proposal it may be possible to put before Parliament some time in June concerning the new chemicals legislation will also take these products into account.
I have therefore chosen to recommend to Parliament that, on the grounds that we have had our proposals concerning cosmetic products accepted, it adopt this second-reading recommendation concerning the Council's common position.
The aims of the proposed directive are to guarantee the free movement of chemical substances and preparations and to improve health protection and consumer safety by prohibiting the placing of CMR substances on the market for use by the general public.
To conclude, the Commission believes that its proposal not only provides for the protection of consumers' health, but also preserves the internal market by the introduction of harmonised rules.
Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I welcome and support this proposal.
It is a step forward that 44 new substances recognised as CMRs have been added to the list of banned substances and are going to be removed from products and other uses within the Union.
However, I agree with the Commission that this issue has much wider implications than simply controlling 44 chemicals in our existing proposal and their potential dangers.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the Commission statement on the crisis on the international coffee market.
Mr President, the Commission is well aware of the difficulties posed by the fall in world coffee prices for the many farmers in the developing world who rely on coffee for their livelihoods.
We are supporting the ICO coffee resolution 407 and requested the European Coffee Federation to conduct independent monitoring.
As proposed by the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 19 November 2002, we have requested the ICO to undertake a worldwide comparative analysis of coffee growing areas.
It concerns many other commodities and commodity-dependent countries.
Falling and volatile prices are indeed a major threat to the sustainable development of some of the poorest countries in the world.
Two recent communications from the Commission, on rural development and on trade and development, provide a clear policy framework to address the problem of commodity dependence.
There have been calls for action on trade policy.
ACP countries also have very high levels of access to the EU market under existing agreements, and access will increase under the Cotonou Agreement.
To improve the competitiveness of the coffee sector and broaden the export base in developing countries, we also need to support the full integration of commodity issues into the long-term development strategies of the developing countries.
As mentioned in the EP resolution, efforts should include support to producer efforts in diversification, organisational strengthening and tapping into niche markets.
Future economic partnership agreements with the ACP, as well as comprehensive and coherent development assistance, would be very helpful in supporting the implementation of the strategies.
Direct intervention in commodity markets through price support or stock destruction does not offer a sustainable solution.
The Commission remains open to proposals for action from all actors.
These mushrooms, for example shitaki mushrooms, are of high nutritional value and produce a much higher price per kilo on the market than coffee does.
Once the mushrooms have done their job and soaked up the caffeine, the remnants may be used as animal feed.
As everyone without exception will surely appreciate, this presupposes, however, knowledge derived from a variety of research disciplines and not a one-sided focus upon a single crop.
The issue must nonetheless be addressed, and this must happen immediately within the framework of the whole Doha process and, above all, within the framework of our continued cooperation with those countries within our immediate purview.
It should be possible to make use of the major surpluses within the European Development Fund to step up our efforts in the field of rural development - rural development that would then become more diversified in form than it would by focusing solely upon individual crops.
Through dialogue with the big coffee producers and retailers, it should also be possible to ensure that better wagers are paid to the indigent coffee planters.
Twenty-seven ACP countries are dependent on coffee.
It is that background knowledge, which the Commissioner outlined, that explains why it is so serious that world coffee prices have crashed by more than 60% in the last decade.
The EU boasts about having a trade and aid approach to international solidarity.
The EU Member States make up 15 of the 21 importing country members of the International Coffee Organisation.
That makes us a key player in the market and with key responsibilities to the coffee-producing countries.
The Commissioner mentioned the communication, which clearly is not now going to be on the table in time for the ICO and world high-level round-table meeting in London.
In the free market their global reach gives them unprecedented options.
Last year in Uganda I met a farmer who was selling a kilogram of her coffee beans for 150 Ugandan shillings.
The four big companies together buy almost half the coffee beans produced around the world.
The EU has real authority in the ICO and we have a responsibility in the round-table meeting to hammer out policies which will give the farmers an opportunity to live their lives with dignity and financial security.
Mr President, the coffee market is currently undergoing a serious crisis.
As a result of the absence of an international system to stabilise coffee prices and prices of raw materials in general, the situation of coffee farmers is not viable.
As the main importer of coffee, the European Union bears the main responsibility in resolving this crisis.
The European Union must set up an urgent programme, financed with the funds remaining from previous EDFs, in order to make up the shortfall in revenue of the people and countries concerned.
We call on the Commission to produce a communication on basic products as a matter of urgency.
The European Union must support diversification in Southern farmers' production and high-quality agriculture, and contribute to increasing the power of coffee farmers against the agri-foods industries.
In particular, the Commission must support the establishment of fair trade structures and facilitate market access for fair trade products.
A Commission communication on this matter is becoming increasingly necessary.
The matter of stabilising prices for raw materials, upon which the majority of the least developed countries depend, must be approached in the context of multilateral trade negotiations.
The European Union must use all its power at the WTO Ministerial Conference in Cancun to ensure that trade with developing countries becomes fairer.
As major coffee companies, Nestlé, Kraft, Sara Lee and Procter and Gamble cannot continue to get away with lining their pockets.
They must agree to adopt codes of ethical practice in agreement with the ILO and the UN and pay a fair price for raw materials, a price that reflects the social and environmental costs of coffee-growing and production.
If farmers and workers in the coffee sector are to receive fair remuneration, fair trade is not just another option but the only sustainable global solution.
Mr President, it is not the big international companies that are suffering during the coffee crisis.
At a meeting in the European Parliament to debate the coffee crisis, Louis Belinda from Uganda gave the following answer. 'We have no alternative to coffee growing,' he said. 'We have given fisheries a try, but EU regulations prevented that.
The EU is therefore largely responsible for the fact that 25 million coffee growers are now threatened with extreme poverty, all the more so because the EU itself gave the developing countries the fatal advice to pin their hopes on coffee production.
Mr Wijkman had a solution involving mushrooms.
Countries such as Burundi, Ethiopia and Uganda rely on coffee exports for more than 50% of their income.
Due to the law of supply and demand, however, market value is unstable and, when prices fall, the multinationals that control the market take steps to preserve their profit margins.
The entire drop in the market value is therefore passed on to small farmers and plantation workers, so much so that consumers in developed countries do not even see a drop in the price of their cup of coffee.
What coffee farmers need is an international coffee market that is regulated to a greater degree, to prevent overproduction taking hold, so that the quality of products is guaranteed and controlled, so that profits in this sector are divided fairly and so that decent working conditions are guaranteed.
Let us hope that we remember this lesson at the next round table of the International Coffee Organisation, at the next G8 summit and, most importantly, at the next WTO Ministerial Conference in Cancun in September.
All the political groupings are aware of the disastrous impact that this fall in coffee prices will have on the economy of a number of the poorest countries in the world.
At the same time, however, we are all raising our hands to the heavens as a sign of impotence and proposing that a particular international summit should add the issue to the agenda, and giving good advice on retraining or diversification, and proposing lessons in popularisation for the peasants we are suffocating, and we are calling for a little something to be released to help the worst affected countries.
In other words, this means that prices are established by these four trusts.
As if poor peasants in Rwanda, Ethiopia or Haiti could oppose Nestlé and its counterparts, when the European Parliament does not dare to do so!
The simple fact that the common resolution mentions the four coffee trusts responsible for price reductions makes the representatives of the ELDR group's skin crawl, so much so that they are calling for the paragraph that mentions the trusts to be deleted.
What is true for coffee is also true for the other raw materials, particularly oil.
Those who have bombed Iraq, killing civilians, women and children claim they are doing so in order to free Iraq from its dictator.
In order to put an end to this pillaging of the planet to increase the wealth of a few trusts, in order to put an end to the flagrant inequality between the wealthy in wealthy countries and the poor in poor countries, and in order to prevent the poor being starved to death or being massacred in wars designed to preserve this situation, we have absolutely no other option but to put an end to the international economic system.
Speaking towards the end of this debate it is inevitable that I will repeat many of the themes that my colleagues have already raised here this morning.
However, that demonstrates the strength and the unity of concern in this Parliament about this issue and our serious determination to do something more about it.
The current situation where coffee prices are the lowest in real terms for at least 100 years, leaves, as others have said, more than 25 million poor families facing ruin, unable to put enough food on the table, unable to send their children to school, unable to buy the most basic medicines.
At the same time four companies control over half of world coffee sales and their revenues have been spiralling upwards to over USD 100 billion a year, at the same time as some of the poorest families in the world have seen their incomes disappear into nothing.
We in this House often face disasters with feelings of hopelessness, of powerlessness; we wonder what can we do about this and we cannot necessarily think of anything.
However, on this occasion it is very different: there is plenty the European Union could and should be doing to address this particular issue.
EU Member States account for 15 of the 21 importing country members of the International Coffee Organisation.
This gives us the resources to make a real difference, and we should focus on quick-dispersing initiatives which are designed to provide decentralised budget support to coffee-growing areas, to ameliorate the effects of the coffee crisis on access to health care and education.
The Commission also needs to give greater support to fair-traded coffee and better access for such coffee to EU markets.
I would like to ask the Commissioner this: will the Commission support the proposal of East Africa to place commodities on the next WTO agenda in Cancun, so that we can demonstrate that this so-called Doha development round is more than just rhetoric, it is action as well?
It is inevitable that such an incongruity must come to an end, and this must form part of an action plan on the part of the European Union.
It is not enough to consider this concept in isolation and see it as the cure for all ills.
Any action plan by the Commission must of necessity include a proposal as to how goods can be fairly traded under present conditions.
In this area, we owe a debt to the developing countries.
I think this amendment should satisfy the Socialist Party.
Mr President, I would like to emphasise the fact that it is quite typical of the way Parliament is removed from reality to have voted on the Morillon report at the end of the sitting, after the vote on detergents and motor vehicles. - (DA) The proposal does not promote animal welfare, but the convenience of livestock owners at animals' expense.
The June Movement is voting against the proposal.
We are indignant, however, that the European Parliament wishes to use certain phrases that appear to protect the individual or condemn profit to prohibit in practice, once again, therapeutic cloning, and, more generally, medical research on human cells and tissues.
Preventing research in this field means prohibiting in advance, in the name of reactionary ideas, everything that could in future help to treat or even cure these diseases.
Out of solidarity for researchers and sufferers of these diseases, we therefore voted against this report and against all the amendments, many of them worded in an equivocatory fashion, which aim to make the situation worse. . (PT) I wish to start by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work.
My votes have closely matched the outcome already reached in the specialist committee, all the more because the amendments tabled by the rapporteur were drafted with the cooperation of our group too.
Furthermore, it prohibits research into human cloning for reproductive purposes and the creation of human embryos solely for the purpose of research or of extracting stem cells.
In some fields, such as the use of foetal tissue, I preferred the text produced by the specialist committee - but since this was rejected in plenary, I broadly welcome the adoption of the amendment that I tabled as the second alternative.
The issue of property rights has created confusion as to what is a discovery and what is an invention.
The problem is that the broad majority of research currently taking place is not public.
In this context, the sale, even when voluntary, of human cells and tissue (such as blood, for example) must be totally banned.
If nobody in the European Parliament wishes to defend human cloning, we cannot resolve this issue by the back door, in other words by the roundabout means of a recital or article referring to another subject.
If some States wish to ban this kind of research at national level, they are free to do so and do not require an authorisation from the European Parliament.
In any case, the biotechnological revolution will take place with or without Europe.
This is the reason why I have voted against the Liese report. . (NL) In September 2000 rapporteur Liese secured the support of a small majority in this Parliament for his rejection of the use of human material as a means of curing disease and rectifying abnormalities in human bodies.
This proposal provides too few solutions and too many prohibitions.
This will prevent Member States from adopting a vanguard position in the difficult search for solutions. . (PT) In the debate on this directive that has taken place in the European Parliament over the last few months there are two issues on which no consensus has been reached with regard to their compliance with the principles that have just been referred to.
On the first issue, I believe that, in order to prevent the commercialisation of the human body, we must do more than simply recommend to the Member States that they promote voluntary and unpaid donation.
The directive must state, quite unequivocally, that the donation of tissue or cells can only be done out of the donor's free will and always without payment, except possibly for compensation to reimburse travel expenses or light refreshments.
The proposal added a further two sweeteners to the positive list of permitted sweeteners.
The June Movement is therefore voting against the overall proposal. . (PT) Some people have specific dietary requirements and sweeteners provide considerable advantages for these individuals, in particular allowing them to use products containing fewer calories.
The work by Mrs Ferreira is to be welcomed and I would highlight, in particular, her proposal for the dose of cyclamic acid to be reduced to 250 mg/l.
The Liberal Group regrets the adoption, by one vote, of Amendment No 4, which calls for a reassessment of the authorisation of aspartame and improved, specific labelling for products containing this sweetener.
Having said that, before discussing this matter, we must be aware that the real problem posed by sweeteners is not their alleged toxicity but the risk of nurturing this taste for sugar, which is a true sign of our times. . (PT) I congratulate Mr Nobilia on his report.
With regard to form, this text makes intelligent use of the right of initiative which Article 67 of the EC Treaty reserves provisionally for the Member States in this field.
In theory, this right should have been abolished on 1 May 2004 and the monopoly on initiative should revert in full to the Commission.
We hope that the Member States will be able to stop this disastrous process at the next intergovernmental conference.
The shocking conditions of these expulsions, however, which have led to death in transit, have been brought to light, not to mention imprisonment in the destination countries.
It is against this backdrop that the European Parliament has been presented with a draft Council directive aiming to harmonise and regulate assistance, within the framework of repatriation with or without an escort, in transit airports within the European Union.
The report which has been proposed to validate this codification of expulsions is, however, particularly hypocritical.
For all these reasons, we voted against this resolution and we shall continue to support all those who want to put an end to these expulsions. . (PT) The Commission is now launching this debate, belatedly and not in full public view, when it has already given into pressure by the biotechnology multinationals to lift the moratorium on GMOs.
This contamination is uncontrollable.
Left to free competition alone, genetic selection tends to be concentrated among a few companies, the number of varieties placed on the market is restricted and local varieties disappear.
If we accept an upper limit for contamination today, even a low limit, tomorrow we shall be forced to revise it upwards, leading us into a vicious circle of adjustments that will ultimately result in the full release of GMOs.
This view also accords with draft Article 22 of the Europol Convention, presented by the EU Convention's Praesidium. . (PT) We are now hearing the final echo of the observations that were made yesterday about the Turco and von Boetticher reports.
As I stated in my explanations of vote on those reports, it is possible and necessary to move ahead within the current legal framework - which was the intention of the four initiatives of the Danish and Greek Presidencies.
We do not however agree with Paragraph 11 and Recital L.
Each of us must have concern for those who suffer the horrors of addiction and we must do all that is possible to assist them to recover from their addiction: facilitating the use of drugs is not the way to assist them.
The current UN Conventions set out clear guidelines for all countries to apply their own national law and enforcement procedures.
Each country should cooperate in reviewing the options for minimising drug misuse and ensure that there is fast and effective treatment to help individuals in their need to put drug misuse behind them. . (PT) This report makes a broadly positive assessment of the current situation and of the proposals to be presented at the UN Ministerial Conference, which will take place on 16 and 17 April, in Vienna.
Nevertheless, other recommendations should be included, specifically on the need to change the framework of international trade, which is economically imbalanced, on resolving the problem of the indebtedness of the least-developed countries, on encouraging the cultivation of farm produce to replace drug crops and on the use of products to replace drug consumption.
As regards the so-called drugs tables, we acknowledge that there is a need for some adjustment to the current situation, although this must always be done on a scientific basis, specifically with regard to changing the position of drugs within the table. . (PT) As I said during the debate, this is not the time to weaken or to give the idea that our determination in combating drugs and the blight they represent is waning.
MEPs sensitive to the views of their constituents share their grave concern about the menace of drugs and drug trafficking to our young people and to our societies in general.
The police and prosecuting authorities, the courts, and the prison services bear a heavy burden in seeking to uphold and enforce the law and to protect our citizens from this menace.
It may be that, after full inquiry, the international community should adopt new approaches in relation to certain problems and anomalies.
It would therefore be wonderful if drugs did not exist or if no one had any need of them.
Many young people experience the use of soft drugs as an inalienable freedom and there are also profiteers who happily make people dependent on the use of expensive hard drugs.
It is on the basis of their opportunities for keeping track of legislative work that people can evaluate elected representatives and subsequently make decisions in general elections.
The EU institutions can provide information about which decisions are made, and how, but it is the right of the independent mass media to make judgments themselves concerning current affairs and to decide what they are to provide information about.
It is we politicians who must take responsibility for giving out political messages and political information, something that obviously applies both to choosing the points at issue and setting them out before people.
If the European Union were to implement a policy opposing mass redundancies, by obliging employers to use current and past profits to ensure that jobs are maintained, and if unemployment were to be reduced as a result, a communication strategy would not be necessary: word of mouth would suffice! . (PT) Of course we do not dispute the need for the citizens of the various countries that make up the EU to be better informed about the policies that are promoted in their countries and, it goes without saying, about the consequences of these policies.
We believe the lack of popularity of the EU is due to the fact that its current priorities are neither democracy nor solidarity, but free trade, jeopardising public services and creating a policed fortress Europe.
The question, therefore, is not how better to organise institutional propaganda that is far removed from reality, but to find ways to present clearly to the citizens the debates on tomorrow's Europe and enable them to make themselves heard at every level.
This document unabashedly crosses the line between information and misinformation, communication and propaganda.
Propaganda is, indeed, the right word to use when we read, for example, that the European Union's communication strategy should rely on the support of opinion formers, target information to different population groups using attractive media such as sport and formulate messages in such a way that they can easily be included in education systems.
One only has to recall that 50% of Europeans is ignorant of, or indifferent to, the Union and that the rate of turnout in elections to the European Parliament fell from 63% in 1979 to 49% in 1999.
In order to improve the effectiveness of EU information campaigns, every message must be clear, impartial, accessible and available in every citizen's own language.
Impartiality and doctrinal pluralism are the main victims of this propagandist form of 'information', which is clearly discriminatory, frequently confusing electoral propaganda with information about the institutions.
Along the same practical and effective lines, the report urges the Council to open to the public meetings in which it exercises legislative powers and regrets the fact that the Commission is still not setting an example for respecting linguistic diversity on many websites ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) We are in favour of a common foreign policy in the EU and recommend that the EU put resources into preventive work, mediation and crisis management.
We cannot therefore support a common military defence, increased defence costs financed from the Community budget or a collective defence clause.
We have declined to vote in favour of the desire for a protocol to the Treaty, adding a collective defence clause for those Member States that wish to divide the obligations embedded in Article V of the Brussels Treaty and so bring the Western European Union to an end.
It pays no attention to what should be the main principle, the free participation of countries and variable geometry of associations.
On the other hand, however, great emphasis is placed on the need to develop the competences of the existing European institutions and the inclusion of costs in the Community budget (Paragraphs 40, 56 and 57 of the resolution).
The Iraq crisis has shown the extent to which this organisation was outdated.
In any case, however, this report is not realistic, as it asserts both the competence of the national parliaments with regard to the use of national forces and that of the European Parliament in relation to approving operations.
All that is contradictory.
The only possible solution is for the nations to have greater authority and for their parliaments to bear the main responsibility.
We therefore voted against this report. . (FR) The current division between the Member States on key foreign policy issues is lamentable.
If we want the European Union to defend its objectives and its values on the international stage and contribute to peace, freedom and stability in the world, in accordance with the principles of the United Nations and international law, it urgently needs to develop a genuine ESDP as an integral part of the CFSP.
This ESDP must be based on the principle of security, a security that is common to Europe and the rest of the world, a sustainable security based on equality, justice and reciprocity, a security based on respect for human rights, democratic control and international law.
That is the key message of this report, and that is why I shall support it. . (FR) In order to make its voice better heard, Europe must strengthen its common foreign and security policy, including with regard to military crisis management.
It is only by shouldering its responsibilities more firmly with regard to its own security that the European Union can exist and make its choices count in the essential dialogue with the United States, within a multipolar global framework.
The Treaty on the European Defence Community (EDC) remains a useful source of inspiration.
The European Commission could manage the technological and industrial aspects subject to competition rules.
A Council of Defence Ministers should be created in cooperation with the national parliaments, while the European Parliament should be the democratic body for monitoring and codecision.
Consequently, we have voted against the report.
We totally reject this approach. . (FR) General Morillon's report specifies the ambitions of a security and defence policy for the European Union.
The report even believes that European military force should be capable by 2009 of carrying out an operation of the level and intensity of the Kosovo conflict within European territory.
In federations many powers are in the hands of the individual states, but only the federation decides on foreign policy and defence.
On the other hand the EU Member States have so far retained their own ministers of Foreign Affairs, their own embassies, their separate seats at the United Nations and their armies.
This contrast is causing some Members of this Parliament to start working towards a single EU representative on the Security Council and a single European army, with a view to becoming the second world superpower alongside the United States of America.
My party, the Socialist Party in the Netherlands, considers this a mistaken development.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports this compromise resolution on the human rights situation in Guatemala.
I am very glad that this issue is on today's agenda.
The issue of land and of the way in which it is shared out is without doubt a key to future development in Guatemala and in its neighbouring countries, and, at the end of 2002, MEPs belonging to different groups organised a conference on the subject.
Something else that is very important - and I am glad that it has been incorporated into the Joint Resolution - is that any policy must have education and training as one of its basic components.
It is the indigenous population that is clearly suffering most and that has no access to healthy food, that has no access to a good education and that has no access to land.
The women are the biggest victims of all because they simply do not count, although in many cases it is they who have to provide alone for very large, extended families.
All this to underline that just one of the countries for which we had some hope a few years ago is threatening to slip back into a state of impunity again, the agreements of 1996 remaining a dead letter.
It is vital that we remember the victims of the current increase in violence and call on the government to protect their rights: human rights, the right of freedom of association and freedom of belief.
There must be a recognition of their work and their rights on the land and within the country.
Mr President, this is an important issue.
The Commission is monitoring very closely the situation in Guatemala, where, as a number of speakers have said this afternoon, mounting infringements of the rule of law and human rights, as well as the deepening polarisation within Guatemalan society, are causing increasing political and social tension on the eve of the 2003 elections.
At the same time, difficult access to food, extreme poverty and social protest are increasingly alarming issues.
Within this unfortunate and unhappy scenario, in line with the resolution on Guatemala that the European Parliament issued in April 2002, the Commission is reinforcing the political dialogue and cooperation initiatives.
During the last months, the Commission has also participated in various EU actions to transmit to the Supreme Court of Justice and the local authorities our preoccupation about the increasing wave of threats, attacks and violence in that country.
In May 2002 the Commission adopted a strategy for cooperation with Guatemala during the period 2002 to 2006.
It is also worth mentioning that Guatemala is a priority country under the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights.
As Members of Parliament will know, there will be a further Consultative Group meeting scheduled in Guatemala City for 13 and 14 May 2003.
At that meeting the Commission and Member States will urge the Guatemalan authorities and society to renew efforts to accelerate the implementation of the Peace Agenda signed in 1996, especially in those areas where unsatisfactory results have been registered so far, such as the justice system, rural development, and the situation of the indigenous people.
Finally, the Commission stands ready to support Guatemala in monitoring the next electoral process and guaranteeing a transparent and democratic transfer of power - as it did for the last elections in 1999.
During his visit to Brussels in January 2003 Minister Gutiérrez, asked for the support of the European Union.
The Supreme Electoral Tribunal has also asked for our support.
The Commission and Member States will decide whether to prepare an EU electoral observation mission on the basis of an exploratory mission that will be sent in May 2003.
Mr President, it is no accident that Cuba is the only Latin American country not linked to the European Union by virtue of an association or cooperation agreement.
Fidel Castro is evidently afraid of nothing so much as his own people.
To this end the Commission office was recently opened in Havana.
If the political detainees are not released, the question arises as to what the point is of a political dialogue and of a European Union office.
I would like to hear what Commissioner Bolkestein has to say on the subject.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the Socialist Group fully and unequivocally supports the motion for a resolution we are now discussing.
The Socialist Group protests with great indignation at the monstrous wave of repression that has crashed down on anyone who dares to dissent, disagree, think differently or create freely in Cuba.
The Cuban dictator has had intellectuals, journalists, political dissidents and members of the Varela project arrested and brutally repressed, using the usual pretexts and means employed by any common or garden dictatorship: spying on its citizens, arbitrary imprisonment, court-room farces and absurd sentences.
The cynical, barefaced and shameless breach of fundamental freedoms and human rights now represents a challenge and a provocation thrown down by Fidel Castro to all citizens and democratic countries.
I fervently hope that democracy will triumph in Cuba and that the admirable Cuban people will regain the freedom of assembly, the freedom of association, the freedom to demonstrate, the freedom of speech, and the freedom to travel beyond their island.
In short, I pray that the Cuban people recover the dreams which underpinned a revolution that I have always supported, but whose most important ideas have been betrayed and negated.
The Cuban dictator Fidel Castro has carried out this action with shocking cynicism and brutality, taking advantage of the international crisis, in the belief that since the world's attentions are currently focused on another part of the globe - Iraq - international attention would be shifted and would therefore allow him to unleash all his rage and fury on those citizens who disagree with him.
We cannot abandon our Cuban brothers and sisters to their fate and we must show that awarding the Sakharov Prize serves some purpose.
A European Parliament delegation must go to Cuba without delay to meet these detainees and particularly Oswaldo Payá.
This is important and is to be welcomed but it is not enough.
We must do more; we must send a clear message to the Cuban dictator that we do not accept this, and that we shall not concede on this matter.
We must put Cuba's application for Cotonou membership on hold, and we must show quite clearly that we are prepared to support the Cuban situation changing to become a regime of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, but also that we shall not give in to any backsliding and particularly to any renewal of this Stalinist brutality.
Let us call for the immediate release of all detainees.
Cubans who did nothing other than exercise their right to free speech were charged with subversive activities.
In the resolution we argue for the immediate release of all detainees and an end to these dubious detentions.
Secondly, we state clearly that freedom of expression and assembly must be respected as the fundamental rights they are.
Fundamental rights are not negotiable and their infringement can never be justified.
We should also assure those who have found the courage to support the Varela Project that we support their efforts to re-empower the people of Cuba by constitutional means.
I too, therefore, consider that we in turn must send out a clear message, and we await the reaction of the Commission.
Mr President, I too of course am greatly concerned by the arrest of more than 70 dissidents, among them journalists and leaders of the illegal opposition parties, including the leaders of our two sister liberal parties in Cuba, which are also members of Liberal International, and the excessively long custodial sentences given to them in legal proceedings held away from the public gaze.
Mr President, I have until now sincerely supported all the UN resolutions demanding that the economic sanctions introduced by the United States against Cuba should be lifted.
I therefore deeply regret the fact that I must on this occasion most vigorously condemn Cuba, and I would call upon that country immediately to release all the detainees.
The EU would be sending out a very poor signal if we were to sign an agreement with a country that, at the same time, is infringing its people's fundamental human rights.
I see the arrests made in recent weeks as a thank you for our support for Cuba's entry into the ACP, a thank you for Commissioner Nielson's visit two or three weeks ago and for the opening of a Commission office in Cuba.
The dictator, Fidel Castro, has shown us his appreciation.
Mr President, Castro's Cuba has tried to present itself to the world as a model of anti-colonialism and social justice.
In reality hundreds of people died in Cuban prisons in the early years of the revolution, and many more have been imprisoned or had their lives ruined for daring to speak the truth.
Certainly the revolution has had achievements, but the economic, as well as the political, costs have been very high.
Fidel Castro has failed to understand that the world has changed, and few of us were prepared for the recent crackdown on 33 dissidents, the rushed secret trials and the outrageous call for the death penalty for a Christian Democratic leader.
That was followed by a démarche of the troika in Havana on 26 March 2003 in which the Commission participated.
The grave concern which was felt was highlighted in the European Union's statement on human rights in the world at the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva last week.
The statement called for the prompt release of those whom the Union considers to be prisoners of opinion.
The human rights situation is and will remain an important aspect of our relationship with Cuba.
The European Commission believes that a policy of dialogue is the most effective way to help bring about a positive evolution in this respect.
Instead, it gives priority to a constructive dialogue with the Cuban authorities and civil society.
As far as Cuba's request for accession to the Cotonou Agreement is concerned, that could provide a good framework to continue and deepen a meaningful dialogue with the Cuban authorities, in particular in the field of human rights.
The Commission is therefore preparing a communication on that subject, in which it will present a full assessment of the situation, including an assessment of the most propitious timing for Cuban accession to the Cotonou Agreement.
Indeed, the grave concern which the Commission feels was highlighted in the European Union statement on human rights in the world at the United Nations meeting in Geneva last week.
It goes without saying that a prompt release excludes the death penalty or any other kind of penalty.
Mr van den Bos referred to that possibility and asked whether its participation in the Cotonou Agreement would be possible should serious infringements of human rights in Cuba continue.
As far as the Commission is concerned, it would be difficult to square participation in the Cotonou Agreement with a continuation of the present situation in Cuba.
The vote will take place following this debate.
Mr President, last month 21 homosexual Egyptians were sentenced to three years' imprisonment and forced labour because of their sexual inclination.
They were part of a group of 52 homosexuals arrested in Cairo last year.
On 16 January of this year Wissam Toufic Abyad was arrested and later sentenced to 15 months' imprisonment for 'repeated licentious behaviour'.
Article 2 of this treaty requires respect for human rights and democratic principles.
We also recognise the importance of good relations between Egypt and the European Union for the stability and the development of this area.
I therefore very much regret that these relations are coming under pressure because of the repeated violations of human rights by the Egyptian authorities.
I am however delighted by the release of human rights activist Saad Eddin Ibrahim, but wish to add immediately that things cannot stop at this individual case.
The Egyptian authorities must keep working on greater respect for human rights in their country, the persecution of homosexuals because of their sexual inclination must come to an end and their individual freedoms must be protected.
I therefore make an urgent appeal to the Council and the Commission to develop programmes in the framework of the European initiative for democracy and human rights that are aimed at strengthening democracy in Egypt.
If these governments, including the Egyptian Government, do not take human rights seriously then we must take further action, if necessary suspending any agreements that we have with them.
A young man, Wissam Abyad, was entrapped on the Internet.
The cases of two more men out of the 52 who were arrested over a year ago were not reviewed.
Mr President, we Christian Democrats really wish to emphasise the importance of Egypt and of relations between Egypt and the EU for stability and development in the Mediterranean region.
Like previous speakers, we wish to emphasise respect for human rights, especially freedom of information, expression and association.
These are fundamental values included in the association agreement between the EU and Egypt.
The regulations governing churches are very complicated and long-winded.
Other examples are the murders of two Christians in 1998 in the El-Kosheh community - crimes which the local Christian population does not consider to have been solved equitably.
Relations with Egypt are fundamental to the Mediterranean region and the EU, but they must be based upon respect for human rights.
Egypt is a densely populated and important country in the Arab world and we want to conclude an association agreement with Egypt.
Yet Article 2 of that association agreement expressly includes a clause requiring the observance of human rights and democratic principles.
After all, there is an atmosphere of all or nothing prevailing here and that is not of course the right way to promote a good dialogue.
But here we clearly have a case of three kinds of human rights violations.
And thirdly I would like to underline that we have all been witness to the serious violations of human rights during the marches for peace in Iraq.
Mr President, the international agreement on civil and political rights is very clear regarding relationships between adults.
There is no smile on the face of Zaki 'Abd al-Malak.
There is no smile on the faces of the 21 Egyptians from the infamous 'Queen's Boat' discotheque trial, whose sentences have been increased on appeal to three years' imprisonment and forced labour.
There is no smile on the faces of those anti-war demonstrators who were arrested on 20 March in Cairo and reportedly tortured.
Egypt has contributed so much to our civilisation, we must urge it now to follow a civilised path on these issues.
You do, if you believe in the fundamental principles of democracy, have to defend their right to believe, their right to hold opinions, their right to choose their personal lifestyles.
The second trial of 50 men accused of homosexuality on 15 March and the sentencing of 21 of them to even harsher punishment demonstrates in the most dramatic fashion that this country has absolutely no respect for fundamental freedoms, for human rights or for privacy.
Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the European Commission for its work, which has led to an improvement in the situation of Professor Saad Eddin Ibrahim, whose release Parliament had called for.
Almost everything has already been said, but perhaps there is something we have overlooked: it is completely unacceptable for the democratic clause laid down in the various agreements with third countries not to be observed to the letter.
I would like to make it clear to the House and to the Commission that the increasing use of European taxpayers' money to serve the interests of dictatorships and finance violations of human rights, at the same time erasing any hope these countries might have of freedom and democracy, is totally unacceptable.
This is the acid test: we have to decide whether these debates are destined never to have any effect outside our archives or whether we want, once and for all, to take that leap forwards and make a clear, definitive political decision.
Mr President, I thank you once more for the fact that you have given me the floor on this important subject.
The Commission has followed the 'Queen Boat' affair since the arrest in May 2001 of 52 men under laws to control prostitution.
But the conduct and outcome of the second trial were unexpected since the 21 men previously sentenced were re-sentenced to the maximum sentence of 3 years.
The 21 men have appealed and an appeal verdict is provisionally expected on 4 June.
Homosexuality remains a sensitive issue for Egyptian society.
The European Parliament has expressed concern for the Egyptian Copts on several occasions and will know that the Commission continues to monitor the judicial aftermath of the events in el Khosheh in 1998 and in 1999/2000.
There are several provisions in the Association Agreement for fundamental breaches by either side of essential elements, one of which is respect for democratic principles and human rights as set out in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights (Article 2).
More importantly, the Association Agreement provides for constructive political dialogue on human rights and related issues.
In conclusion I should like to say to Parliament that Commissioner Patten told the European Parliament at the debate on the EU-Egypt Association Agreement that the Commission shares the European Parliament's concerns but also notes encouraging developments notably: new social legislation on the rights of women; the supervision of elections by the courts; ruling party proposals for ending the state security court system, and rulings by the courts on the constitutionality of contentious legislation.
The Commission continuously monitors Egypt's respect for human rights.
The Commission does not hesitate to make its views known to the Egyptian authorities through normal channels or public statements as appropriate.
To propose that military efforts be financed through Community funds or to apply the enhanced cooperation method within the military sphere would be wrong roads to go down.
It would weaken Europe's role in the UN if these nations' two votes were to be replaced by a single EU vote.
