Oral explanations of vote (MT) Naturally, it is difficult to be understood in this chaotic situation.
Competition law has helped restrict media concentration, but these problems still remain in a number of Member States where the market is dominated by a few large players.
An ever-increasing concentration of ownership among media companies that are competing in this sector has led to a situation where information that is valuable from the social and cultural points of view is difficult to find in the maze of easily accessible and standardised news for everyone.
It is difficult to predict what the worsening situation in this sector will lead to, not just for individual consumers, but for society as a whole.
The rapporteur was right to emphasise the role of the public sector broadcasters as guardians of diversity, with a mission to broadcast high-quality information.
In addition, the legal status of the new methods of disseminating information, such as Internet blogs, or other user-generated sites, should be clearly delineated so that the people creating these forms should be aware of their rights and responsibilities and any possible sanctions. (The President cut off the speaker) (NL) Mr President, I am happy to hear Parliament saying that all Member States must guarantee media pluralism and that public service broadcasters certainly have an important role there.
This report furnishes them with additional arguments and that is regrettable.
Whilst preserving the virtues of the original report, the parts that are unacceptable to us have been deleted from the text, and the recommendations that we felt it was important to emphasise have been inserted.
All consumers have the right to be informed, but they are also entitled to respect, which means that they must be allowed to make their own decisions.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (SV) This report on non-profit local community media in Europe deals with an area which is considered to need additional funding under EU support programmes.
This is yet another example of how various special interests in this Parliament seek to increase the number of EU support programmes and, in addition, increase the financial resources allocated to them, so that they can hand out appropriations right, left and centre.
In the interests of subsidiarity, we have voted against this report in its entirety.
Nevertheless, I am convinced that an essential precondition for community media as well as any other local media financed, even partially, from public funds, is to be independent not only from national but also from local power.
in writing. - The Resetarits report, which I supported, makes reference to the importance of media in strengthening cultural and linguistic diversity.
in writing. - Community media has always had an important role to play in our society.
I voted in favour of the report.
However, the rules that must regulate their activities must be set, from the start, in such a way that will prevent community and alternative media from betraying their mission, their social role.
in writing. - I cannot support this report.
The EPLP support the rapporteur but would have voted against Amendments 6 and 21.
I would personally like to thank Joseph Muscat for his work on this report and others and for his collegiate attitude in the European Parliament.
in writing. - Whilst in favour of cooperation between Member States in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (AFSJ), UK Conservatives are voting against this resolution as we remain consistently opposed to any calls for further harmonisation in the field of AFSJ.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the adoption by a very large majority of the resolution on the annual debate on progress made in 2007 in the area of freedom, security and justice.
Lastly, it proposes a number of vital measures to be adopted in the area of fundamental rights and citizenship, in regard to border protection and to immigration and asylum.
in writing. - (PT) While we agree with several points in this resolution on the so-called 'Area of Freedom, Security and Justice' - a euphemism for the real process of bringing justice and home affairs, which are sovereign powers of the Member States, into the Community system - it includes a set of objectives, priorities and proposals that we firmly reject.
In particular because it plays deaf to the rejection of the so-called 'Lisbon' Treaty - insisting on its imposition by the end of 2009 and calling for the process of bringing justice and home affairs into the Community system to be taken forward - bearing witness to the disrespect the EP majority shows towards the Irish people's sovereign and democratic decision.
in writing. - (DE) 1.
It is high time that was accepted. 2.
The motion calls for the full entry into use of the second-generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) and for the strengthening of Frontex.
in writing. - Generally speaking we support the idea of granting long-term residents the right to vote at European and local elections.
in writing. - (IT) I should like to stress the importance of safeguarding pluralism in the media (already cited in Article 11 of the Charter of Rights of the European Union) in order to underpin a democratic process through which the various citizens of Europe can be provided with information in a transparent manner.
I will therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, which seeks to entrust three European universities with the task of monitoring this pluralism using indicators of reliability and impartiality.
I also agree on the need to create supervisory systems to guarantee editorial and journalistic freedom in all Member States.
in writing. - (FR) I reaffirm that I attach great importance to freedom of expression and media pluralism.
The fact is that such conflicts of interest damage free competition and pluralism.
The issue of media concentration and diversity is important and should be discussed.
Questions concerning the media must always be handled in a responsible and considered manner.
in writing. - (PT) With the changes introduced into the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, which in these circumstances does not accept specific proposals for amendments, what has just been voted on was not the Mikko report, but rather an overarching proposal for an alternative resolution.
in writing. - I congratulate my colleague Marianne Mikko on her report.
in writing. - (SV) This report and the alternative resolutions tabled with it fall outside the legislative procedure and are nothing more than an expression of the desire of the federalist majority in the European Parliament to get the EU even more involved in the field of culture and media policy.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of Marianne Mikko's report on concentration and pluralism in the media in the EU.
Access to free and diverse media in all Member States is vitally important these days.
So that this development process can continue as fruitfully as possible, stable funding must be provided for public broadcasting corporations, enabling them to promote public interests and social values, to preserve pluralism in the media and to give people access to high-quality content.
There is therefore a need to merge competition and media legislation in order to guarantee access, competition and quality.
in writing. - (RO) As we all agree, pluralism should be a vital element of the mass media.
Cultural diversity, as well as the ever-increasing need for integration of the migrant population and of minorities, along with the importance of providing quality information to the active population, are the priority reasons for creating a Media Freedom Charter.
I broadly voted in support of Marianne Mikko's recommendations.
in writing. - (DE) Concentration in the media is a widespread evil and must be combated.
As for freedom of expression on the Internet, the EU should place great emphasis on public dialogue to ensure both freedom of expression and the protection of personal data.
The amendment of the Rules of Procedure, as adopted by us on 8 July 2008, resulted in new rules on own-initiative reports.
I did not intend to vote against the report but we did not get the chance to vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by our political group, the PPE-DE Group.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, pluralism in the media means diversity in the dissemination of information and the characteristic nature of broadcasters.
An ever-increasing concentration of ownership among media companies that are competing in this sector has led to a situation where information that is valuable from the social and cultural points of view is difficult to find in the maze of easily accessible and standardised news for everyone.
The rapporteur was right to emphasise the role of public sector broadcasters as the guardians of diversity, with a mission to broadcast high quality information.
The text of the report, as well as the intentions of the rapporteur, seem to be clear and transparent.
in writing. - (PL) In the resolution on concentration and pluralism in the media in the European Union that has been adopted, Members of the European Parliament, including myself, were right to speak in favour of guaranteeing freer access to diverse mass media as well as of freedom of expression.
Point 25 of the report in its previous version, if it were interpreted badly, constituted a threat to the freedom of expression of authors using this ever more popular medium.
in writing. - (PL) During today's vote, I supported the resolution on concentration and pluralism in the media in the European Union.
We should defend media pluralism as an important aspect of democracy and freedom, in order to guarantee access to free and diverse mass media to all the inhabitants of the European Union.
in writing. - (RO) Continued increases in the price of oil is leading to major concerns as regards the impact of this phenomenon on economic growth within the EU, and in particular as regards its negative effect on consumer purchasing power and the quality of life.
In my capacity as rapporteur on regional cooperation in the Black Sea area, I have constantly stressed the importance and urgency of these actions.
in writing. - (SV) We voted against Amendment 1 on the taxation of windfall profits, because we think that the text proposed is unclear and we question both how it is to be implemented and, more especially, what the ultimate purpose of the proposal is.
in writing. - (PT) I voted for this resolution because, in stressing the discrepancy between the value of crude oil on the international markets and the final price of fuel, it manages to address this sensitive issue without taking the emotive approach adopted by some governments, such as the Portuguese Government, for example.
in writing. - I am happy to support the practical ideas contained in most of this resolution on rising energy prices.
in writing. - I voted for the joint motion for a resolution on 'Getting a grip on energy prices'.
However, I voted against Amendment 1 calling for a windfall tax at European level.
in writing. - I voted against the resolution on energy prices.
I reject the idea that increased nuclear energy can have a positive impact on the environment and believe that political attention should be focused on non-nuclear renewable energy sources.
in writing. - (SV) There is much that the EU can do to reduce the problem of obesity and on which we should focus attention in Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) The fight against the serious public health problem of overweight- and obesity-related disease must be a priority from the early stages of life.
Nutritional information on food is important, particularly the difference between natural trans-fatty acids present in meat and dairy products and those produced during industrial processing (artificial).
European indicators such as waist size are useful for monitoring the risk factors people are exposed to in relation to various obesity-related diseases.
in writing. - (PT) Overweight and diet-related diseases are a serious public health problem, which means that the fight against obesity must be set as a priority from the early stages of life.
The Foglietta report is highly relevant in calling on Member States, local entities and school authorities to monitor and improve the quality and nutritional standards of school meals.
in writing. - I cannot support this report or Amendment 6 as I feel that it is inappropriate to include tax- or VAT-based issues in a health-based report such as this.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Foglietta report and welcome the White Paper on nutrition, overweight and obesity-related health issues.
in writing. - I welcome Alessandro Foglietta's report on the White Paper on nutrition, overweight and obesity-related health issues.
My vote reflects these views.
The most obese people in Europe are to be found in Greece, where 3 in 4 are overweight and there has been a 956% increase in fast food.
This will be funded with European capital to a total of EUR 90 million annually and will be supplemented with national funding.
in writing. - The need for clear labelling on food will help in our fight against obesity.
Until such time as there is agreement that we can harmonise our national health services to the highest standards, then MS must be free to plan and fund and manage services to deliver high quality public health services within their borders.
in writing. - (SV) This resolution states views on appropriate policy measures covering such matters as employment protection, the fight against poverty, labour market measures, the integration of elderly people into the job market, professional mobility and differences in remuneration.
We have therefore voted against this resolution in the final vote.
in writing. - (NL) We are still glad that the European Parliament excluded heath care services from the general directive on services.
There must be solidarity, but there must also be the possibility of different treatment for patients who have contributed in their own country through the social security and tax system and foreign patients who have not.
