Inland waterway transport (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Wortmann-Kool, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the promotion of inland waterway transport: NAIADES, an integrated European Action Programme for inland waterway transport.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, I should like to convey my heartfelt thanks to the Vice-President of the Commission for 'NAIADES', the Action Programme for inland waterway transport.
This House is of the opinion that the Commission and Council should also show commitment and should match the same amount, so that EUR 120 million would become available.
Even more importantly, would you be prepared to make these EUR 40 million available over the next few years?
The Resolution shows that there is broad agreement between Parliament, the Council and the Commission on the promotion of inland waterway transport.
Despite the advantages it offers, inland waterway transport is under-used: it represents scarcely 6% of the total overland goods transport in the Union, even though, in a few Member States, its modal share stands at 40%.
I am grateful to Parliament for the support that it has given me via this report by Mrs Wortmann-Kool.
The Commission is going to start work on State aid for this sector.
Mrs Wortmann-Kool, you mentioned the appointment of a TEN coordinator.
Mr Costa, for his part, has also called for the appointment of a coordinator for both inland waterway transport and maritime transport.
I am grateful to Parliament and to you, Mrs Wortmann-Kool, for sending out, with this report, a strong signal in favour of the promotion of inland navigation, which Europe needs now more than ever.
Furthermore, I am also delighted by the current efforts of my city, Zaragoza, which will host Expo 2008 and which, within that context, wishes - and this has been proposed within the context of the objective of promoting water and sustainable development - to restore the navigability of the River Ebro.
This consensus conceals different opinions, as was evident in this House during the debate in February 2003 on the subject of the White Paper on transport 2010.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, first of all, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her extremely comprehensive report and thank her for the good cooperation.
Finally, I hope that the Member States will approach this Action Programme with the same positive attitude and commitment as the Members of this House have done in the recent weeks. (PL) Mr President, I should like to draw particular attention to the title of Mrs Wortmann-Kool's report.
The Oder Programme was adopted a few years ago in Poland, and was initially called the Oder 2006 Programme, but was later extended to last until 2015.
I urge the European Commission not to end the studies, but to continue working on a European network of inland waterways.
Studies in this field should be continued, and I wish the venture every success. (DE) Mr President, as is well known, Austria is a land of mountains, but it is also - and Austria's national day being tomorrow, perhaps I might be permitted this allusion - described in its own national anthem as a land on a river, the river in question being the Danube.
Further to the Commission's initiative for the production of information source on financial issues, in the shape, for example, of a funding handbook, what is also needed is a European development plan containing an up-to-date inventory and more detailed information on European waterways, which must draw on existing expert studies and reports, as well as on the experiences gained by the coordinators.
Mr President, I should like to begin by echoing what was said in this excellent debate and by thanking all of the speakers.
The Commission will draft a report on the state of play and on the results of the assessments in 2007.
The idea is to bring this level of sulphur down to the level of the diesel fuel used in road transport.
I must say that we are aware, Mr Rack, of the importance of these waterways and of the major role that they can play in the future.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
