The Council and the Commission reacted promptly, as was made clear in the Council's conclusions of 18 June, which stated that we will not abandon the ordinary people of Gaza.
We support the emergency Government of Prime Minister Salam Fayad.
Above all, Israel must contribute to the credible peace process which Palestinian leaders such as President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayad are working to develop.
The appointment of Tony Blair as the new envoy of the Quartet leaves no doubt that the international community continues to be actively involved with this issue.
Israel has finally resumed the transfer of tax and customs revenue, the European Union has decided to normalise its relations with the Palestinian Authority and there is now a new Palestinian Government headed by Prime Minister Salam Fayyad.
The creation of a viable Palestinian State is, at least, at risk.
I hope that the upcoming bilateral meeting between President Abbas and Prime Minister Olmert, which, it is to be hoped, will take place on 16 July, will help to frame a credible political perspective for the Palestinian people and that it will pave the way for their joint meeting with the Quartet later on.
I welcome the appointment of Tony Blair as Quartet envoy, which will certainly further dynamise our role in the Middle East peace process.
I will, of course, provide him with every possible assistance, as we did for Jim Wolfensohn, including the staff for his team in Jerusalem.
In order to fund TIM operations in the third quarter, we have sent a request to the budgetary authority for a transfer of EUR 80 million.
The Commission has resumed its long-standing efforts to build the institutions of the future Palestinian State.
Finally, a few words on Gaza.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, tomorrow Parliament is set to adopt a new resolution, which has achieved consensus on the basis of the usual procedures, on the Middle East situation.
In addition, however, Mr President, there are two points that I should like to raise in this speech.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, many crocodile tears are being wept over the situation in the Middle East.
We also need to incorporate the Arab Peace Initiative if we are to achieve genuine peace between Israel and her Arab neighbours.
If we require one side to renounce violence, then we should demand the same from the other side, which has not been the case in recent months.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the previous interventions have already clearly demonstrated that our attitudes have changed considerably towards the situation in the Middle East in general, and the Israel-Palestine issue in particular.
Níor cheart cead a thabhairt d'údaráis Iosrael cosc a chur ar an mbia ag teorainn Gaza agus Iosrael.
The fact that Hamas now controls Gaza and Fatah controls the West Bank does not help the Palestinian cause one iota.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, you have appealed, Mr Antunes, together with nine of your colleagues, for a new approach in Palestine.
The Union must commit itself to an international peace conference involving all the parties.
The movement of persons and goods, between Gaza and the West Bank, and between Gaza and Israel, must be re-established.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really hope that Tony Blair is in a phase of redemption after his sins concerning the Iraq war and that he can help to bring peace and justice to the Palestinians and peace to the Israelis.
I wonder whether the European Union can genuinely feel satisfied that it has played an adequate role in this period.
Gaza may be controlled by Hamas, but Hamas is not its own master: there is a veto in Tehran.
For its part Israel has acted with restraint: it has recognised the government of Salam Fayyad, it has released hundreds of Palestinian prisoners, it is transferring some USD 400 million in tax receipts paid by Palestinians, and it is actively engaged in talks with the leadership of the PA.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Mr President, thank you for your understanding.
Obviously, we hope that his work will benefit the peace process in the Middle East and we wish him well in his mission.
If you look at the letter, it does not say Luis Amado, Foreign Minister to the President of the Council of the Union, it says Luis Amado, Portuguese Foreign Minister, and it was exclusively on that basis that the letter was signed.
In spirit at least, the letter draws attention to the urgency, the complexity, the need for the EU as a whole to play a central role in resolving this conflict, in resolving a conflict that began 40 years ago, and thus to respond to the call made by many Members in this Chamber for the EU to endeavour as far as possible to play a decisive role in the matter.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday 12 July 2007.
