Therefore, if we really want to take a lead on energy efficiency, we should close down the Strasbourg Parliament. (PL) Mr President, I voted in favour of Community participation in a research and development programme aimed at enhancing the quality of life of older people through the use of new information and communication technologies.
The growing number of older people, plus the need for a wider range of services and products, increases demand in this area. (PL) Mr President, I voted against, since the report gives rise to a number of doubts.
I also oppose the provisions on the increase of excise duty rates on fuel throughout the European Union.
High oil prices on national markets and the harmonisation of excise duties in all 27 EU countries will put a brake on economic growth in countries with a low GNP.
An increase in fuel prices means an increase in the price of goods and services.
I accordingly voted for the amendments tabled to allow the new Member States, including Poland, to retain different excise duty rates. (PL) Mr President, I voted against, because the significant increase in excise duty on gas oil will give rise to an increase in customs duty on goods and services in countries which are supposed to charge a rate of excise duty that is lower than the proposed Community minimum but is in any case high with regard to conditions in those countries.
Given that average income in the Member States that joined the European Union in 2004 and 2007 is relatively low, the proposed increase in excise duty is too great.
Firstly, I believe in tax competition.
I am running a campaign with the Northampton Chronicle and Echo for the people who live in that vicinity in my region, where we are being charged more for our fuel than all the other major towns around.
We talk about creating the world's largest single market here, and we talk about making the EU the most competitive economy in the world, and we talk about the world competition, yet what do we do when it comes to tax competition?
It is a competence of Member States, and we should leave it as such, because the best way to ensure a competitive economy is to make sure that we have tax competition, not harmonisation. (PL) Mr President, I voted against.
The Caritas Europa report shows that in 14 European countries - including Poland, Austria, Germany and Britain - single parents, especially women, are particularly affected by poverty.
To prove this point today we have a report whose findings are more coherent with somebody who watched too much Prisoner: Cell Block H as a child than on the actual facts of the situation of women in prisons - and whether that should be a competence of this place anyway.
For example, in recital Q, it says: 'whereas the increased number of women in prison is partly due to the worsening economic conditions of women'.
In Poland, 5 000 of the 30 000 prison officers are women.
Prison officers' remuneration does not exceed EUR 500 a month.
I really do think that this resolution shows how trying to have a harmonised EU foreign and security policy in the future will cause us many problems, both in this place and within our Member State capitals. (DE) Mr President, like the majority of my Group I voted against this report, not because of the subject-matter but because this important issue keeps being exploited for ideological battles about the concepts of sexual and reproductive health and rights.
This means seeking to make use of the privileged relationship of the eastern European countries that joined the EU in 2004 as an EU intervention instrument (taking into account the interests of the major powers and their large economic and financial groups, particularly in the energy sector) in the countries of the Community of Independent States, the Western Balkans and the Caucasus.
in writing. - (PT) The mere fact that we are discussing the role of the new Member States in European Union cooperation and development policies, particularly with the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries, is clear evidence of the success of the process of enlargement and of the integration of the countries that have joined in recent years.
in writing. - (PL) I am voting in favour of Mrs Budreikaitė's report on the challenge of EU development cooperation policy for the new Member States.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Mrs Gill's report on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the participation by the Community in a research and development programme.
in writing. - (PT) We voted in favour of this report, which deals with the European Commission proposal on the EU's involvement in the research and development programme that various EU Member States have decided to set up in the field of the new Information Technologies (ICT) to help people as they get older and to enable them to act effectively.
The Union's financial largesse, to the tune of EUR 150 million over a number of years minus the operating costs of the aforesaid new body, does not seem like a clinching argument.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report proposing European Union participation in the Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) research and development programme that has been undertaken jointly by a number of Member States and third countries.
European Union participation in the programme is envisaged in the context of the European Commission's seventh Framework Research and Development Programme.
The European Union will provide EUR 150 million to cofinance projects that will have a leverage effect worth at least EUR 600 million between 2008 and 2013.
The countries taking part in the AAL programme are also to help finance it by making an equivalent or greater contribution, which means that each country will invest at least 20% of its national research budget in this field.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of Mrs Gill's report 'Enhancing the quality of life of older people', which aims to promote the use of modern information and communication technology as a means of support for the elderly.
The technologies in question can significantly help such people in various situations, including the prolongation of professional and social activity and improvement of the quality of life.
in writing. - (DE) I am in favour of cofinancing by the European Union of the 'Ambient Assisted Living' programme, since it would benefit not just older people but also other population groups, such as those with disabilities.
In regard to the general cost reduction in the health sector as a result of the use of these new technologies, I would also draw your attention to the research into 'mobile health monitoring' systems, the use of which would reduce annual health costs by EUR 1500 million in Germany alone.
in writing. - I back Nina Gill's report 'Enhancing the quality of life of older people'.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to support the report in its entirety since, in our view, the EU must prioritise action on unhealthy tax competition in the fuel sector, in particular with a view to enabling the EU to achieve its climate objectives.
in writing. - (PT) This proposal for a directive seeks to narrow the price differences on fuel among the various Member States that lead to distortions in terms of competition and the environment in road transport activity.
The European Parliament's proposal is more positive because it eliminates the transitional periods under Article 18, a very important aspect in the current situation, in the hope that it will make it possible to reduce the difference between Portugal and Spain in 2010, since the latter will have to increase its fuel tax from EUR 302 to EUR 330 in the case of gas oil.
The approximation will continue in 2012 and 2015.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against the Schmidt report because what the European Parliament has engaged in here, instead of supporting the Commission initiative, is a sort of conjuring trick playing off the old against the new Member States.
In its 28 September 2006 resolution on improving the economic situation in the fishing industry, the European Parliament, considering that increased fuel prices have a particularly negative effect on the fishing industry - significantly aggravating the existing socioeconomic crisis and drastically reducing fishermen's incomes - and stressing that there is a serious risk of the disappearance of thousands of fisheries enterprises and the loss of thousands of jobs, adopted a range of proposals to support the sector so that it can cope with increased fuel prices.
in writing. - The goal of Olle Schmidt's report 'Taxation of unleaded petrol, gas and oil' is to attend to the disparities in excise duty on fuel across the Union.
I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (FR) The purpose of the Commission proposal was to introduce measures for reducing CO2 emissions in accordance with the stated aims of the energy and climate change package.
However, neither the Commission proposal nor the report adopted today addresses the urgent need to develop a fuel capable of making a real difference in the fight against CO2 emissions.
in writing. - (IT) The Gomes report takes stock of the dramatic and difficult situation in which Iraq finds itself.
Parliament therefore urges the Council to encourage investment by European enterprises in Iraqi territory, and to conduct the negotiations on the trading agreement between the EU and Iraq so that the Iraqi market can be brought more into line with European regulations.
in writing. - (PT) The resolution adopted achieves the 'astonishing' feat of not making a single reference to the brutal and illegal aggression and occupation of Iraq by the USA and its allies.
In essence, the resolution endorses the status quo, presenting it as a fait accompli and seeking to promote greater EU participation in the intervention in Iraq, seeing this country as another 'state supervised' by the USA/NATO/EU, like Afghanistan and Kosovo.
in writing. - I voted for this report, despite the view expressed in one of the recitals that sees all problems in Iraq as being down to the previous regime.
in writing. - (FR) The representatives of the Movement for France in the European Parliament have taken a consistent stand since the beginning of the US intervention in Iraq.
It is a calamity for Iraq, today and in the future.
in writing. - (PT) The fact that Parliament has decided to discuss the future of the European Union's role in Iraq, rather than insisting on a pointless debate on past issues, is positive.
What that improvement reveals in particular is that there is a viable way forward in the objective of building a democratic and secure state.
Our objective can be achieved.
In the European Union's specific case, this involves investing heavily in the economic reconstruction of Iraq and in building democracy in the country.
in writing. - (DE) Of course I know that we voted in plenary on the draft report by my colleague Ana Gomes on the role of the European Union and not on her explanatory statement to the report.
in writing. - (NL) I find it regrettable that the European Parliament has so far produced no analysis at all of the war in Iraq.
Mrs Gomes gives us an assessment of the situation in Iraq.
It is vital that we support the case of Monsignor Paulos Faraj Rahho, the Chaldean Catholic Archbishop born and resident in Mosul, who was kidnapped on Friday 29 February 2008.
It is vital that we encourage the national authorities to do all in their power to secure the immediate and unconditional release of Monsignor Paulos Faraj Rahho.
Hence, if a common code of conduct for arms exports is drawn up, it is likely that certain Member States with a more restrictive policy may be forced to compromise.
in writing. - (PT) An effective EU code of conduct on arms exports undoubtedly becomes increasingly important in the context of its rapid militarisation, which is mirrored in the draft Treaty currently being ratified in each Member State.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats voted for the report since it is important that prison conditions be improved in certain institutions in Europe and that prisoners' human and fundamental rights be respected.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues believe that ways should always be looked at to improve the situation of women in prison.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou's report on the particular situation of women in prison and the impact of the imprisonment of parents on social and family life, since there is evidence that European prisons are geared largely towards male prisoners and overlook women's specific needs.
in writing. - (PT) Although women represent around 4.5 to 5% of the prison population in the European Union, prisons continue to be geared basically towards male prisoners and tend to overlook the specific problem of the small but growing percentage of women prisoners.
in writing. - (SV) Junilistan sympathises with many of the report's views concerning respect for human rights, better conditions in prisons, respect for equality between women and men and the importance of the resettlement of offenders in society.
Clearly it is also immensely important that the greatest possible consideration be given to the needs of the child in these situations.
These things should be subject to the direction of the Member States and their voters and be determined by the public debate in society.
in writing. - I agree with the findings outlined in Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou's report on the situation of women in prison and the impact of the imprisonment of parents on social and family life.
There are specific issues for women prisoners that demand specific attention, notably in the matter of access to healthcare.
Furthermore, women are still central to the family unit.
We note the reply given by the Council Presidency in Parliament on 4 December 2003 that the term reproductive health does not include the promotion of abortion and, inter alia, that abortion should never be presented as a method of family planning, contrary to what the WHO states on fertility regulation.
in writing. - (SV) This own-initiative report seeks to integrate the equality perspective into the EU's development cooperation.
The right of women to sexual and reproductive health is an important element in promoting development.
Work on these questions and development cooperation, however, should in principle be pursued at global level through the UN, not the EU.
in writing. - Feleknas Uca's report 'Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment in Development Cooperation' welcomes the Commission's strategy on the issue.
I reiterate this approval of a strategy that seeks to mainstream gender equality in development cooperation.
I have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (FR) While gender equality has been an integral part of the European Union's development cooperation programmes for many years now, actual progress is still too slow.
The European Commission therefore needs to set itself targets, in terms of figures and deadlines, so that development can become the main driver of improved living conditions for women.
in writing. - Mr President, I am all in favour of gender equality and empowering women and I would have liked to support this positive report.
in writing. - (PL) The Uca report on gender equality in development policy is an expression of European moral imperialism vis-à-vis the developing countries.
in writing. - (FR) Equality between men and women is a priority in developing countries.
Nonetheless, I voted against the report because the substance of certain paragraphs in the final version, which refer to sexual and reproductive health in imprecise terms, remains ambiguous.
Since Gertrude Mongella's visit on 6 March 2008, marking International Women's Day, I would also say that we have a lot to learn from African wisdom with regard to gender equality: it is something that is lived there and is passed on in oral traditions among women and men who are blessed with good spiritual and mental health.
