In opening this debate, I am pleased to be able to give the floor to President Haarder, formerly one of our fellow Members and Vice-President of the European Parliament, who will now speak on behalf of the Council as President-in-Office of the Council.
As you know, the decision to hold the summit was taken by the UN General Assembly in autumn 2000, the same year in which the Millennium Summit adopted the eight Millennium Goals for reducing poverty by 2015.
The mandate from the General Assembly for Johannesburg included identifying new challenges and opportunities for sustainable development, as well as policies and means of supporting developing countries and countries with transitional economies in their efforts.
In parallel with the lead-up to Johannesburg, two other international conferences were held at ministerial level: the WTO's ministerial conference in Doha in November 2001, which adopted the agenda for the negotiating round on trade and development, and the Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey in March, at which an historic agreement was entered into on funding and good governance.
At the same time, for the first time in many years, new and substantial promises of aid were given by the rich countries.
From 2006 onwards these assurances will increase the total aid volume by around 25% annually.
Within the EU, we greatly desired to establish development targets in a number of areas that were not covered by the Millennium Goals or by previous agreements.
We wanted to insist on the results achieved previously with respect to human rights, workers' rights, equality and good governance, and we wanted to ensure effective follow-up.
We were able to define the combating of poverty as crucial for sustainable development in a context that encompasses not only increasing prosperity but also access to clean drinking water, sanitation, energy, better health and equality.
What is worthy of note, however, is that we succeeded in gaining substantial acknowledgement of the advantages of sustainable energy at an international summit for the first time.
The agreements reached at Monterrey on financing for development and the significance of good governance in attracting investment and funding were affirmed.
The EU submitted a declaration on this, since the issue of the role of women was not given as strong a position as we would have liked.
Importance was attached to the national responsibility for good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The private sector will be more involved.
There was a clear message from business that in their investments and production they accept their responsibility for local communities and the environment.
The World Bank and the World Trade Organisation should also be involved.
In this context we have a particular duty to follow up our own initiatives in respect of water and energy.
Finally, I would like to mention that yesterday the ASEM Summit was held between 25 European and Asian Heads of State and Government.
And both I and Commissioner Pascal Lamy are very pleased that we got as far as we did with our Asian colleagues last week and yesterday.
I will not over-simplify and try to sum up the summit in one word as either a success or a failure, but overall the Commission believes that we can be satisfied with the results of Johannesburg.
We succeeded in adding new momentum to the cause of sustainable development and the outcomes of the summit take us in the right direction.
Against a difficult political backdrop it fell largely to the European Union to champion the cause of sustainable development in Johannesburg.
In preparing for the summit, the Commission issued two specific communications, one in February 2001 entitled 'Ten years after Rio: preparing for the World Summit on Sustainable Development in 2002' and a second communication in February 2002 entitled: 'Towards a global partnership for sustainable development'.
Building upon these communications the Council adopted several sets of conclusions in 2001 and 2002 in which the European Union's negotiating platform for the World Summit on Sustainable Development was defined.
It is worth noting specifically the Development Council conclusions of 30 May 2002, which list in detail the EU's priorities.
The European Parliament also issued its opinion in a resolution adopted on 16 May 2002.
First, halving by 2015 the proportion of people lacking access to basic sanitation - this currently stands at three billion people, half of the total world population.
This new target complements the Millennium Development Goal on access to clean water.
Second, a commitment to minimise harmful effects on human health and the environment from the production and use of all chemicals by 2020.
Fourth, a commitment to begin implementation of national strategies on sustainable development by 2005.
Fifth, a commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010, as earlier agreed by the parties to the Biodiversity Convention.
The endorsement by all Heads of State and Government is a major achievement.
The agreement to establish a ten-year framework for programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with industrialised countries taking the lead in this global effort, is another important result.
On globalisation, as has been said, the summit agreed on concrete actions to enhance the role of trade for sustainable development, for example by encouraging trade in environmentally friendly and organic products from developing countries and by strengthening international action for corporate responsibility.
In line with its general position in favour of a focused and result-oriented implementation plan, the European Union also supported, among other things, the establishment of a quantitative, time-bound target to increase the proportion of renewable energy within the overall energy mix.
This includes countries and regions willing to set themselves targets and timeframes for the increase of renewables in the energy mix.
This coalition maintains pressure on the unwilling, and should give a boost to the development of renewable energy throughout the world.
The European Commission spoke with one strong voice in Johannesburg.
Coordination was further enhanced by the presence in Johannesburg of the President of the Commission.
As Commissioner Wallström said, we are in a different political climate than in 1992.
It is almost as if NGOs and the Group of 77 had given up expecting constructive multilateralism from the United States; as if the US is not part of the equation for sustainable development.
But Johannesburg did result in consensus, and that in itself is positive.
I have noted point 6 in the motion for a resolution, and I would like to point out that I think this is a correct reading of this problem.
We succeeded in avoiding this derailing of the multilateral agenda, but of course we had to use up negotiation capital defending what everybody had in fact internationally agreed less than a year ago.
Second, on Friday, the EU and the ACP countries launch negotiations on Regional Economic Partnership Agreements under the Cotonou Agreement.
Third, last week, the Commission adopted a communication on trade and development, addressed to Council and to this Parliament.
The relevant Doha provisions are quoted throughout the text.
The Johannesburg text also calls for the successful completion of the Doha Agenda, placing the needs of developing countries at the heart of negotiations, but without interfering with its negotiations on subsidies and tariffs.
On subsidies, the Johannesburg text directly quotes the Council's conclusions.
The text also reaffirms the text on access to medicines and TRIPs.
In short, the Johannesburg text on trade and finance is in line with the mandate given by the Development Council on 30 May.
Sustainable development remains the core objective of the Johannesburg political declaration, and this gives us a coherent framework for implementing the outcome of all major UN conferences.
The fight against poverty was given high priority throughout the chapters of the Plan of Implementation.
It is a step forward that the summit explicitly prioritised fighting poverty in pursuing targets such as access to energy, water and sanitation, and equitable sharing of the benefits of biodiversity.
If you want concrete answers as to where the EU is going, you should look at 2003 fiscal budgets for each of the EU Member States.
Members followed the summit actively and interacted with the Commission in briefings, summit events, side-events and so on, all in the interests of representing Europe.
I pointed out to Members of Parliament raising this issue in Johannesburg during the summit, as I had to, that we had not come there with new rules and that it was not in our power in Johannesburg to change these arrangements.
Any such changes require a tripartite decision involving the Commission, Council and European Parliament.
These partnerships will hopefully bring additional resources and expertise, and mobilise action at all levels.
The European Commission will focus on securing strong EU implementation of the two EU-wide partnerships on water and energy launched in Johannesburg.
During the summit, the EU signed with its African partners a strategic EU-Africa partnership on water and sanitation.
More generally, it is clear that the effective implementation of the outcome of Johannesburg means translating intentions into action through development cooperation undertaken regionally and nationally as well as locally.
The European Council has already agreed to review, at its Spring meeting in 2003, the EU strategy for sustainable development, with a focus on putting into practice the commitments undertaken in Johannesburg.
To prepare this review, the Commission intends to submit proposals building on the communication 'Towards a Global Partnership for Sustainable Development' issued earlier this year.
Internally, one of the main issues to be addressed in the synthesis report for next Spring's European Council should be how to move towards more sustainable consumption and production patterns in the EU.
I would conclude by saying that the European Union can be satisfied with the role it played in Johannesburg; and by stressing 'European Union'.
The cooperation between Commission and Council was also a very positive experience.
NGOs and the press focus on these shortcomings.
Many have compared our wish list to some sort of Christmas tree with an overabundance of decorations.
If our wish list is considered to be an over-decorated Christmas tree, then one could well say that the result from Johannesburg is more like a Christmas tree with no needles - but nevertheless a Christmas tree.
The problems that might exist between Parliament and the Commission as to who should say what at the international meetings can be taken up in a forum other than this Chamber, and we should now concentrate on the problem that we actually need to do something about.
We must ensure that the commitments and promises that the EU made in Johannesburg now find expression in our actual policies and that they are visible in our budget.
I should like both the Council and the Commission to return to Parliament in February to report on what has been done up to then and what will happen in future so that the commitments from Johannesburg can be implemented.
I would also like to say a few words about the other commitments that the EU has made, for example at Kyoto, and about how things are looking with our own climate programme, which the Commission approved about a year ago, a two-year programme that comprises one half of the strategy to combat climate change within Europe.
With regard to our targets and the 8% reduction we want to achieve, the principle must still be that climate policy should form the basis of energy policy.
This should govern the formulation of our energy policy in future.
We must ensure that this is expressed in our research programmes and in the directives that the Commission has promised, such as the directive on public procurement with regard to energy.
Commissioner Nielson, I was astonished by the self-satisfaction you radiated during your contribution on the outcome of Johannesburg.
I believe it to be the common responsibility of us all not to lose sight of our industrial policy objectives and our economy's competitiveness, no matter how necessary it is that we support to the utmost a sensible European climate change programme.
We set out, then, with considerable ambition and with a great spirit of unity and of solidarity between all the political groups.
Secondly, a qualitative leap was also taken in terms of concepts: sustainable development made a very close link between the environment and poverty.
And I think that another qualitative leap was the desire to eradicate poverty and, at the same time, to put a brake on environmental degradation.
Both the public and private sectors are committed to this objective of sustainable development.
I would, however, add a point not mentioned either by the Danish Presidency, or by the Commission, and which I believe is negative: it is the fact that no boost was given to institutional reform in the field of the environment.
This summit could have been used to ensure the 'greening' of the existing institutions, such as the World Bank and the World Trade Organisation, but also to launch new institutions that place globalisation at the service of sustainable development.
This issue was not mentioned or discussed, and played no part in the summit, and this was deplorable.
Many people have placed Kyoto on the positive side of the balance-sheet of this summit.
And ten years after the Rio Summit, Kyoto has still not begun to exist in practice.
This time, things were reversed: our relationship with the Danish Presidency was excellent, transparent, highly cooperative and, unfortunately, this time, with the Commission, we did not see the same level of cooperation that we have grown accustomed to at the conferences on climate change with Commissioner Wallström.
I believe that this has to be said with the utmost clarity, especially in the light of how the European Union, the driving force behind this summit, tried to get the right questions onto the agenda and also to get to grips with the right targets for implementing sustainable development.
That is why the climate change programme that we are discussing today is an important building block towards combining environmental policy channels with economic performance and social justice.
It could have been worse.
I want to make it clear, though, that we are particularly positive about the role that the European Union played.
In our view, these are crucial elements to address before we can embark on new partnerships with developing countries.
In our view, the new partnership for energy should have been launched in a better way and should have been discussed beforehand in Parliament.
Despite the fact that, as has been mentioned, some new objectives were defined, nothing relevant or practical was put forward apart from the insipid Monterrey commitments in the field of financial resources, either in terms of public development aid or of debt cancellation.
We cannot, therefore, expect great results of it.
At the same time, this fund demonstrates the clear failure by the developed countries to provide the public aid to which they committed themselves some decades ago.
Much of what happened in Johannesburg can be understood in the light of these two statements placing the entire emphasis on trade.
This change in the political climate is taking place not only in the US, but also in the EU because we have a much more trade-dominated political agenda than we did in 1992.
The Verts/ALE Group today considers that we will no longer be credible in the eyes of the G77 countries if we do not change this and add four cornerstones to our international policy.
Thirdly, we must progress in Europe in the area of production and consumption patterns.
Fourthly, we must stop trade dominance and restore a better balance between multilateral environmental agreements and trade, and also introduce binding agreements for big business with regard to their corporate and social responsibility.
There may have been very good reasons why the Commissioner for the Environment was only able to attend for some 48 hours, but on top of this we had a Commissioner who had determined a substantial part of the negotiations, without any democratic scrutiny, in secret negotiations months ahead of the whole summit.
Consequently it was also difficult to achieve improvements in the areas of the environment and human rights.
Johannesburg was another disappointment in terms of what had been expected of it.
For the first time, the European Union set out a practicable way ahead and a definite strategy in the form of the development of renewable energy sources.
We should have finished this part at 10 a.m., which would have given us 45 minutes of free debate between the Members present in the Chamber.
I would like to thank the two Commissioners for their amenability.
In actual fact, I too found the idea that they should make three contributions to the debate a little odd.
This makes the European Climate Change Programme important, but the actual measures so far proposed by the Commission are insufficiently ambitious.
Firstly, the reduction of the prevalence of HIV-AIDS - a disease that has reduced life expectancy in sub-Saharan Africa from 62 to 47 years - is an absolutely essential target.
The problem is that investment in their development is not sufficient and such treatments are still several years away.
There is a real problem in obtaining money for clinical trials.
The second point is to draw the attention of colleagues to Parliament's own work on the Sixth Framework Programme.
Through this programme the European Union has given high priority to combating poverty-linked infectious diseases, such as AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
Finally, I should like to mention access to medicines.
There is also a shortage of generic medicines, the cheaper medicines and other forms of treatment, which are just as important in countries where poverty is so rife and where water standards are so poor.
And aid to development is constantly decreasing instead of increasing.
Mr President, I listened carefully to the two Commissioners emphasise the positive role played by the European Union during the negotiations at the Johannesburg Summit.
We absolutely must make an effort in this area to withdraw export subsidies and to gain this credibility in countries which are affected by these subsidies.
If we do not do this, how can we ensure that, at summits of this type, these people listen to us slightly more earnestly than they do at the moment?
Mr President, in my opinion, the wording of items 6 and 7 on the CAP and the agricultural subsidies demonstrates three major political mistakes.
The second reason is that this wording reveals a completely ingenuous analysis, which states that a unilateral reduction of subsidies by the European Union could solve the problems.
Especially at a time when the United States has just approved an agricultural policy in which they increase their subsidies and especially when it is widely known that this new American policy is heightening the depression in world prices.
All these reasons, therefore, explain why the wording of items 6 and 7 in this declaration on agriculture is known in politics as 'shooting oneself in the foot': this weakens the European Union, this European Union that has until now been the most powerful force promoting the interests of the poorest countries.
This is what happened after Rio, this is what happened after Kyoto, even though, in the meantime, Rio and Kyoto became undeniable milestones in the area of sustainable development.
Responsible globalisation must become the process of a global economic development that makes genuine global solidarity possible.
In 2001, a year that did not bode well for international investment, private investment flows towards developing countries amounted to over USD 200 billion, in other words already four times more than the total state aid.
The endorsement of both a Plan of Implementation - focusing, inter alia, on poverty reduction, health, technology transfer and trade - and the political declaration setting forth an international commitment to work together to improve the use and distribution of natural and energy resources provides an ambitious goal for both developed and developing countries in terms of restoring the balance in North-South relations in the world and achieving sustainability of development and progress policies.
Policy on climate could then also become integrated in a climate strategy.
Secondly, policy on climate should be placed much more in the context of development.
Sustainable energy is local and can give an enormous boost to development.
We should not only send out this message in Johannesburg, but also in Brussels and Strasbourg, and preferably every day.
Member States must invest jointly in the development of sustainable energy and energy efficiency.
The Sixth Framework Programme for research and Article 169 offer good opportunities in this area.
A flagship project is visible to the citizens and can play a key role in public awareness.
This time, though, there was a real decision on sustainability and on the fisheries sector, which has undergone such a severe battering.
Mr President, Commissioners you will be beginning to find our speeches repetitive.
Great: in a multi-national and cross-party body, that means our message will get through.
The failure to achieve targets for renewable energy - a failure for which the United States, to their shame, are largely responsible - can be overcome with goodwill and effort from the European Union.
We know from experience since Rio that it is one thing to make agreements but another to ensure they are implemented.
This takes away freedom of choice, undermines human dignity and works against sustainability.
Mr President, Commissioners, if we are critical of the results of the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development, it is because we were in fact expecting much more.
Mrs Wallström, you said it was time to turn our words into actions, and the Secretary-General of the United Nations also said this, using other words, but just as forcefully.
Frustration should make us far more ambitious and, even if only by means of voluntary agreements, we in the European institutions, the Commission, the Council and Parliament, must move forward with all these proposals - many more than those on the table - because, in fact, the maintenance of living conditions in the world might depend on the example we set here in the European Union, where we do have that political will.
If we - each and every country - show this will and this commitment to agreements, programmes, dates - not with words but with actions - the agreements that are currently still voluntary could be extended to other countries and in ten years European good practice could mean that in future Johannesburg will not be what it is today.
The summit pointed in the right direction but we must also take account of the fact that the rich countries are going to have to pay for the policies that were outlined in Johannesburg and that control mechanisms must be established to ensure, as has already been said, that words are translated into action.
Mr President, the previous speaker referred to Voltaire.
Unfortunately, I am afraid that we will meet here again in five or ten years and that we will then see that a great many of the problems that have quite rightly been identified in connection with Johannesburg will have become worse.
As early as 1992 in Rio de Janeiro it was seen that current patterns of production and consumption are not working in a world with seven to eight billion people.
At the same time, everyone wants the poor countries to develop.
It is therefore obvious that production and consumption must change.
What I had hoped for from Johannesburg was a real commitment from the rich countries to assist with the modernisation of patterns of production and consumption in the poor countries.
I look forward to initiatives from the Commission in these areas.
As regards the initiatives that the Commission took in the areas of water and energy, we have never had an opportunity to present any opinions, something which is somewhat frustrating considering that there is indisputable commitment and interest in these areas.
I believe it is very difficult to assess either the role of the European Union or the results of the Johannesburg Summit.
It should also be said at this juncture that, on the most important demands, coordination between the European Union and the candidate countries worked.
One generally wonders whether it makes sense to stage UN summits of this sort at short intervals and then end up with little substance to the agenda at a summit on sustainability.
I would, however, like to express my gratitude for the clear position that the European Union has taken up on these issues.
Mr President, Parliament's task is, in the first place, to monitor the Commission and, in general, the Council's and Commission's achievements in Johannesburg.
In my view, Commissioner Wallström was right in saying that the European Union was the driving force behind the Johannesburg Summit.
Despite this, some positive results have been achieved which have been mentioned in this debate.
Another positive development is what has finally been said in the documents on fisheries and on energy, although concerning the latter, these documents could have easily been a bit more constructive in the chapters on wind and solar energy and hydropower.
These texts are upbeat, even the introduction in the text on agriculture and relevant subsidies is upbeat, in my view.
The fact that we made little progress in this area in Johannesburg should serve as an incentive to address it within the EU and outside it as a matter of priority.
I am, however, somewhat surprised about the comments by Commissioner Nielson on this score.
I think that the MEPs who attended the summit had a positive attitude and that better cooperation and communication benefits us all.
I therefore hope that in future, at other conferences too - for this was not a one-off problem, but one that also plays a part elsewhere - better cooperation will be established between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I shall not reiterate them, just as I shall refrain from reiterating the negative points, the specifics, aid, renewable sources of energy etc., issues which my honourable friends have already raised.
We said before Johannesburg that we need to strike a balance between development and trade on the one hand and environmental protection on the other.
A second point we made was that we needed to incorporate the cost of environmental protection into our production and our consumption in the most practical way possible.
A third point we made was that we would at least try to keep to and, of course, build on and implement what was said in Rio.
A fourth point we highlighted was the policy and international dimension of environmental protection and sustainable development.
This is why it is logical that these G77 countries have focused on the traditional fight against poverty and for clean drinking water, sanitary facilities and energy for the poor.
We must, however, search our own conscience.
Too many key players in Europe, particularly Commissioners Lamy and Nielson, saw Johannesburg only as an intermediary step between Doha and Cancùn.
This is not helped by the fact that we still have not reformed our own agricultural policy and that we consider our own trade interests to be more important than sustainable development.
If it is impossible to conclude a treaty at world level, Europe should at least act consistently on its own patch.
What we need, for example, is a UN treaty in which multinational businesses are required to issue a social and environmental report that is inspected by independent accountants.
Volkswagen is already doing this.
My group would like to see us adopt an even-handed approach in trade policy.
It is essential for a balance to be struck between social, economic and environmental components.
Moreover, we should try to achieve this balance in the developed and the developing countries alike.
The Johannesburg Summit has culminated in a plan of action which mainly focuses on the economic goals and not so much on the environmental goals.
The Kyoto Protocol has been drafted for climate, but ratification and implementation are still a major point of concern.
In addition, the summit did not manage to reach definite agreement on sustainable energy.
The fight against poverty can create scope for environmental protection, for it is true that if people have no food, no housing and no clean drinking water, environmental protection is often a concern for later.
In other words, we must create a support structure for environmental protection and this is why it is our primary task to do something about the fight against poverty.
If the agreement, taken from the Johannesburg plan of action, that trade policy should not affect the development of poor countries and is taken seriously in the area of the environment, this will have far-reaching consequences for European agricultural and trade policy.
I should like to hear from both Commissioners what their views are on this.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, I believe that we are all staunch advocates of the need to improve the quality of the environment.
Secondly, the countries which do most to protect the environment are democratic countries where human rights are respected, the countries with open economies.
The increase in development aid has been mentioned: that is all well and good, but I would point out, first and foremost to the European Commissioners and Commissioner Nielson, that much of the aid which Europe appropriates serves to fund dictatorships, non-democratic countries, countries without open economies.
In those countries, our funding does not lead to improvement of either the quality of the environment or environmental policies.
Mr President, I would like to thank you all for a good, comprehensive debate.
Mrs Scheele wished that there had also been coordination with the candidate countries.
I would like to mention again that at the ASEM Summits last week and this week a decision was made at the request of the Chinese to hold a preparatory conference on agricultural policy in Beijing, so that the European and Asian countries can be as well equipped as possible for the summit in Cancún.
At any event there will be opportunity to continue this dialogue with a number of other countries.
This is very amusing and we should always bear it in mind since, after all, Andersen and Voltaire had a keen sense of the human urge to forget the cares of the world when it suits us.
However, I think that at the end of my contribution I should be allowed to point out that the institutions of the EU did good work in Johannesburg.
There is one new aspect that is very important: the water and energy initiatives are EU initiatives.
The things we need to change cannot be changed easily.
The balance between the issues of trade, development and the environment has been taken up by a number of speakers.
We must remember that the basis on which we were able to work in Johannesburg was very clearly defined by decisions in the Council clarifying our mandate.
If we had not cleared this up, and done what we did in Doha and Monterrey in order to allow the world to discuss sustainable development in Johannesburg, the whole thing would have been one big mess, damaging our attempts to tackle our problems with liberalising, and reducing subsidies for, agriculture.
I noted Minister Haarder's remarks when he said that he could not promise any changes here today.
Strangely enough this is exactly what I told Members of Parliament in Johannesburg.
Nor should we regard this debate as simply a discussion between Members of Parliament and a Commissioner.
It is therefore a mistake to think that this discussion is just between Parliament and the Commission.
I would certainly have welcomed full participation by parliamentarians until the end of the summit.
Unfortunately, however, after the weekend, very few stayed in Johannesburg until the end.
Mrs Evans stressed the importance of enforcing monitoring.
Mrs Scheele also asked how we are monitoring the financial commitments to development assistance levels made by Member States and the Union collectively in Monterrey.
This means that every donor country is obliged to submit information which the Commission will use to gain feedback.
Article 47 of the political declaration was the result of a huge battle that was fought, day and night, before we finally managed, with the support of Canada, to get the established Cairo terms accepted.
So we see the water initiative there not only as an aim in itself but as something which is also very positive with regard to its indirect effects.
Mr President, we have been here since 9 a.m.
Some Members have taken pleasure in attacking the Commission on the pretext that it has, apparently, failed to communicate sufficient information.
In my view, the Commission did a good job in Johannesburg.
I also think that the same Members who criticised the Commission should have at least stayed in the Chamber to listen to the answers provided by the Commissioners and the Council.
I just wanted to say this: the Commissioner referred to the presence of MEPs in Johannesburg and said, I think somewhat condescendingly, that we left before the work was finished and would have done well to have stayed until the end.
I would first like to comment on that and then make some concluding remarks about our discussion on Johannesburg.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
It is ridiculous to seek majority agreements with the G77 countries, who were allies at Rio and Kyoto, whilst the Union's own plan for a sustainable development within its borders has failed!
The 'Biodiversity' action plan is honourable, though it is nothing more than a pious hope.
It is our essential political and moral responsibility to demand of ourselves what we are demanding of others.
The Commission must provide an annual presentation of the progress made in integrating the dimension of sustainable development in all Community policies.
Mr President, on a point of order, on Monday I raised a point of order about Rule 2 and yesterday had the Minutes corrected to indicate the exact purport of that point.
Mr Jové Peres was one of the rapporteurs in question and he made a statement this morning.
I fully accept what he said and if I caused him embarrassment I would like to apologise.
The next speaker on that day was Konrad Adenauer who said that the new Assembly 'marked fresh and significant progress in our project of creating a new Europe'.
The delegation is led by Senator Gabriel Valdés, Chairman of the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee.
As you know, the European Union and Chile have signed an agreement on economic partnership, political coordination and cooperation.
The British delegation of the PPE-DE Group has previously sought to amend reports which it did not support.
The new rule, however, leaves us no option but to vote against certain reports.
The principle of equal rights for all is one of the most important cornerstones of our society.
The collectivisation of rights can be the first step towards the reduction of their importance.
Mrs Miet Smet's excellent report once again provides us with the opportunity to condemn the dearth of European statistics on the number of women in the social partner organisations.
Although many strategies have been implemented in order to remedy the underrepresentation of women in the upper echelons of these organisations, as well as in delegations to social consultation and advisory bodies, we must, as the rapporteur recommends, make a start at European level on the systematic compilation of data relating to the role played by women in the decision-making process.
After reading this excellent report, I can only recommend that you vote in favour and reiterate that the Commission must urgently compile these data in the proper fashion with a view to creating a database on the representation of women within social partner organisations. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (DE) I voted in favour of the report on the representation of women among the social partners of the European Union.
I believe that it is particularly important to achieve balanced representation of women at leadership level in trade unions, which, in wage negotiations, play an important part in promoting equality of opportunity.
The increased presence of women will thus help to create new points of view on all the policies defined by the social partners.
This report is heading in this direction and must be given backing so that the European Parliament can gain further credibility in terms of its objectives.
It is clear that this report is also applicable to the framework of enlargement, and that it is important to start to involve the candidate countries immediately in the process of making the presence of women more balanced.
The British delegation of the PPE-DE Group has previously sought to amend reports which it did not support.
Three: the Commission needs to submit a communication on quantitative environmental targets in the transport sector by the end of 2002, so that transport also contributes to the 8% Kyoto reduction target in the gas emissions responsible for the greenhouse effect, stressing the need for all motor vehicles to be included in the strategy to reduce CO2 emissions.
Four: in industry, the Commission should immediately propose a framework directive on fluorinated gases in order to reduce emissions in all sectors.
Six: at a political level, the European Union should condemn the USA's lack of environmental measures and its efforts to undermine the Kyoto Protocol as a minimum reaction to the USA's failure to take any action.
Work on environmental policy must be more clearly focused on emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
We have voted in favour of the present report as we consider that attempts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and achieve the targets in the Kyoto Protocol are important.
Items 16, 26, 34 and 35 advocate the coordination and harmonisation of environmental and energy taxation.
A carbon dioxide tax might need to vary among the Member States, since it must be set off against other measures that the Member States need to take to achieve the lower emission targets. . (NL) Freight transport by road has increased considerably over the past 20 years.
The Commission is right to conclude that this problem must be addressed by shifting from the roads to rail, inland shipping and coastal shipping.
I fully share the objectives of the Marco Polo programme, and the rapporteur's view on how to reduce road congestion and improve the environmental performance of the worldwide transport system.
I also believe that congestion constitutes a threat both to the environment and to the vitality of the economy and am, therefore, in favour of measures that reduce congestion and pollution and encourage the transfer of freight transport from road to rail, inland waterways and short sea shipping.
To take the whole cross-border element out, and to try and look at the whole question of harmonising legal aid throughout the European Union, is - in my opinion and that of my Group - bound to lead to one hell of a muddle.
In the wake of the attacks of 11 September, the Council urged the Commission to examine urgently the links between maintaining domestic security and respecting international obligations in the area of the right to asylum.
The quantitative and qualitative targets set at the Lisbon Summit and the fact that promoting high levels of employment was included in the European Union's main objectives has helped fight unemployment and reduce the number of unemployed to 13 million.
What happens, however, when a Member State such as Greece, where unemployment has risen from 6.3% to 11.1% in the ten years between 1990 and 2000, has had the same recommendations on combating unemployment since 1998?
A European policy in these areas cannot take account of the great differences that exist between the Member States.
We even consider that coordination and harmonisation within these areas could put continued EU cooperation at risk.
That is why several things must be done: we must call on the Commission to analyse the causes of the weak economic growth in the Union and to put forward proposals with a view to encouraging genuine and meaningful growth in order to increase the number of jobs.
Regarding the substance, we should emphasise the development of local and regional labour markets in order to boost initiatives designed to attract productive investments and to encourage economic balance, social cohesion and job creation in the least-developed areas and regions.
For 50 years, there have been calls for more attention to solidarity with those who will never occupy economic positions of power.
The trade movement asked for a 'Social Europe', and the Council, the Commission and Parliament created the impression that this social Europe was on its way.
The 2000 social summit in Lisbon was not about pensions, social benefits, reducing working hours, public investments, strengthening public services and economic stability, but about large-scale privatisations and increasing company profits.
Unlimited economic growth without redistribution was said to automatically solve all social problems.
This policy completely ignores the fact that the crisis in 1929 could only be halted by active government intervention, as advocated by the economist Keynes.
The European Union's restructuring policy does not create jobs, it restricts them, especially full-time, stable jobs, while so-called growth deprives millions of people of the right to work or offers them a poor substitute in the form of part-time employment, with all the financial and social consequences that has for family life.
It is becoming increasingly important to focus national employment policies and the European Employment Strategy itself on giving dignity to labour and not only on the economic aspects of harmonising the EU's productivity index with the USA, which is mentioned often in the Commission communication.
A role that is based on co-decision, which is now required in recital R in the adopted report, would undermine open coordination as a method.
In my statement here I will concentrate on the following topics: Afghanistan, the fight against terrorism, the Middle East, Iraq, India, Pakistan, Russia and Africa.
The situation there remains frail, but the Loya Jirga process still provides a good basis on which to build.
The role of the central government must therefore be strengthened and the influence of the warlords reduced.
Civil society and the role and rights of women must similarly be strengthened.
Reforms must be implemented within the judicial system and police, and a national army under civil control must be established.
Implementation within the EU of UN Security Council Resolution 1373 on freezing the financial resources of terrorist groups may be mentioned here in particular.
Moreover, based on the Seville European Council, the EU's action plan and the Council conclusions of 22 July 2002, the Danish Presidency will aim to move EU policy forward as regards the EU's international role in the fight against terrorism, including in particular cooperation with third countries and relevant international organisations.
In the Seville declaration, the European Council defined the Common Foreign and Security Policy's contribution to the fight against terrorism, including the contribution of the security and defence policy.
As a follow-up to this, on 22 July the Council approved a number of decisions with a view to implementing the Seville declaration.
These included a revision of the dimensions relating to combating terrorism through the links with third countries, including such links in the form of conventions and specific measures that can help third countries to meet their obligations under UN Security Council Resolution 1373.
I would also like to say a few words about the non-proliferation and disarmament policy.
On 15 April 2002, the Council adopted as many as 42 concrete measures that will help to strengthen multilateral instruments, export controls, cooperation and political dialogue.
In the Middle East, Iraq still is a serious source of concern as far as weapons of mass destruction are concerned.
We agree with President Bush on this point, which he emphasised in his speech to the United Nations General Assembly recently.
Iraq has violated various Security Council resolutions in respect of the country's disarmament obligations.
The EU is firmly resolved to support the United Nations' continued efforts in this respect.
Among other things, the Security Council has demanded that Iraq give the UN weapons inspectors unconditional and unfettered access and ensure that the country's authorities cooperate to the extent required.
On 16 September the Iraqi Government notified the Secretary-General of the UN that it accepted the return of the weapons inspectors.
At this juncture, I would like to say something about the Middle East.
It is two years now since the violent Israeli-Palestinian conflict broke out again.
The EU's response is that this progress should be utilised for the resumption of political negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians which are able to give both parties concrete prospects of a peaceful solution to the conflict.
Firstly, entry this year into an Israeli-Palestinian security agreement that will stop the violence and pave the way for the Palestinian presidential and parliamentary elections that are expected to be held on 20 January 2003.
Following these elections, negotiations are to be started on the establishment of a Palestinian state with temporary borders, and this is to take place in the autumn of 2003.
We will then enter the third phase, in which a final peace agreement is to be entered into, adopting positions on the difficult issues of Jerusalem, borders, refugees and settlers which must be solved before the final establishment of a Palestinian state in mid-2005.
In parallel with this - if we are to achieve a comprehensive peace - efforts must be made to resume the negotiations with Syria and Lebanon, so that the process can lead to an overall peace solution in the Middle East.
The Danish EU Presidency has offered to host the conference and thus also the meeting of the Quartet that is expected to be held in connection with the donor conference.
The EU and the Presidency are working in accordance with the declaration made by the Seville European Council on the holding of an early peace conference which will be able to discuss and reach agreement on a timetable for the road ahead towards lasting peace in the Middle East.
I have noted that, in its recent report on developments in the EU's Common Foreign and Security Policy, the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy also shares this approach.
The members of the Middle East Quartet have agreed to continue discussions on the date and modalities of such an international peace conference.
The Danish Presidency intends to continue this policy and to work actively towards a detailed timetable which can pave the way for a peaceful solution to one of the most enduring conflicts in recent history.
What happened - as all of you here know - is that there were two suicide attacks in Israel.
In recent days, the Presidency has been in close contact with the parties about the situation as well as with Russia, the USA and Egypt, and we have sent representatives to the region.
It is crucial that the heralded American/Jordanian/Egyptian support of Palestinian police and security forces is put into effect very quickly so that there is a unified security system on the Palestinian side with which Israel feels reasonably secure.
Radical groups also threaten peace in the relationship between India and Pakistan, which remains tense.
The EU is still prepared to contribute to the international efforts to reduce the current crisis, to promote measures to create confidence and to create the conditions for dialogue between the parties on a lasting solution to the conflict.
Local elections are currently being held in Jammu and Kashmir.
However, it is our hope that the elections in Jammu and Kashmir will be able to pave the way for a resumption of the dialogue between India and Pakistan on a long-term solution.
India has opposed international election observers, but representatives of a number of EU countries' embassies in New Delhi will be present during the elections.
It goes without saying that how the EU gets on with Russia and how Russia gets on with us plays a crucial role in the peaceful development of Europe.
The lead-up to the summit between the EU and Russia, which will take place in Copenhagen on 11 November 2002, will provide us with an opportunity to take stock of five years of partnership and cooperation.
On 30 September the Council will discuss the investigation of this issue carried out by the Commission in order, in consultation with Poland and Lithuania, to find a solution complying with current Community law.
The purpose of such a strategy will be to encourage democratic and economic reforms in the neighbouring countries and to strengthen cross-border cooperation with these countries.
On 30 September 2002 the Council will go through the contributions that have already been received concerning the European Union's links with its new neighbours.
A communication that the Commission will present in the course of the autumn will naturally supplement these deliberations and hopefully lead to a decision in December.
On 22 July the EU tightened up its restrictions against Zimbabwe by adding a number of names to the list of people covered by the travel ban.
The EU notes with increasing concern that a food crisis is rapidly developing in southern Africa and that the humanitarian situation is deteriorating.
This aid initiative is being targeted at those countries hardest hit - namely Zimbabwe, Malawi and Zambia.
A number of political decisions and measures taken by the governments in the region, particularly that of Zimbabwe, have further contributed to worsening the already alarming humanitarian situation.
We have therefore made it clear that under no circumstances must food aid be used as a political tool and that the recipient countries must ensure that it is distributed fairly and entirely without political considerations.
Before I hand over now to Mr Tassos Yiannitsis I would like to say that I agree with the report's remarks on the EU's successful work in the Balkans.
The second point I wanted to mention concerns the development of military capabilities, which are perhaps the most important factor in completing the Union's operational capabilities and which have also made considerable progress.
The Spanish Presidency also pushed on with the application of the plan in question, and I should like to acknowledge that.
What this means in practice is that we have given the go-ahead for specific operations to be undertaken in the Balkans, such as the policing mission in Bosnia and Task Force Fox in the FYROM.
My fourth point concerns the European Union's first exercise, which was conducted during the Spanish Presidency and allowed the procedures planned to be tested and conclusions to be drawn which will be invaluable in improving these procedures in the future.
And as part of this procedural operational framework for the defence and security policy mechanism, I should also mention that framework guidelines defining the funding system for military operations, which is again a very important aspect, were adopted in Seville.
As far as the first question is concerned, progress has not been exactly spectacular.
The reason given for this in certain quarters is the delay in dealing with the outstanding issue of participation.
Here too, progress has been made, as noted in the Seville conclusions, thanks to the efforts of the Spanish Presidency which, working with the General Secretariat and with the help of certain partners actively involved in the overall issue, brokered a compromise proposal before Seville.
Unfortunately, this proposal has still not been developed.
As far as relations with third countries are concerned, significant progress was also made in Seville, which adopted arrangements to broaden the provisions made in Nice on the involvement in European defence and security policy of potential partners, such as Canada, Russia and the Ukraine.
As far as the European Union's taking over the Task Force Fox operation in the FYROM is concerned, serious preparations have also been made here.
The European Parliament, with its direct links to the citizens of Europe and with its sensitive approach to important issues in the European Union, will, we are sure, help with this new dimension currently being structured in the European Union.
For our part, we shall do our very best during our presidency.
When we met here 11 months ago to discuss the previous CFSP Report, we had just been hit by the terrorist attacks in the United States and the war in Afghanistan.
The impact of 11 September on world politics has been immense.
That is why all Members in this House are united in thinking that the right way of approaching the problem of Iraq is through the means of the United Nations.
In our cooperation with the US, but also more generally, the European Union has shown resolve in the pursuit of this multilateral approach to foreign policy.
I am worried that despite almost indefatigable efforts of many, the Berlin-plus issue remains unsettled with consequences, as we know, for our aspirations in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Finally, bilateral relations have continued to expand in the past year with virtually all major countries in the world.
Today, we have an ambitious, comprehensive, bilateral agenda with Russia, including a structured and intensive dialogue on Common Foreign and Security Policy.
There are four issues that I would like to touch on in particular.
The political action on Iraq at present is in New York and that is exactly where it should be.
The assassination attempt on President Karzai and the bomb in central Kabul earlier this month are just the most recent examples of the fragility of Afghanistan.
We must not spare efforts to help the central government extend its authority to the entire country.
The regional agenda, important as it is, must not stop us from thinking ahead.
The architecture of the treaties is complex and our work on CFSP is right at the institutional frontiers.
Secondly, there are preparations for the consequences of enlargement on CFSP and ESDP.
We have to make CFSP structures responsive enough to cater for 10 or more new Member States.
Our work on conflict indicators will be instrumental in gearing diplomatic action and aid programming towards conflict prevention and crisis management.
But I must say, and I hope it will not be regarded as a revolutionary observation, that however much we discuss improving instruments, however much we discuss institutional architecture, in my judgment on the basis of three years' experience there is no substitute for political will.
That code is politically binding on the Member States, and the Commission has a limited role in this process.
We nevertheless welcome progress made in the Council with respect to improving the implementation of the code and enhancing transparency provided through the annual report.
We also welcome the suggestions for all Member States to publish national annual reports for ensuring the maximum involvement of the accession countries in information exchange and denial notification as well as for promoting adherence to the principles of the code by third countries.
The Presidency has spoken about the Middle East and about the positive atmosphere at our Quartet meeting of 17 September.
Unfortunately the situation on the ground gives no reason to believe that things will get any better soon.
There was a six-week period of calm - calm of a sort, at any rate, even though during that period 50 Palestinians were killed.
But this new understanding seems to have evaporated and the Palestinian Authority and President Arafat have again become the target of an assault in retaliation for suicide attacks by those who do not believe in peace.
I repeat: through the same bank account and using the same monitoring mechanism which was set up as a result of the efforts of the European Commission and the European Union.
I hope that the irony of that remark is not lost on some of those who have been criticising the efforts that we have made in order to promote the cause of reform in the Palestinian Authority.
This is a very positive sign of parliamentary life.
The European Union is ready to provide assistance if there is a minimum guarantee that the elections will be free and fair.
This has been recently highlighted by UN envoy Catherine Bertini in her sobering report on the humanitarian situation in the Palestinian territories: two thirds of the population is under the poverty line and up to half of the population is currently unemployed.
The situation must dramatically improve if we are to avoid a humanitarian catastrophe.
Providing humanitarian assistance can only be a short-term approach - improving the economy must be our goal.
Finally, the Quartet agreed to hold in November a ministerial-level meeting of the Ad-Hoc Liaison Committee, involving the major donors in the international community.
But there is a danger of this becoming a sort of virtual politics, while the real situation on the ground goes from bad to worse to appalling.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Council and the Commission for having responded to comments that the rapporteur has not even made yet.
As you know, we have a joint debate, including two reports and statements.
In the context of the joint debate it was the collective will of the political groups to follow the order as indicated.
There, the European Union is playing a positive part in the interests of stability, security and democracy.
Afghanistan has been mentioned, and here too Europeans have been active; 13 of the 15 EU States are involved in Afghanistan, whether militarily or in other ways.
What is actually astonishing is that, although we - by which I mean the European Union and its Member States - are the greatest donors of funds, this actually goes almost without being noticed.
What we are saying, with the utmost clarity, is that Israel has the right to live within secure borders, but the Palestinian people also have the right to live in peace and within secure borders.
The representatives of the Palestinian people must also be given opportunities to express their views and suggest sensible ways ahead for the future.
However, as long as European leaders set greater store by internal political considerations than they do by common foreign policy, our endeavours in this area will be in vain and we will continue to give America all the political leeway it needs to determine its own agenda.
It remains crucial, though, for a common foreign policy in Europe to become more important than the political leaders' own national profile.
It is in this context that the President-in-Office of the Council speaks of optimism and sees the main obstacle to peace to be the Palestinians.
You are obviously right to condemn outright the suicide attacks and any act of terrorism against innocent people, in Israel just as in any other country.
Europe must live up to the world's expectations of it.
Today, you unfortunately fell far short of them. (Applause from the left) Mr President, in addition to what we have been saying over and over again for some time now, I would like to make two comments.
The US Administration is putting forward a new strategy for re-organising the world.
Over the last 50 years, we have attempted to put in place a global justice system and global rules by means of global institutions such as the UN.
It is clear that, in a region such as the Middle East, there are two states, two entities that do not respect the decisions of the UN.
Mr President, for a period of six weeks there was a form of peace in the Middle East and our attention turned to Iraq.
That peace has been shattered by renewed acts of terror intended to wreck the peace process.
Once again suicide bombers attacked in Israel.
Force cannot defeat force, but peace can be built on peace.
For far too long the Palestinian people have been denied their legitimate rights.
The people of Israel also live in a situation of insecurity.
Mr President, what is reprehensible in the Brok Report - as we have already said, but it is increasingly clear - and, generally speaking, in the CFSP's approach, is this belief, which could be described as surreal, that the EU Member States are automatically associated due to Europe's natural general interest in the world, so that all we need to do is conjure up a pre-existing and straightforward foreign policy that is familiar to the initiated at the very least, to enable the European Union to become, quite naturally, a major player on the world stage.
Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we should perhaps reflect sooner or later on the very way the CFSP is put into practice, because we are verging on a degree of absurdity, by constantly repeating that we will do better next time and that, from one report to the next, we will be able to define a common foreign policy.
Mr President, looking at the dramatic way the current geopolitical situation has become more acute since 11 September last, there is much to be said for Europe having a Common Foreign and Security Policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that both the European Union's history and its contemporary outlook provide great proof of its capacity for peacemaking, in the form of the development and enlargement of the European Union itself.
I hope that these negotiations lead to a constructive result that incorporates both points of view.
The European Union is also on the right track in other areas, for example in the Barcelona process.
We are proud that we are able to say that we spend three times as much of our budget on preventive action in the area of external policy than does the United States of America.
But - and this is the big 'but' - Europe still lacks a voice when it comes to the real issues of war and peace.
Yet it is only together that we can exert the pressure that is needed to keep the dictator's hands away from weapons of mass destruction, and, on the other hand, to be able to enforce a process of consultation with the United States of America, one that will give consideration not only to the risks of a military intervention but also to all the options for a peaceful solution to the problem of how to eliminate the weapons of mass destruction that Saddam Hussein has in his possession, and does so in tandem with the United Nations.
In neither of these directions have we demonstrated our capacity to give our citizens security, and we have known since 11 September that security is no longer clearly bounded by certain frontiers, but that it is also possible for a mere handful of terrorists to be operating with dangerous weapons in the midst of our own countries and to be capable of killing people in their thousands.
This has to do with the fact that most people in our Member States have not yet grasped that the small size and weakness of our Member States means that national interests can only be safeguarded if we pool our capacities.
I do believe that much of the good that was said in the aftermath of 11 September is now forgotten and was locked away in governments' desk drawers not long after it saw the light of day.
Let us take, for example, the issue of external and internal security.
Let us just retrieve the great speeches our Heads of State or Government delivered after 11 September, and let us see how much was put into practice.
I believe that our projects will only succeed insofar as we fashion a vessel in which a common European will can develop in the area of foreign, security and defence policy.
What this shows is that, when it comes to these issues, the European Union must at last come to realise where its interests lie.
We should begin by recognising that the Code of Conduct is the most comprehensive international arms export control regime in existence.
The application of the Code is leading Member States towards greater dialogue, mutual understanding and greater convergence.
Therefore, we are very pleased that the third Annual Report states that guidelines for controlling arms brokers have been agreed in Council, that Member States should be looking to register arms brokers, and that these legal controls should be supported by penalties.
We have called for greater transparency, both at national and European level, we recognise that some of the problem of lack of transparency is created by different Member States collecting information in different ways.
At a national level, we welcome the fact that the third Annual Report has set out a matrix, seeking to note where information converges and where it does not.
We have asked in any case that these discussions should not be bilateral but multilateral.
Finally, I would say that the third Annual Report is a huge step forward, but on closer inspection, much of it is about words and intentions rather than actions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was possible, at the Helsinki Summit, to get the impression that we really were on the way to having a common European defence policy.
The Heads of State or Government of the time set themselves ambitious objectives, and the early months made it possible to assume that these objectives would be achieved relatively speedily and within the time limits envisaged.
The current proposal that NATO should deploy and build up a crisis intervention force makes it clear that our American friends have also lost confidence that we Europeans can actually reach the decisions that are required.
This should prompt us to make new attempts along these lines, as this European crisis intervention force is, as I see it, an essential step towards securing peace around the European Union.
We have common rules on arms exports, we have a common code and a code of conduct, but these rules are interpreted in different ways.
All 15 EU countries, after all, form a community of values composed of democratic states, and this leads me to believe that such a thing is possible, as are substantial savings, estimated by experts at EUR 240 billion per annum.
At present, this burden rests primarily on the shoulders of our counterparts in the national parliaments, but, the more this European policy develops, the more this Parliament will also have to take upon itself this crucial task.
The last time, when all the Palestinian groups, under pressure from Mr Arafat, were considering the possibility of putting an end to suicide attacks against civilians in Israel, Mr Sharon's political response was to bomb an entire building in the Gaza strip, killing dozens of people, including eleven children.
Foreign policy is one of the most important areas in which we really need strong European cooperation.
For us Liberals, it is important that foreign policy be based on a clear strategy, characterised by the defence of democracy and human rights, respect for international conventions, free trade, conflict management and cooperation with other nations and organisations.
My group also fully supports Mr Titley's report.
Of course, Saddam Hussein must be made to change, but his people must change too.
As long as we continue along this path, Palestinians and Israelis will endure death and suffering for, as everyone is aware, Ariel Sharon's policy is a criminal policy which is destroying both his own and the Palestinian people.
After all, we do not have a Common Foreign and Security Policy, and we need this in the first pillar with input from Parliament.
Although it is in place, it is not enforceable, not at European level or in our countries.
Various countries are yet to incorporate this Code of Conduct in their own legislation and add the necessary penal provisions.
Belgium supplies weapons to countries such as Nepal, while Germany, for example, had refused to do so.
President Arafat is still enclosed in his headquarters, which have been reduced to a miserable cement hut, deprived of freedom of movement.
Mr President, the Council and Commission statements on the Middle East have made a significant contribution to the road map to peace that was drawn up by the European Union and adopted by our partners, the United States, Russia and the UN.
Mr President, representatives of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join previous speakers in expressing my concern over the physical and moral siege that the leader of the Palestinian Authority, Yasser Arafat, is currently experiencing.
The European Union, Mr President, must demand, clearly and convincingly, that the United Nations resolutions be complied with.
In civilian matters, the Union once again provided substantial humanitarian and material aid, but its political role remained very low-key.
In Iraq, in response to US intentions, the Union did, to its credit, reiterate the role that the United Nations should play.
But what can the High Representative do, when confronted with the conflicting positions of the members of the Council of Ministers?
Once again, this method is showing its limitations.
If our governments continue to disagree or choose silence or inaction, if, therefore, the Union has no genuine foreign policy or any genuine security policy, then we must change method and perhaps use the Community method instead.
But as you said, Commissioner, nothing is a substitute for political will.
The need for this code became apparent recently in my country, Belgium, where a minister resigned over an arms delivery to Nepal.
Incidentally, I should like to note my regret at the fact that a number of Green MEPs have seized on this report for internal political purposes and I am surprised, Mr Staes, at their tabling amendments in which they condemn a decision made by the Belgian Government, while their Green colleagues endorsed this very decision in government.
However, far more fundamental is that the Belgian Government has announced its willingness to include the provisions of the Code of Conduct in national legislation, as a result of which this code will become legally binding.
I hope that other Member States will follow this example.
Far too much weight has been placed on military security policy, while civil and economic security policy is left in the shadows.
I consider that to be getting your priorities wrong, because in fact it is precisely this area in which the EU has a unique opportunity and some unique resources.
The USA is unilaterally prioritising military security policy.
Unfortunately my own country has helped to prevent some of these opportunities, for example by not wishing to be part of renegotiating the Association Agreement with Israel.
The options created as a result only amount to 10%.
This means that it is of vital importance for cooperation and efficiency to be improved.
This is why my group is completely convinced that an increase in defence expenditure is unnecessary, completely unfeasible in financial terms and wholly undesirable from a political perspective.
Unfortunately, you have had to repeat here what many of your predecessors have said before you, namely that no compromise has as yet been reached on the EU's use of NATO funds.
Mr President, on the Brok report, I remain sceptical of the need to formally institute a CFSP or an ESDP.
A great advantage of EU enlargement in the long run is the inclusion of a country such as, for example, Ukraine, whose aspirations to join the EU the Commission is, sadly, ignoring.
Enlargement will bind these countries to the West, encourage economic prosperity and make a much more coordinated fight against crime and illegal immigration possible when organisations such as Europol have a formal mandate.
I do not share all the Brok report's objectives, but I remain an interested observer of this revolutionary change from the city state of some 2 000 years ago, to the 19th-century nation-state, and to the EU Member State that we are witnessing today.
Mr Schröder had the courage to say clearly and directly to President Bush what the vast majority of citizens is thinking.
This preventative and solitary war would have been unjust, because, without the authorisation of the United Nations Security Council, it would have caused political difficulties and severe economic setbacks in Europe, it would have alienated the Arab world, it would not have been in the interest of Israel either, as this war would have converted Israel into a fortress perpetually under siege.
According to the findings of the Luxembourg Committee for a Just Peace in the Middle East, this war would have exposed the Palestinians to serious dangers.
Mr President, in a few months, the UN inspectors will tell us whether Iraq really does have military weaponry.
The new world order, proclaimed after the Gulf War by President Bush Snr, has quickly been forgotten.
It must not surprise us if taxpayers complain that this European Union of ours gives out, on the one hand, development aid to these countries, which, on the other, are then destroyed by their own munitions.
My criticism of the British Government is that it has left it far too late to fight the battle for public opinion and that its effort to build a coalition of political support among the Europeans has clearly been poor.
Some Members of this House have a reflex anti-Americanism.
It is all about empowering the European Union and boosting the role of the European Commission in particular.
It has nothing to do with enhancing the security of our citizens.
The European countries should forget the distractions of the European rapid reaction force separate from NATO and concentrate instead on improving military capabilities for alliance operations.
Mr President, a neutral onlooker recording the current crises would observe that there is tension surrounding Iraq and a second area of tension in the Middle East.
Fourthly, a perception of the fact that a common defence and security policy requires certain minimum policies in other sectors.
It is time that Prime Minister Blair stopped dallying with other concepts.
But both moral insight and political common sense mitigate strongly against intervening in Iraq for as long as Israel is not prepared to implement the United Nations resolutions and for as long as Israel is not prepared to allow the Palestinians to elect their political leadership freely and without external pressure.
Recent events show particularly clearly that the current government - and it is not the country of Israel as such - is unwilling to do its bit to break the spiral of violence and stabilise the region.
How much more reasonable and successful it would be surely to let our colleagues in the Palestinian Legislative Council get on with their legitimate political work.
The natural right of any government to defend itself against terrorism is often only used as a pretext.
That is why Europe must defend itself against private terrorism, against unreasonable State military measures and unilateral, external interventions not backed by UN resolutions.
Following the general recognition of Israel, including by the Arab States, it is now time - decades after the founding of the State of Israel - for the second half of the UN resolution concerned to be implemented too, namely the creation of a Palestinian State.
Mr President, I should like to thank Parliament for this debate.
Weighing up the speeches as a whole, it is quite clear that we must see more progress in the CFSP and that we must have more in the way of a common foreign policy.
I am pleased that those are also the conclusions drawn in Parliament's report and in Mr Brok's speech.
The common foreign policy is in actual fact the rule rather than the exception.
It is true that different foreign policy positions are expressed but, when we reach the point of taking the final decision on the common foreign policy, it is usual for us to do so jointly.
That applies in the cases both of the Middle East and of Iraq.
Parliament is right about this.
I have the impression that it has to some extent escaped Parliament's attention that it is the European peace plan that is being worked on at the moment.
As Parliament quite rightly says on this subject - and this is something with which I agree, as does the whole of Europe and, indeed, the whole world - solidarity of this kind would consist in two states existing peacefully side by side, and it is a source of some astonishment that so much blood has to be shed in the region in order to achieve what we all know will be the final outcome.
This has been said quite clearly.
It is also a position that has paid off, because the United States has of course also agreed to comply with, and consult, the Security Council.
Finally, I want to thank Mr Titley for his report on the Code of Conduct on Arms Exports.
We do in fact agree that this is an area in which cooperation, be it on the production side or be it on the research and development side, as well as more general cooperation between countries can bring in significant results.
We believe that Europe, which has made such a tremendous effort and has achieved results in research and development in the non-military sector of the economy, could extend this effort to the area of defence if it wishes to acquire greater autonomy, independence and development potential and derive economic benefit from it.
I should like to point out that the solution we need to aim for is a European foreign and security policy which is open to any third countries wishing to share this new experience with the European Union.
Equally, assuming that any European initiative is wrong and that any scintilla of disagreement with the United States is somehow high treason does not strike me as being a very good basis for the protection of the national interests of any Member State of the European Union.
I am always surprised that some of the most fierce protectors and protestors about national sovereignty seem to suppress that point of view as soon as Richard Pearl raises his voice.
So in the distinguished and ever noble presence of my honourable friend and publisher, ever noble despite the constitutional machinations of New Labour, I commend, as ever, the middle way.
At present, we are trying to get information from Member States on all of their projects.
As soon as we have that information in as accurate a form as possible, we will of course share it with the honourable Member and the whole House.
It is an important point and it should be possible to arrive at a figure.
The sooner we have peace, the sooner we can restore a decent standard of living and quality of life for all the people who live in that region.
Once again, we are witnessing an attack by the Israeli army in Palestine.
This extermination is taking place to prevent people from demanding a fair peace, the right to their own country in which they can live in dignity?
I am alert to the fact that the request for this report has to be seen in terms of Parliament's wish to be kept informed of the EU's deliberations following the United States' request for the Member States to enter into bilateral agreements aimed at preventing American citizens from being handed over to the Court.
The first meeting of states participating in the ICC was held in New York from 3 to 10 September.
It had been well prepared for by the Preparatory Commission (PrepCom) in New York.
It is now up to diplomats and politicians to give the Court the ability to complete what was begun in Rome and continued in New York.
The ICC must establish itself as an effective and independent institution which can accommodate the demands now made by the international community.
The Court must exercise its jurisdiction effectively and independently, in the same way that we expect our national legal systems to.
We have therefore always thought that the United States should be among the participants in the Rome Statute.
The United States could make a particularly positive contribution to the Court and to the way it operates.
MEPs will be familiar with the most recent chapter of the story whereby, in a declaration of 6 May of this year, the United States decided that it did not intend to participate in the Statute that it had in fact signed under the Clinton administration.
The United States' request for bilateral agreements was first discussed by the Council in the Political and Security Committee (PSC) on 26 July.
There was agreement in the PSC on a provisional common response that the Member States could give to the United States in the course of bilateral contacts.
The common response essentially consisted of telling the Americans that the EU remains committed to its obligations to support the ICC and the integrity of the Rome Statute; that the American proposal has far-reaching implications necessitating the more detailed analysis in which we also invited the candidate countries to participate; and that we would come back with an answer as soon as the analysis had been completed.
The Political and Security Committee (PSC) decided to return to the matter at the beginning of September once the Council's experts on international law (COJUR) had discussed the matter on 4 September.
In the meantime, it was decided that it would be useful to have a short discussion of the matter at the meeting in Elsinore at the end of August.
We confirmed that the legal experts should examine the matter with a view to arriving at a common assessment which might lead to agreement as to a common and constructive approach on the part of the EU at the Council meeting on 30 September.
In EU circles, there is agreement that any solution must take account of relevant agreements already entered into with the United States and must be based upon, and reflect, three fundamental principles if the integrity of the Rome Statute is to be preserved.
On the other hand, it is no solution, either, simply to reject the proposal outright for that reason.
When it comes to the categories of person to whom the arrangements would be applicable, the United States wants to see a rule that would exclude everyone, and therefore all Americans, from extradition to the ICC.
There is agreement in the EU that a solution will only be able to cover specified categories of person from countries not participating in the ICC.
The issue of specifying in more detail those to whom the arrangements will apply will continue to be discussed up until 30 September.
We shall now work hard to achieve a solution that can, if possible, accommodate the United States' concerns without in any way undermining the Court.
I also said this at the meetings I had on 3 July and again last week in New York.
In my introductory speech here today, I emphasised that the time has now come for the International Criminal Court to show that it is in a position to function as an effective and independent court.
But when it does not, and the relevant national legal authorities are unwilling or unable to act, the international community will have in place a complementary system of criminal justice that is fair, transparent and effective.
The European Union fully supports the Court.
The principles of the Rome Statute, as well as those governing the functioning of the ICC, are fully in line with the principles and objectives of the Union.
The consolidation of the rule of law and respect for human rights, as well as the preservation of peace and the strengthening of international security, in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations, and as provided for in Article 11 of the EU Treaty, are of fundamental importance to us.
Of course, there is still real work to be done before the ICC can function as intended.
One challenge is to increase the number and broaden the geographical scope of states that have signed and ratified the Rome Statute.
As of today, 139 states have signed the Statute, and 81 have ratified it.
At the moment, of course, the most controversial issue is that of bilateral agreements under Article 98 of the Rome Statute, to which the Presidency referred.
The Commission supports the decision taken by the Foreign Ministers at Helsingør to develop an EU response on Article 98 that seeks to accommodate US concerns without in any way undermining the Rome Statute.
As soon as the details of the European Union position on Article 98 are completed - I hope by the end of this month - we will work with the candidate and EEA States to maintain a united front on the ICC.
With regard to the longer term, the Commission also supports an ongoing dialogue between the European Union and the United States on the future of the International Criminal Court.
An open EU-US dialogue on these matters is critical to the ultimate effectiveness of the Court.
Fairness, transparency and consistency are important to ensure the legitimacy of this new institution in the eyes of the whole world.
European Union Member States should ensure that their handling of this process sets a positive example.
No individual and no country has the right to escape punishment for crimes which concern the international community as a whole.
That is why we want the International Criminal Court to be effective and capable of acting, and I very much welcome the clear statements made by both President Møller and Commissioner Patten.
We call in particular on the accession countries not to enter into any agreements before we have agreed on a common position within the European Union, and I hope very much that on 30 September you will succeed in drafting such a common position.
I very much regret the fact that Romania, an accession country, has concluded an agreement without first awaiting the European Union's position.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty on the International Criminal Court is an indispensable instrument to assert international law.
The founding of this Criminal Court is a European Union project and at the same time it symbolises our system of values.
This demand made by the Bush administration would stand in total contradiction to the aim and purpose of the International Criminal Court.
Some States - so far 12 in number - have succumbed to the huge pressure exerted on them by the United States of America and signed a bilateral agreement with the USA.
I deeply regret this and think that it will have consequences for our relations with these States.
We need only look at Croatia's refusal to hand over General Bobetko to The Hague on the grounds that Croatia was not the aggressor, to see the problems which can arise.
In negotiations on the Rome Statute, Europe bent over backwards to achieve an outcome which would accommodate American concerns.
It is therefore a matter of deep regret to Liberal Democrats in this House that a number of countries have refused to sign the Rome Statute for the ICC.
These countries include Iran, Iraq, North Korea and the United States.
It is bad enough that the USA is refusing to ratify the Rome Statute, but to try to strangle it at birth by reaching bilateral agreements with countries such as Israel and Romania in order to prevent its nationals being surrendered to the ICC is terrible.
UN Security Council Resolution 1422 also sets a dangerous precedent and should not be renewed next July.
The European Union should do its utmost to avoid undermining the ICC before it has even begun its work.
I therefore urge the President-in-Office of the Council to recognise the storm-clouds gathering over this issue and to pull the EU Member States together under one umbrella.
In an age of instability it is understandable that the EU wishes to avoid a breakdown in transatlantic relations, but any agreement with the USA must be supported by all EU countries and be consistent with the Rome Statute.
The countries wishing to join us, including the Czech Republic, Lithuania and Malta, must understand that the values the ICC represents are fundamental to the European Union, and that speedy ratification of the Rome Statute would prevent any delay in their accession.
Neither government must forget that we are accountable to the court of world public opinion.
Madam President, I too apologise to the President-in-Office and the Commissioner, but I must leave the debates, since I must chair a meeting of my party.
Mr President, we have to face the facts regarding the USA, the ICC and the European Union.
Nowadays there are American troops in 140 countries throughout the world, in more than half of these countries with permanent bases.
So we are confronted with a superpower which does not allow any other law but its own, on its military forces or its civilian personnel.
As Commissioner Patten has just stated, grumbling against the United States is no substitute for a European foreign policy.
The Council is working on a compromise.
After all, as the Romans said in their day: summa ius, summa iniura, the greatest justice is the greatest injustice.
Only in a politically calm climate can the Court develop more legitimacy and, one may hope, persuade countries such as the US to gradually leave behind their objections to this Court.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many people have described the International Criminal Court Statute as the most important international document since the United Nations Charter.
Of course, it is right to concern ourselves with the issue of the United States, with its attempt to obtain exemption and, in particular, a sort of immunity for its citizens with a diplomatic offensive, but I want to stress here that the European Union must direct its greatest endeavours - and the action plan endorsed by the Council and the Commission's work are important in this respect - towards ensuring that the Court has that universal jurisdiction which will guarantee its authority and status and which will also, indeed, show those who are openly against it like the US administration that, maybe one day, under another administration, their country might change direction.
This is important: it is important that the Council adopts a position which gives due consideration to the importance of preserving the Statute in its entirety, that, should a compromise be reached with the United States, it takes into account the question of non-reciprocity - the need for guilty citizens or, at any rate, citizens who have been accused of a crime, to be tried before the US Courts in any case - and, most importantly, that it takes into account the fact that any exception must be restricted, where appropriate, to military and civilian staff sent on mission by the United States and must not be extended, as the United States is requesting, to all US citizens indiscriminately, for this would be absolutely unacceptable and intolerable.
Madam President, the International Criminal Court is a major achievement in the improvement of the international rule of law and of respect for human rights.
The European Union is itself an example of a political structure in which the idea of a Community based on the rule of law is paramount.
The resolution is sufficiently clear.
The United States takes on the lion's share of all peace missions.
Europe's criticism would therefore gain more weight if the European Union were to accept a more proportionate share of the operations under the wings of the UN, which still needs to be negotiated, in fact.
What should be principal, is that only an unadulterated clarification of the Court's statute can be offered, particularly as an explanation of the fears that are probably unfounded.
Madam President, the row between Europe and the United States over the International Criminal Court constitutes a threat to the European Member States' common foreign policy.
A few weeks ago, things looked set to end in complete disaster when Italy and Great Britain threatened to conclude bilateral agreements with the US, as a result of which certain countries, including the US, or groups of citizens, including American military, would be permanently excluded from prosecution by the International Criminal Court.
I am referring in this respect to the sound legal advice gained by the European Commission.
Fortunately, the United Kingdom and Italy ultimately did wait for a European consultation, and we in Parliament are now able to give our opinion on this matter in advance.
A divided Europe, in which some Member States want to take advantage of Article 98 to permanently exclude the US or US citizens from prosecution - so including Al Qaeda terrorists with an American passport - damages our ideal of a Europe that contributes to peace, stability and security worldwide.
Madam President, the word Romania has been mentioned several times today already.
Strengthening international law and its instruments is a fitting response to 11 September; this then includes the International Criminal Court, which we have been fighting for years and which is an indispensable instrument.
We call on our American partners and friends to work together with Europe to strengthen international law and the Criminal Court, because otherwise we are providing states in the Arab world, but also China and Russia - I might mention Chechnya and Tibet - with a pretext for ignoring international law on their territory.
That is why Europe needs to speak to the USA in a self-assured manner, but calmly and reasonably and in a spirit of partnership.
The International Criminal Court will act as a brake on dictatorships and a shield against injustice.
The International Criminal Court is, lastly, an essential instrument against impunity, which is encouraged by the immunity demanded by the United States.
Madam President, the United States has a strange idea of international law.
We are all now quite aware that any bilateral agreement providing for tolerance towards the United States or granting its citizens immunity would run counter to the spirit of the Treaty of Rome.
In relation to the ICC, I should like to warn the Council and the Commission against devising a cosmetic compromise in which real immunity for American citizens who have committed war crimes is wrapped up in every conceivable kind of complicated legal hair-splitting.
Madam President, the creation of the International Criminal Court constitutes a step forward for civilisation.
The European Union and its Member States are therefore required to take action to hinder the efforts of the United States of America to strip the ICC of any legitimacy, granting itself a privileged status of immunity by means of illegal bilateral agreements.
The great dilemma facing the international community today is therefore to choose between an order based on law and an order based on the simplistic opposition of the forces of good and evil, in the battle between which the law is seen merely as an unpleasant hindrance.
Mr President, your statement was not as clear as Commissioner Patten's.
I am actually seriously concerned that, in spite of their professed commitment to the International Criminal Court, the EU's Foreign Ministers will after all get cold feet on 30 September and issue provisos that undermine the credibility of the Rome Statute.
I very much hope, however, that on 30 November the EU will say 'no' and that it will not allow itself to be beaten into submission.
Like everybody else I regret the US position, but I have some questions for the Council on the Commission.
Firstly, are not agreements within Article 98 point 2 consistent entirely with the letter and spirit of the ICC Statute?
Secondly, as many countries told the US that rather than reject the ICC outright it should go along the Article 98 point 2 road, is it not difficult to criticise them for doing so?
Madam President, it is crucial that the EU firmly support the International Criminal Court.
Firstly, Article 98 of the Rome Statute on the International Criminal Court cannot be used as the USA proposes.
Madam President, I should like to thank Parliament for its very strong interest in safeguarding and preserving the ICC.
Our view is that, on 30 September, we should see to it that the EU countries work together and are also able to arrive at the same result.
There is no difference at all between the Commission and the Council on this issue.
There is a principle of subsidiarity.
The court must only be involved if the country concerned is unwilling or unable to deal with the matter.
Are not Article 98 agreements in line with the spirit and letter of the Rome Treaty?
The answer is yes.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the other parliamentary groups for supporting our initiative of 8 August for an oral question, following a trip to Latin America to see the effects of the crisis and ascertain the expectations of the Latin-American countries with regard to the European Union.
Secondly, I would like to welcome the compromise resolution in which the European Parliament will show - as I hope it will tomorrow - its unanimous support for a clearly determined direction established by the Commission and the Council.
The question we are asking has three parts.
The third aspect is that we are facing a significant problem with regard to the representation of the European Union in international bodies, which, I admit, is difficult to solve.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the joint resolution on Mercosur - which we support - is a balanced reflection of the European Union's concerns regarding the extremely serious crisis affecting Mercosur and which threatens to affect the Andean Community of Nations.
In order to calm the fears of our Mercosur partners, we must listen to their demands and dot the i's and cross the t's.
Madam President, our group supports this joint resolution which first, as other speakers have said, indicates the particular responsibility of the International Monetary Fund for the suffering of the Argentine people and some of the consequences of this situation.
The truth is that circumstances are not helping much: presidential elections in Brazil in the next few weeks; spectacular devaluation of the real over the past few days, stock market slump in Brazil; contamination in Uruguay; presidential elections and ongoing crisis in Argentina in March; presidential elections, too, in April next year in Paraguay - if they are held, taking into account that, when the delegation was there in July, a state of emergency was declared.
If we look elsewhere on the continent, the scene is no more promising: instability in Venezuela, an extremely delicate situation in Colombia, a spectacular fall in public support for President Toledo in Peru - who is due to visit this House in December - and general unease throughout the region.
The signals given to the Commission with regard to giving EUR 200 million and the increase in the Hilton quota are extremely positive, and I believe we must continue to send these positive signals.
Parliament has asked - and this is an initiative that will not cost another euro - for a regional solidarity fund to be created using the existing budgetary appropriations.
I seem to recall that currently only two Member States have firmly supported this agreement between Argentina and the International Monetary Fund.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise certain points that have already been raised.
The use of preferential commercial mechanisms should also be used in order to promote commerce and economic recovery in the region.
We also believe that in the various references that have been made to international financial institutions and to the International Monetary Fund in particular, the Argentine crisis, once again, shows the need for the European Union to act more directly, with its own voice, to address this type of subject within these bodies.
Madam President, the crisis affecting certain countries in Latin America and, specifically, in Mercosur is clear for all to see.
We must, therefore, devote our full attention to these difficulties, and by 'we' I mean not only Parliament, but also the Council and the Commission.
These countries are facing political, economic and social challenges that require permanent international cooperation underpinned by a spirit of solidarity and mutual respect.
We believe that relations between the European Union and the Mercosur countries are strategic relations, comparable, incidentally, to those that Mercosur is developing with other parts of the world and to which we usually give priority status.
I say this not only in light of the already-mentioned principles of solidarity or of the region's defence of the rule of law and of the economic model based on free initiative and on improving working conditions, but also because of the opportunity that a revitalised and concrete EU-Mercosur partnership would represent for a more balanced political and economic profile of the Union and its Member States in that region of the American continent.
In this context, we ask the Council - in the wake of the recent Madrid Summit - to prioritise cooperation with the Mercosur countries, with this cooperation being translated into practical measures that go beyond rhetorical gestures of solidarity with their peoples.
Strong political signals that reaffirm European Union confidence in that region must be given, ensuring that cooperation policy is based on the principle of association to the benefit of both parties.
I should like to make another observation: we cannot combat the phenomenon of the unilateralism being demonstrated by the United States - visible mainly in its external and defence policy, admittedly - only with the criticism that we have been hearing in certain circles of European thought.
Finally, Mr President, the problems that we are seeing in the region must not affect the course of the negotiations currently taking place between the European Union and Mercosur.
Lastly, we are in no doubt that everyone would gain by taking advantage of the opportunities that these closer ties would normally provide to encourage the rapid recovery of the economies of the Mercosur countries and closer relations with the European Union.
It is nonetheless clear that coordination between the EU Member States in relation to Article 19 of the EU Treaty may be of benefit to their work in these institutions.
With regard to the Member States' efforts to remedy the situation in the Mercosur countries, they are participating fully and actively in the IMF's work to secure stability and sustainable economic growth in the region.
The arrangements made to support Paraguay, Uruguay and, most recently, Brazil have received backing from the EU Member States, and work is being done on securing a strong, sustainable and credible IMF programme for Argentina, as outlined in the Council's conclusions of 21 January 2002.
The parties have not set any deadline for the conclusion of the negotiations, the date's depending therefore upon how the negotiations progress.
Allow me therefore to conclude that the Council is fully alert to the serious crisis in the Mercosur countries, especially Argentina.
We are therefore interested in strengthening relations between the EU and Mercosur and promoting trade, and we also had a meeting with them during the General Assembly in New York last week.
The European Union and the Commission are concerned at the financial turbulence that is affecting the entire Mercosur region.
The turmoil was triggered by the economic and banking crisis in Argentina, which led to spillover effects on other Mercosur countries such as Uruguay and Brazil.
As a result, the social and economic indicators, as the honourable Member indicated, are pointing sharply in the wrong direction; poverty is increasing and GDP has declined in all Mercosur countries.
The European message of support for further integration as one of the responses to the present crisis is confirmed by our strong commitment to intensify and accelerate negotiations for an Association Agreement between the European Union and Mercosur.
The agreement will create improved market access for Mercosur exports to the European Union and it will strengthen Mercosur as a common market.
As Parliament knows, the EU-Mercosur negotiations are highly ambitious and include three pillars: political dialogue, cooperation and a comprehensive trade agenda.
Firstly, on the trade front, the European Union has taken important decisions to increase the allocation of the Hilton Beef Quota for two Mercosur countries: 10 000 additional tonnes to Argentina and, as a first step, 1 000 tonnes to Paraguay.
There has also been coordination of the positions taken by our Member States on the South American crisis by means of Council common positions and public statements on Argentina.
The Mercosur crisis shows that it would desirable for the European Union to speak with a single voice and play a more influential role in international financial matters.
As Parliament knows, the European Commission cannot intervene as such in the definition of the criteria imposed by an international organisation like the IMF - in which, as I have said, European Union Member States are represented - for the grant of loans to certain countries in a crisis situation.
The approval of IMF assistance as such is based on its own criteria and is tied to sustainable economic programmes proposed by the governments of the countries affected by financial or economic problems.
These organisations have different objectives, which explains why the UN Development Programme puts more emphasis on the social component of cooperation.
But above and beyond any discussions on the merits of any of the criteria used by international organisations, we should not lose sight of the fact that the crisis requires fundamental economic reform in the region as a whole.
Finally, the Commission adopted in August a substantial cooperation package in favour of the Mercosur countries covering EUR 200 million for the period 2002-2006.
These programmes will support regional integration, economic reform, social development and poverty alleviation, modernisation of the state and protection of the environment.
Furthermore, an additional EUR 48 million for the period 2002-2006 has been allocated to cooperation with Mercosur as a whole and it is focused on three priority areas: support to the implementation of the Mercosur internal market; support to Mercosur institutionalisation; and support for civil society in Mercosur.
In sum, there is a package of EUR 250 million to be made available in the period 2002-2006 - of which EUR 30 million are planned to be committed in 2002.
I hope this is another sign of our long-term commitment to Mercosur.
The problem in today's liberalised global market is that just as money can go in, so it can just as rapidly go out again.
The only answer to poverty in Latin America is sustainable economic development.
We can only have sustainable economic development when we have sustained investment.
So there is a very strong argument for trying to increase domestic savings ratios in Latin America and for looking at financial flows in the way that Chile did a few years ago and trying to ensure that they become stabilising rather than destabilising factors.
The European Union and each Member State can and must do far more.
Mr Patten, if we look at the Union budget, the budgetary headings allocated to the development of the region of Latin America as a whole do not always confirm what you have just told us.
It is true that Mercosur has regressed, just as Mr Patten said.
The social and economic crises constantly afflicting these countries are preventing economic growth in South America and hindering the implementation of a sustainable development programme because of the frequent economic problems caused by structural instability.
In my view, we need to review the trade agreements we have with these countries and relations between Europe and Mercosur.
We need to renegotiate the external debt and establish a system of equality between the different Mercosur countries in order to protect fundamental human rights and prevent the emergence of socio-cultural problems such as those currently afflicting the continent.
He has described the situation in very clear and very economic terms, and that is that, while the countries of the Far East have in recent years gone from misery - by adapting to the new situation - to a higher standard of living, in the countries of Latin America the standard of living has declined and, in 50 or 60 years, a country such as Argentina has gone from exceeding the European average to being below it.
The problem is cultural and serious.
Anyone who has been to a rich, thriving country like Argentina and seen the desperate demonstrations by people from the entire political spectrum outside the Casa Rosada in Buenos Aires, calling for the resignation of all politicians in all parties, because they will not accept anyone anymore, can see quite clearly that this crisis is not a passing phase; it is democracy and the political system that is undergoing a fundamental crisis.
Madam President, all of this will mean a very considerable effort by Europe to reaffirm, as the resolution quite rightly states, our commitment of solidarity towards Latin America, which is also a commitment to democracy in the world.
Mr President, my report concerns the improvement of fuel quality.
Everyone will surely recall the directive we drafted in the codecision procedure in 1998, which established quality requirements for diesel fuel and petrol for the first time in the European Union and which has had a decisive part to play in reducing emissions of traffic exhaust.
This will not be possible unless we remove the sulphur from diesel and petrol.
Afterwards, Parliament responded by stating that there was every justification for bringing forward this reform so that it was fully implemented in 2008, and the Council in its common position in fact came very close to the opinion of Parliament.
The year 2009 is now our target year, and I think Parliament should accept this date, even though I might perhaps say in this connection that I doubt whether the market will get round to implementing this reform faster than us legislators.
Several Member States have realised that a very effective way to purify fuel is to offer small tax concessions in relation to normal fuel, and this practice, which originated in Scandinavia, in Sweden and Finland, has now spread to very many Member States.
I can assure you all that the latest research on this subject shows that removing the sulphur from fuels used in machinery as well really is worthwhile economically and in terms of the environment and health.
This is not as drastic as, for example, British agricultural producers have made it look, as already now in half the Member States the same diesel fuel is used as that in vehicles on the highway.
Indeed, we are taking into consideration here the fact that at this very moment the Commission is drafting a proposal with regard to fuels used in machinery.
One of the most interesting of all the issues in this report, from the point of view of the various interest groups, has been that concerning the change in the volatility limit for petrol.
However, the question here is that biofuel producers wanted us to alter the vapour pressure of petrol in this proposal so that the use of a biofuel, especially bioethanol, might rapidly increase in the European Union.
In my position as rapporteur, I have tried to look into this responsibly and I have acquired as much useful information on the subject as has been available.
In my opinion, the compromise we now have in this report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is a fairly optimum one.
It grants that if the use of bioethanol increases in the European Union this matter of fuel quality can be examined as a result.
Parliament in the first reading made its contribution with the amendments it tabled to the notion that the switch to fuel containing 10 milligrams per kilogram should be made more swiftly than was originally sketched out.
The Commission would have rather kept to the option contained in the original proposal and the Council common position, which would still have meant the date for diesel fuel would have been confirmed later.
However, in view of the consensus reached on establishing the timetable, the Commission is prepared to be flexible in this and accept Amendment No 2 in its entirety and that part of Amendment No 11 that deals with the review in respect of diesel fuel.
Another question concerns the market coverage of petrol and diesel containing a maximum of 10 milligrams per kilogram between 2005 and 2009.
In this respect the Commission is willing to try and draft guidelines on availability criteria in respect of these types of fuel for the first stage, even though this is now shorter than what was originally planned.
Consequently, the Commission accepts Amendment Nos 4 and 7.
When it is concluded at the end of this year the quality of fuel governed by such norms will be determined and a timetable to make this fuel available set.
Before that happens the Commission cannot accept Amendment Nos 3, 10 and 13.
Consequently, the Commission in principle accepts Amendment No 12.
Of the remaining amendments, the Commission cannot accept Amendment Nos 1, 5, 6, 8 and 9 or that section of Amendment No 11 that concerns matters to be included in the review, as the Commission considers the common position has taken them sufficiently into account.
We entirely agree with her that it is important for citizens to have access as soon as possible to fuels with a low sulphur content.
It is clear that the objective of this directive is one hundred per cent environmental and everybody therefore welcomes it.
Current automobiles can perfectly well use the new fuels but without the intended reduction in CO2 emissions.
In other words, if the balanced availability and production of the new fuels does not take place alongside a renewal of the vehicles in use, there may be a global increase in emissions, and this would imply significant costs.
We therefore support - and I would ask Parliament to support - the possibility of reviewing in 2005 the period for the full introduction of diesel fuel, especially for agricultural tractors and other non-road vehicles, because, although it is desirable for them to use sulphur-free fuel, the truth is that the pace of renewal for these vehicles is much slower and the volume of fuel consumed is relatively small.
But the proposal on biofuels was presented by the Commission after the first reading of this directive on the quality of petrols and we have therefore not had the opportunity to present an ad hoc amendment in this regard for this second reading.
I would therefore ask the Commission and the Council, in application of Articles 9 and 10 of Directive 98/70/EC, to propose new specifications and test methods for biofuels and for fuels used by captive fleets.
This whole report would, in fact, have been redundant if four years ago, during the negotiations with the Council, we had been able to persuade the ministers to consider the figures too.
The Council of Environmental Ministers, however, proved insufficiently flexible.
It is, of course, true that this new fuel will be somewhat more expensive than the old, polluting fuel.
If the problem is that farmers need to pay slightly more, then I, as a member of the Group of the Greens, think that the importance of the issue warrants this.
It is also important for the industry to know at this stage what the exact requirements are without having to wait until 2005.
This directive is very urgent, and it constitutes an important step towards a lower level of air pollution and a better environment.
Before Parliament's first reading of the draft directive, I prepared 14 amendments with the aim of tightening up the requirements on fuel quality.
Most of them were adopted, and I am very happy that, in the common position, the Council accepts the majority of Parliament's proposals from the first reading.
The EU's Auto-Oil Programme, together with this Fuel Directive, will have great significance in reducing the negative environmental effects of vehicle traffic.
Mr President, I am probably going to be the only person here tonight with my position on this particular report.
It will have an adverse effect on our agriculture, our farmers and our fishermen.
I hope it is defeated because then in the longer term you will come back with a proposal that represents the common sense view of everyone in this European Union, and not just those with purist ideals who do not have to face the consequences of imposing their ideals on others.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I wish to begin by thanking the Commissioner and all those who have taken an interest in the report for being here this evening.
Many of the problems apparent in the legislation at first reading have been substantially resolved by the Council at second reading.
Most of the retrospective elements in the proposal at first reading have now been removed and I can broadly support the Commission's proposals at second reading, albeit with a few riders.
The committee supported my recommendations on that and the amendments are up for vote tomorrow.
This directive was introduced under single-market legislation and it is self-evident that if those craft are not intended to be placed on the market, then they cannot affect the single market.
I understand that at some stage the Commission will be coming back with proposals on that.
It needs to be very simple and effective and, above all, free of charge to those who have boats at the moment.
Finally, I should like to tell our German colleagues that a number of amendments - I call them the Bodensee amendments because they are the result of lobbying from the Lake Constance authorities - have been tabled.
Firstly, those tabled to allow Member States to set their own limits in particular local circumstances.
I am not usually against Member States derogating from European regulations, but if we are going to produce a directive whose specific purpose is to permit a single market across Europe and then introduce specific exemptions into the directive, that would defeat the whole point of having it in the first place.
Secondly, I have a particular problem with the so-called Table 1a amendment, again based on the Bodensee limits, but even stricter.
But do not saddle the rest of Europe with unenforceable limits just to solve a particular problem that the German and Austrian authorities might have.
I have looked quite extensively at the limits proposed in that table with boat-users' representatives and representatives from industry, and there are no commercially available engines on the market that meet those limits at the moment.
By all means let the research go ahead, let us look at the issue again in a few years, but please do not try and saddle the rest of Europe with unenforceable limits.
I would strongly recommend the House to vote against those amendments tomorrow.
The Commission's proposal to modify the recreational craft directive aims to avoid fragmentation of the internal market and seeks to integrate environmental concerns.
As such, this proposal provides a good example of the synergy that is needed between environmental and industrial policies for the achievement of sustainable development.
Air and water pollution and engine noise from recreational boating activities have become increasingly sensitive issues.
While exhaust emissions from recreational craft contribute little to the overall pollution of the marine environment, their local effects are nevertheless important.
I therefore welcome in particular Amendment 14 to extend the 3 decibel sound allowance to the scope originally proposed by the Commission.
Amendments 4, 5, 12 and 22 re-introducing the proposals to delete or reduce the provisions on the Regulatory Committee cannot be accepted by the Commission.
Another important topic of debate has been that of the right to adopt more stringent requirements at national level.
The Commission is looking forward to working with Parliament and the Council towards a solution which on the one hand guarantees a high level of environmental protection and on the other hand meets the requirements of the internal market.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and Parliament for their efforts.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we had a three-hour debate on sustainable development.
So what are we doing, we who want to achieve such ambitious targets at international level, here in our own countries in Europe?
Unfortunately, amongst these opponents of advanced technology are also colleagues from groups and countries which are usually in the vanguard of any initiatives to protect water and the environment and cannot go far enough.
That is why we want more stringent requirements for these waters, that is, stricter limit values for recreational craft.
The limit values laid down now will only have to be complied with by boats newly brought onto the market from 2005.
An individual who buys a new recreational craft after 2005 will be able to use it on all waters.
That is why I would urgently request your support for Amendments Nos 1, 11 and 13.
Furthermore, recreational boating is a leisure activity, and people want to spend their time in the most tranquil surroundings possible.
I am therefore in favour of emission limit values being as stringent as possible, but these kinds of artificial limits cannot be imposed.
Certain areas need special protection from noise and other emissions, and this option must exist.
Ever since work began on this directive, and at least since 1966 when Germany and Sweden came up with their proposed legislation, we have seen good developments with regard to the environmental impact from both two-stroke and four-stroke engines.
It is very difficult to measure the actual effects of the proposal.
I have an estimate from Finland that shows that if we implement the proposal put forward by the rapporteur, the carbon monoxide emissions in the country would fall by 1.8% and emissions of hydrocarbons by 4.3%.
The proposal would therefore lead to a slight reduction in hydrocarbons and at the same time produce a considerable reduction in the burden on the boat sector.
I am pleased though that the rapporteur has endorsed my amendments and that we are going to do something about lubricants.
Harmonisation is reasonable and necessary, as some Member States, for example, Germany, Austria and Sweden, have already decided to bring in or plan their own legislation regarding exhaust limits for recreational craft.
Harmonisation is necessary for trade, but it is at least as important to fix exhaust norms at the same minimum level in all Member States.
It is a dubious notion, however, at the very least that different noise and exhaust limits should be applied according to whether a boat is meant for internal waters or the sea.
The report states with regard to vulnerable waters that the authorities in Member States may issue more stringent regulations than what is contained in this directive and that, I believe, is the correct way to proceed.
For Finland these natural features are a source of wealth that we have traditionally taken good care of, and it is therefore unnecessary under this directive to establish more stringent emission limits for our waters than for other areas.
Instead, we should urge the Commission to issue proposals for emission limits common to all waters now being decided to be made more stringent.
In our countries, it is common for the lakes to be sources of drinking water or very sensitive natural areas, for example breeding grounds for birds.
In sensitive lakes, we currently meet the environmental demands through limits on boat traffic, for example boating bans in certain areas during the birds' breeding periods.
In Sweden and Finland, it is also common to sail up lakes in boats that are used for coastal journeys.
This proposal might look good on paper, but in reality the result would be a bad one, and there would be a bad result for the environment.
In the end, this directive does not confer any right to operate recreational craft on all lakes at all times and under all possible conditions; all it does is allow free trade in boats and their licensing and it permits them to be used in authorised areas.
All of us in the European Union value the principle of harmonisation, but only where minimum standards are set so that these technical products can also be used.
As you know, we in Parliament - and in particular in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy - attach the utmost importance to the principle of mutual recognition, and I believe that this directive makes boat licensing possible.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Despite that, I would like to answer the question, if only for the record and because other Members present might be interested in the Commission's answer.
As I stated in our previous discussion, I do not intend to reopen the investigation of issues that the Commission has already studied.
Moreover, I explained at that meeting last year that the Commission would only reconsider its decision not to propose a change to the current EU exhaustion regime if new developments justified that.
I would like to make it clear to Members of this Parliament that the Commission has acted fully in accordance with the commitments I made on 2 October last year.
I should like to add that in July this year, my services sent out questionnaires to over sixty companies and organisations representing many small and medium-sized enterprises, including both parallel traders and trademark holders, who might be at most risk from abusive restrictions on the sale in the Community of trademarked goods.
That report, as promised at our previous meeting, will be transmitted to Parliament by the end of this year.
Commissioner, the committee and indeed Parliament has not raised this matter lightly or for fun, but because we do not believe that the NERA study, on which you are relying, actually provides a solid enough basis on which to make decisions of this kind.
In Germany, for around 100 years from the advent of trademarks we had international exhaustion.
With this system of international exhaustion in place we in Germany achieved the economic miracle, significant growth and much more besides.
Finally there is another question that has arisen since our past discussions on trademark law: what about trade on the Internet?
Once again then we would urgently request the Commission to conduct further investigations into these few points and to inform Parliament of the result, and not to refer to a NERA study which in our view does not address these problems.
A solution of this kind would certainly spell the end of national trade marks which are highly valued by Member States and which are needed by businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, in the frequent cases when a protection throughout EU territory is, in their view, worthless and costly.
More than ever in a context of heightened globalisation, we must affirm the economic importance of the European Union by integrating the single market and attaching more value to our creativity.
Trademark protection is crucial for the European economy and for consumer safety.
I believe that, although the time limit stated in last year's European Parliament resolution has not come to an end, to monitor it and stay informed, to continue the debate, is our obligation as Members of Parliament.
During the debate on the Mayer Report last year, we had the opportunity to witness - as is also happening today, through the previous speakers - the difficulties involved in achieving a broad majority view on this sensitive issue, both in this house and in society.
I believe that the problem is not so much with the trade marks directive but with the interpretation contained in the Silhouette judgment on Article 7 of the trade marks directive.
Before that judgment, there were countries where, either through legislation - as in Sweden - or through case-law - as in Spain - the principle of the international exhaustion of trade marks was permitted, but following that judgment it was clearly prohibited.
I do not agree with this conclusion and, while personal experience is of little worth, I can give endless examples of how products which in other countries or in my own country, when international exhaustion was allowed, could be sold at significantly lower prices, since the Silhouette judgment can only be found on official distribution networks and at considerably higher prices.
In this case we are not talking about the single European market.
We are talking about global markets and about the freedom of consumers to be able to benefit from lower prices for identical goods that are placed on the market, quite legitimately, outside the European Union, and which are then imported.
That market is confined to the European Union.
That is the reason behind exhaustion in the European Union.
There should certainly be a balance between, on the one hand, the interests of the consumer and, on the other hand, the interests of the producer, and the Commission continues to believe that European exhaustion provides for that balance.
The Commission has not changed its mind since we last spoke about this issue 12 months ago.
Because of the policy accepted in Germany on account of the European Union, the changeover was made from international exhaustion to European exhaustion.
Those studies - interesting as they are - showed that there is a great disparity in prices between the different countries belonging to the European Union.
A 40% difference in price means that the internal market is not working as it should, because, if it did, prices should be related to objective costs - costs of transport, distribution, etc.
She has cited the United States and Japan.
The Commission agrees with her view.
As to her question on the Madrid Protocol, I must tell her that this is in the hands of the Council, and the Commission can only wait for the Council to take a positive decision in this area.
I should like to confirm that Parliament will indeed receive that report at the end of December.
The Commission is full of ideas and has an open mind.
As I said a year ago, the problem is more a lack of definitive evidence showing that there is an advantage in opting for international exhaustion over European exhaustion.
With these remarks, I should like to end my response in winding up this debate.
We are nonetheless aware of the fact that the directive is covered by Title IV of the Treaty establishing the European Community and does not apply to Denmark, cf.
