Within this framework of national legislation, therefore, we support respect for the rights of women, their family rights and, more importantly, the rights of children, in accordance with international conventions and protocols.
In particular, as regards women immigrants, we note that there has been a delay in guaranteeing them genuine access to the languages spoken in their host countries, and that is a factor that slows down and hinders integration.
It was in this frame of mind and with this firm belief, that is to say with a firm belief in the value and the role that women can have now and in the future in enabling this world to move towards a solution of peaceful coexistence, that I welcomed the work done by Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, in which consideration is given above all to the fact that women migrants are a somewhat special case.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, I should like sincerely to thank Mrs Kratsa for her commitment and her sense of cooperation.
They are the ones who forge the first links between their families and nationals in terms of society and integration.
Indeed, this report offers many guidelines aimed at putting a stop to the two forms of discrimination - racial and sexual discrimination - that these women often suffer.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really am very grateful to Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou for her wide-ranging report, which we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left fully endorse, and adds a great deal to the information available on the rights of women migrants in the EU.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the excellent work she has done, and in particular on the fact that she has highlighted some important priorities enabling us to ensure that immigration is primarily understood as two-way integration - therefore involving social, linguistic and cultural aspects - that is to say integration based on mutual respect for rights and duties.
This would allow us to pre-empt the problem of alienating immigrants, which leads to frustration and sometimes to violent disturbances, and very often results in a life of poverty. - (SK) The Commission's communication about the demographic future of Europe notes that over the next five decades the working-age population of the Member States will decline dramatically, by an estimated 48 million people.
Even an optimistic scenario involving a resumption of demographic growth and the discovery of new sources of productivity would still leave Europe needing a major inflow of new migrants, estimated at 40 million people.
Those women who are victims of people-trafficking or who are exposed to violence should be given the opportunity of being granted temporary residence permits and have the right to legal aid and access to healthcare and social services, irrespective of whether or not they have a legal right to stay in the country in question. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I concur with Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou's report, and in this regard I would like to point out, in agreement with her, that the implementation in the Union of the directive on family reunification is unsatisfactory and that there is a need to amend the directive with the aim of reducing the time it takes to obtain autonomous status for spouses, almost always wives, and of guaranteeing that spouses' status will be maintained in the event of separation, divorce or widowhood.
I am pleased that Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou deals with these aspects at great length in her excellent report, and I should therefore like to thank her for it. (ES) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and emphasise one consideration.
Otherwise, there is a risk - if I may say so - that the voices of these women may also be subject to a filter operated by the communities in which they reside.
Finally, precisely to help this integration effort, I would like to point out that in Spring 2007 I will be publishing a European manual on integration, which will be issued in all the languages spoken in the countries of the European Union, containing descriptions of cases of successful integration in the cities, provinces and regions where they have been found.
The debate is closed.
