Protection of groundwater against pollution and deterioration (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Klaß on behalf of the Parliament and Council delegation to the Conciliation Committee on the protection of groundwater against pollution (PE-CONS 3658/2006 - C6-8209;0382/2006 -.
Where groundwater is concerned, here in Europe, we alone have the power to secure this precious good for future generations, and in that the precautions we take and the protection of the groundwater ecosystem are of the utmost importance.
The rural development regulation makes it possible for agriculturalists to be compensated for losses of income sustained by them in consequence of constraints imposed on their management of their land in order to protect groundwater.
Member of the Commission. (EL) Mr President, I would like to both congratulate and thank the Parliament delegation that participated in the Conciliation Committee on 17 October.
In particular I would like to thank Mrs Roth-Behrendt, who chaired the Parliament delegation and rapporteur Mrs Klass on their outstanding work and the result they achieved.
Congratulations to Mrs Klaß, the Commission and Council on this water protection law which is of great importance to Europe.
I would like to end by calling on the Members to vote in favour of this report and I hope that the States will implement these measures as soon as possible, with a view to preserving the environment and protecting human health, thereby moving us in the direction of the sustainable Europe that we all want to see.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, my congratulations to the rapporteur Mrs Klaß, the EP delegation chairwoman, Mrs Roth-Behrendt, Commissioner Dimas, the Council and all those who have made it possible for this directive to go through conciliation successfully.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Klaß, Commissioner, that the groundwater directive has not been watered down amounts to a tremendous success, and the proposals now made are a real step in the right direction, although we would, of course, have expected even more.
If this precious resource of ours is to be effectively protected, what we could actually do with is a limit value of less than 25 micrograms per litre.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, the Directive on the protection of groundwater from pollution and deterioration is a necessary document.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Klaβ, for her work.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, I too should like to congratulate Mrs Klaβ warmly on the result achieved.
The limit value laid down for nitrate is 50 mg.
Now six million people suffer from severe skeletal sclerosis and 66 million to a lesser degree from naturally contaminated water.
