1 July 2008, 40 years of Customs Union The next item is a statement from the Commission on celebrations to mark 40 years of Customs Union on 1 July 2008.
Member States' customs authorities have backed this idea.
The fourth is to maintain, develop and enhance cooperation between the customs authorities of the Member States, between customs and other government law enforcement agencies and, furthermore, between customs and the business community.
I will give you some figures to illustrate the workload in 2007: 183 million customs declarations were processed, which means around 5.5 customs declarations every second; 1 545 million tonnes of seaborne cargo and 3 million tonnes of airborne cargo were handled; 43 cases of fake goods were found and seized, which amounted to 79 million counterfeited and pirated articles, and the trend is upwards.
This long-term planning should allow national authorities to forecast their needs for resources, training and equipment so as to permit the developments to be made in a synchronised and harmonised way throughout the 27 Member States.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, on behalf of my group I would like first of all to congratulate the Commissioner on his leadership of the customs function within the Commission.
You will see from the resolution that we have also called upon Member States in particular to declare their support for it and to put the necessary resources behind that very important project.
As he will know, we have taken particular interest in the dossiers, but not only that: just as he has done over the last week, on our missions around the European Union and now further afield, particularly in China recently, we have also regularly been to visit customs authorities to get a sense of their priorities and the problems they are facing on the ground; so we are much engaged with that.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, since we are aware that the general public are increasingly sceptical of the European Union, it is particularly important that we celebrate such symbolic days, and this 40th anniversary of the Customs Union is, of course, a red-letter day.
The work you mentioned that you do with China and other countries outside the European Union is also important to our economy as well as to consumers in the European Union, for we naturally want safe products and secure services that we can develop.
Between 1968 and 2008, customs have served as an example of resourcefulness and adaptability.
Customs need our support in order to engage in realistic discussions.
My last point is that blanket scanning does not seem practical from our perspective in the light of the concept of a single transatlantic market.
We must ensure that our 27 Member States work together more closely: that they liaise, share information and make Europe work better and more smoothly for legitimate business; and that we do crack down on the serious and growing problem of counterfeit and pirated goods entering our market. (PL) Mr President, the Customs Union is a vital part of the internal market of the European Union, which cannot function properly unless common principles are applied to its external boundaries.
We should remember, however, that standards by themselves are not enough if there is no effective monitoring at our borders, and, particularly, if monitoring is not carried out in the same manner at every point in our external boundary.
For the fight against the flow of counterfeit goods into the EU to be effective there has to be improved cooperation between customs authorities and the supervisory authorities in the EU Member States, as well as cooperation with customs authorities in third countries.
We have also enshrined in our legislation the right to dispose of dangerous goods as well as counterfeit goods.
The customs administrations in 27 Member States have to work as a single administration.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 19 June 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) , in writing. - There are many reasons to mark the 40th anniversary of the Customs Union.
