Preparation of the European Council (Brussels, 13-14 December 2007) (debate) As the next item we have the Council and Commission statements on preparations for the meeting of the European Council in Brussels on 13 and 14 December 2007.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming European Council will first note with satisfaction the signing of the Lisbon Treaty, which is to take place in the Portuguese capital tomorrow, and the proclamation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which will take place here today in a little while.
It will also call for the process of ratification of the Lisbon Treaty to be concluded swiftly so that the Treaty can enter into force on 1 January 2009.
The Lisbon Treaty, as I have said, will provide the Union with a stable and lasting institutional framework that will allow it to fully concentrate on the political challenges ahead, including globalisation and climate change, as clearly underlined at the informal meeting of Heads of State or Government on 19 April.
The Declaration will make it clear that, in view of the global challenges that confront us, the European Union has both an opportunity and a responsibility to act.
Finally, the European Union will help to ensure that globalisation is a source of opportunity rather than a threat and that it contributes to the prosperity of the individual.
On economic, social and environmental issues, the European Council will review the work that has been done in the relevant areas with a view to the preparation of the next cycle of the Renewed Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs, to be approved at the European Council in Spring 2008.
The progress achieved in the discussions on the third internal market package for gas and electricity and the debate on the Strategic Energy Technology Plan will also be noted.
The European Council will stress the importance of the various summits held in the past six months, in particular the summits with Brazil and Africa.
We believe that under future presidencies it will continue to proceed in the direction of a Europe of high growth, social prosperity and sustainable development, strengthening its role in global terms and in its relations with its partners at bilateral and also at multilateral level.
Thank you very much, Mr President. (Applause) President of the Commission. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the last European Council in Lisbon in October we were able not only to reach political agreement on a new Treaty but also to launch a debate at Head of State or Government level on Europe's interest and the best way to promote that interest in the era of globalisation.
I think it is important to stress the link between these two facts.
Europe is solving its institutional problems but it is doing so primarily because it takes the interests of its citizens into account and also because it seeks to project its interests and values at global level.
It signals 27 States' agreement on a Treaty and it marks their acceptance of a common commitment to Europe.
Similarly, the proclamation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights by the President of the Council, the President of the European Parliament and the President of the Commission, which will take place in this House in a few hours' time, is proof positive that the European Union intends to keep the rights of citizens at the heart of its activities.
On Friday, the European Council will give us another opportunity to show a European Union that is seeking to define its position in the light of globalisation.
The truth of the matter is that what we are consolidating today is simply the external dimension of the Lisbon Strategy, essentially the idea that Europe's response to globalisation must be pro-active and confident, not negative and passive.
The Lisbon Strategy has given Europe a common, pragmatic economic agenda, fully respecting national differences.
Today we are well placed to continue the internal reforms, to reinforce our ability to compete at global level and, at the same time, to maintain our values of economic and social cohesion and solidarity.
Today, we are well placed to pursue European interests in the partnerships and in the relations with our allies and the world's other great powers.
Two weeks ago, together with the President of the European Council, I was in China and India for the summits between the European Union and these two emerging powers.
I believe that the rise of the powers of Asia on one hand and the awareness about the climate change challenge on the other are, in fact, two very important driving forces for the European Union, because they show us that there is a challenge called globalisation and that there is also an opportunity to grasp.
We need to promote our interests and to promote our values in the new global order that is emerging.
The goal of our document presented to this Council is to spark debate, first at the European Council, but also in European societies, including, of course, this Parliament, and launch a process leading to a comprehensive policy.
Tomorrow in Lisbon, 27 signatures on the Reform Treaty will confirm our shared destiny in a European 21st century based on our common values, our prosperity, security and solidarity.
The Charter embodies our sharing of values and, at the same time, reflects a consensus on our unity in diversity.
I hope that both the spirit and the letter of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights will apply across the widest possible area of Europe, for this Charter truly does enshrine our individual identification with the European Union and our connection to a European Community of shared values.
My group is ready to contribute both in the legislative process and in bringing forward new ideas.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Commission rightly referred to one of the core challenges of the present time, namely the question of how we should organise home-affairs policy in Europe on the basis of the Treaty that is to be signed tomorrow, on the basis of the new legal structures of the European Union.
The step we are now taking in relaunching the integration process on the basis of a new Treaty is therefore a first step that must be followed by more, by which I mean closer integration in other areas, including those of the common home-affairs policy, the common security policy and the common justice policy.
Some Members, however, are nicer than others, Mr Cohn-Bendit. (Laughter) The setting will be marvellous, as always.
It is true that the Lisbon Treaty does not satisfy all our wishes, but it is better than destroying Europe by constantly opposing integration. (Applause) And those who rejected the draft Constitutional Treaty because they believed it was short on social policy and needed a stronger social element will not find that extra element in this new Treaty, but the proclamation of the Charter of Human Rights and its integration into the Treaty have made it possible to realise a number of fundamental social rights.
One thing, however, is quite clear: this Treaty can only be a stepping stone.
Nevertheless, it is a step that must be taken now in any event.
The European Council should also begin to take some firm decisions on the size and shape of the ESDP mission to Kosovo as a signal of its intention.
And, further to what Mr Schulz said about the dangers of a negative coming from Europe, it behoves me, as a representative from Ireland, speaking at this round of the debate on the future of Lisbon, to point out a number of home truths.
Firstly, to congratulate all those who have been involved in bringing about the final agreement on the Lisbon Treaty.
But that is only the written document, and we ask ourselves - and often in this Parliament we ask ourselves - what does Europe want to see?
Thirdly, and most importantly of all, the whole issue with regard to the kind of development of a European vision that we want to see around the world as is now being played out in Bali at the Climate Change Conference, as will be played out in the future at some other conferences in New York in the coming months, and, most importantly, that we have to tell our citizens and inform them properly of what comes before them.
He said 'globalisation' 87 times and 'challenges' 82 times, so it must be true.
That is unusual, even for the weddings you frequent, Martin.
We in the European Union must now be resolute in showing how we can act, not just how we can talk.
We must develop an Agenda 2020 with a view to bolstering the rule of law in that region, and that agenda must be developed together with Kosovo, with Serbia and with Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Then we shall see whether the 27 will be able not only to wed their brides but also to bring difficult children into the family so that peace can finally advance in that region.
Yesterday's New York Times wrote something that we have all been saying for the last 30 years, namely that anyone who uses nuclear power for civilian purposes will ultimately use it for military purposes too if there is no alternative.
Yesterday the Danish Parliament refused a referendum on a Treaty they have not read.
The IGC has decided that readable versions will only be printed when the Treaty is ratified by all 27 Member States.
All negotiations in the IGC and the linguistic lawyers' group have been kept absolutely secret so far as many Members in this Parliament are concerned.
Today we will have a pretentious affirmation of a belief in human rights yet, at the same time, the EU elite are preparing to celebrate their greatest stroke of arrogance to date as they make ready to sign the repackaged Constitution without a backward glance towards their people and what they want or what they think.
The 2005 referendums showed Europe to be out of touch, but the lesson learned was not to abandon what the people did not want but to circumvent their opposition by determining this time not to ask them.
So on a day when there is much talk of human rights, I say: Give the people of Europe the basic political and human right to say 'yes' or 'no' to this Constitution, the right to say 'yes' or 'no' in a referendum. (Applause) (PT) President-in-Office, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese Presidency is coming to an end and it has a number of remarkable successes to its credit.
President-in-Office, I wish you every success at the Council meeting on 14 December.
Portugal has always done its best to serve the common interest when it held the Presidency of the Council.
This was the case in 1992 with Prime Minister Cavaco Silva and with João de Deus Pinheiro, then Minister for Foreign Affairs and now a Member of the European Parliament.
It was the case in 2000 with Prime Minister António Guterres, and it is the case today in the third Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the Union.
Allow me, Secretary of State, to draw attention to your personal commitment, the commitment of Minister Luís Amado and Prime Minister Sócrates, and the commitment of all those who have been actively engaged here, in Brussels and in Lisbon, in ensuring the success of the Presidency.
A treaty, however, can only create the right conditions, and the will and vigour to pursue a common foreign and security policy are essential too.
It is quite clear, in my view, that we must abide by the principle that every step which is taken in the coming weeks and months must come from within the region and be taken together with the European Union.
The process can be brought to fruition if the European Union opts for a joint approach.
The decisive factor will not be recognition of Kosovo's independence but energetic representation of EU security policy in Kosovo, and the Portuguese President of the Council must play his part in making that a reality. (Applause) (NL) Mr President, the new Treaty is being signed at last after years of stalemate, but the parties to it must also at last act as the owners, the real leaders of Europe.
It is high time they stopped simply crowing on the national stage about what they have achieved and started actively canvassing support for this Treaty and pushing for its ratification, so that it can come into force on 1 January 2009.
But a mature democracy must not only be vigorous, it must also scrutinise the exercise of power, and it must be responsible.
It must be emphasised that the so-called Reform Treaty is a very high-ranking document, since it leads in fact to restrictions on the sovereignty of the Member States.
Instead of responses designed to improve living conditions and address the problem of poverty which affects more than 80 million people, they present an even more neo-liberal version of the Lisbon Strategy designed to pursue the liberalisation and privatisation of public services.
Yet the focus this week will inevitably be on the signing of the Reform Treaty in Lisbon.
Meanwhile, one person in six - a total of 74 million Europeans - lives below the poverty line as defined in the individual Member States.
The vision that the Commission has just outlined, of a more socially orientated Europe in the 21st century, is conceptually flawless but bereft of any actual legislative initiative.
The so-called 'subprime' lending crisis had its origins in frenetic consumerism in the United States.
To conclude, some people are wearing 'referendum on Europe' tee-shirts: yes to a European referendum, no to national referendums, because referendums bring out all the populism, extremism, nationalism and communism of our Europe. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately there are still patriots in Europe and obviously we shall call for a national referendum.
Let them have the courage to meet the demand for democracy, because Europe itself depends on democracy! (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, we often discuss how to bring the EU closer to the citizens and make it more democratic without acting upon it.
I have the impression that the politicians are either too lazy to explain the new Treaty or - worse still - they are afraid of the citizens.
The politicians do not want to have to explain to the citizens that they will not have 'their' Commissioner in the Commission.
Our discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs in this House allow me to pronounce a very positive view on the new Treaty for a number of reasons.
Most importantly, the new Treaty enhances the budgetary powers of Parliament over EU foreign policy spending, putting the European Parliament on an equal footing with the Council.
In fact, the greatest improvements refer to the European security and defence policy (ESDP), since the Lisbon Treaty provides in particular for a permanent structured cooperation in defence between those Member States with the military capability.
From our point of view, however, the new Treaty also suffers from a few shortcomings: the European Parliament should be consulted on the nomination of the new High Representative and Vice-President of the Commission, not only for the first person to take office on 1 January 2009, but also in the case of the interim appointment afterwards and, obviously, when appointing the whole Commission, including its Vice-President for Foreign Affairs.
To sum up: the Lisbon Treaty constitutes a milestone in the institutional development of the European Union in foreign affairs and, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to warmly welcome its pending signature. (PL) Mr President, three years after the end of the Second World War the United Nations Organisation proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which remains the standard text in this field.
Their prime ministers and ministers of foreign affairs signed it as the second part of the Constitutional Treaty in Rome on 29 October 2004.
The content of the Charter has not changed since 2004.
Secondly, we wanted an EU foreign minister, not as an embellishment but as a genuine mouthpiece of the European Union.
The third point to which we attached particular importance was firm protection of fundamental rights, and for this reason we look forward eagerly to the proclamation of the Charter.
My second point is that we must play our role in international politics responsibly.
People want the European Union to have a strong global role.
The responsibility is ours. (PL) Mr President, Europe is not only an agreement among elites.
The signing of the Lisbon Treaty and the EU-Africa summit will take their place as landmarks in European history.
The first is about ratification of the forthcoming treaty.
The fact of abandoning the draft Constitution and replacing it by an ordinary treaty means there is now no impediment in any of the Member States - except Ireland - to ratification by a vote in parliament.
Sixteen years and 300 000 deaths have intervened and it is time for the EU countries to show they have learned the lessons of that sad past.
The Member States did not want to include it in the Treaty, but it is a Charter and has a constitutional status.
I think we should remember the efforts made by many men and women over the years in the European Parliament in order to achieve that Charter.
I think we ought to remember the woman who embodies the tragedy and the power to overcome of 20th century Europe, Simone Weil, not to mention men such as Altiero Spinelli, Fernand Herman and many others who worked for so many years so that, finally, we could have a declaration of rights which would express our identity.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to add another important comment, which is that the Charter and the Lisbon Treaty strengthen the Union as a supranational democracy of States and citizens, and that is the first response in an era of political globalisation.
We expect ratification to be effected quickly in all Member States and the result of the 2009 elections to the European Parliament to be taken into account in the appointment of office-holders pursuant to the new Treaty.
It is our unequivocal view that the future of Kosovo and Serbia lies in the European Union and that we must make every effort to ensure that people's desire to be free and to live in peace with each other is satisfied.
Implement the Galileo decision, which could only be taken because the European Union shouldered its financial responsibility. (PT) Mr President, President of the Council, the Portuguese Presidency is leaving a legacy that is highly stimulating but also fraught with responsibilities.
The signing of the Lisbon Treaty tomorrow, the solemn ratification of the Charter of Fundamental Rights by the three institutions of the European Union in a few minutes' time, the establishment of a strategic partnership with Brazil without detriment to the European Union's special relations with Mercosur, the resumption of regular strategic summits with Africa, and lastly the boost given to the Lisbon Strategy and many matters of decisive importance for the future of Europe: these are notable achievements but they will only be of use if they produce the policies and achieve the objectives that are essential to make Europe stronger, more cohesive, more united and more decisive for world stability.
Economic growth: the European Council must not become complacent.
I should like to explain briefly the Portuguese Presidency's position on this vital issue.
There were two main objectives, the objective of trying to explore certain aspects of the Ahtisaari plan that could and should be explored.
On the other hand, we are sure, we and the European Union, that we have done all that we could to make it possible for an agreed solution to be reached on the future of Kosovo.
We had 120 days to do it.
But if it proves impossible at United Nations level for the members of the Security Council to agree on a solution that will determine the future status of Kosovo, we have no doubt that the international community and the European Union in particular will itself have to take decisions which we all know will be complex and perhaps difficult ones.
Three observations in this connection are of fundamental concern to the Portuguese Presidency and will be of fundamental concern to Portugal as a Member State of the European Union after 1 January.
Unity must therefore be our watchword.
The parties must know that their natural vocation is to be in Europe.
Let us hope that the European Union, in solving the difficult question of Kosovo - and, let us have no illusions, this is a complex and a difficult question - we have no alternative, as I say, that the European Union, in all circumstances and despite any differences there may be on particular issues, must maintain its unity.
Finally, Mr President, I hope you will forgive and I am sure you will understand if I end on a personal note: this is the last time I shall attend a debate in the European Parliament as the representative of the Portuguese Presidency.
I have learned with you and I have learned through you how important this Parliament is in strengthening democracy in our Union and also, naturally, in strengthening the legality of the decisions that we take here with a view, obviously, to creating a freer and more prosperous Union for the citizens of Europe.
I will end with the English expression: "I will miss you all" or, in Portuguese: "Já sinto saudades”.
Obrigado, Mr President-in-Office.
We shall see each other again in Lisbon tomorrow, of course, and next week you will be here again to accompany the President of the Council, José Sócrates, but since this was your last speech here in plenary, I should like to express our very sincere thanks to you and to reaffirm that our cooperation with you has been a great pleasure and, above all, a great success.
Thank you, Manuel Lobo Antunes.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you very much for this wide-ranging debate, which I think will provide valuable input to the meeting in Lisbon and to the summit in Brussels.
I would like to focus on a few areas that have been raised this morning, starting with the Treaty of Lisbon and the Charter.
I would also like to use this opportunity to again thank the Parliament representatives for the important role that they have played in allowing the Union to solve its institutional difficulties.
The second point I would like to comment on is the 'Reflection Group', because I think we must make sure that it focuses on the policy challenges of the future and not mainly on the institutions.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) Mr President, preparations for the EU's December summit in Brussels are taking place in a better atmosphere than was expected.
That is obviously due to the approval of the Reform Treaty and the prospect of its untroubled adoption in Lisbon.
in writing. - (RO) The signing of the new Treaty in the European Council of 13-14 December achieves a reform of the European institutions but, mainly, it increases the European citizens' power to state their opinion on the European legislation.
The Treaty also offers the Union the possibility to promote the fight against climate changes at an international level and guarantees adequate social protection to all its citizens.
The adoption of the new Treaty requires unanimity in the Council and its ratification by all signatory States by June 2009.
