The work of the Commission on the basis of the Transport Council's mandate of 22 March 2007, to which your resolution gives invaluable support, is progressing satisfactorily.
The result of this work will be the subject of a communication to Parliament and to the Council, which the Commission intends to adopt on 10 May 2007, that is, a month before the next Transport Council in June 2007.
This communication will respond to all the demands made by the Council of 22 March 2007 and by Parliament in the resolution that you are going to adopt.
The European Space Agency will complete the operational readiness review of this system by March 2008.
Concerning the funding for the European satellite navigation programmes, you know that the Commission proposed from July 2004 a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council.
The Council reached a partial general approach on this proposal on 21 April 2005.
Parliament also adopted a positive opinion at first reading on 5 September 2005.
International agreements concerning the Galileo programme are negotiated on the basis of Article 300 of the Treaty.
More than 70 contributions have been received, from a wide range of actors.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Mr Vice-President, thank you for the detailed information.
I can assure you, Mr Vice-President, that you will have the support of the European Parliament in the resolution of the most difficult questions if a transparent, clear and feasible timetable and affordable financing are finally worked out, either by means of negotiation or by an alternative solution.
I very much welcome the 10 May deadline and the insistence that substantial, immediate progress be made by then on the heads of terms.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Mr President, in its financial perspective, the European Union is making a significant effort to launch this Galileo programme.
In this case it would be much better if it did not go up in the first place. (PL) Mr President, the GALILEO satellite navigation system will secure the European Union's place in global civilisation in the coming century.
The European Parliament is concerned by the delays in implementing the GALILEO project and demands that the Commission submit a plan which will guarantee that the European Union's own satellite navigation will actually take off.
The European Parliament must support the Commission in its drive to get GALILEO built in an alternative way by a group of contractors different to the consortium set up in 2005.
We have to remember that Europe may be overtaken by the Russian GLONASS or the Chinese BEIDOU system.
The debate is closed.
