Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 4 July 2002.
In recent weeks in Central Europe, particularly in upper and lower Austria, eastern Germany and parts of the Czech Republic, entire areas have been ravaged by floods of unprecedented and catastrophic proportions.
As a mark of respect for those who died, I ask you to rise in a minute's silence. (The House rose and observed a minute's silence) On Sunday, 4 August, Cecilio Gallego Alaria and a six-year-old girl were killed by a car bomb which had been placed near a bus stop in the Spanish town of Santa Pola in Alicante.
On 1 August David Caldwell was killed in an explosion in Derry in Northern Ireland.
On my own behalf and that of the House, I strongly condemn these acts of terrorism and express my deepest condolences to the victims' families, and our deepest sympathy for those affected by terrorist attacks.
The following change has been proposed: Wednesday: I have received a proposal from the Verts/ALE Group to add to the agenda of Wednesday, 4 September a special debate on the International Criminal Court.
That is why neither I nor my group feel that a single closed debate on a motion - on 24 September next - will be sufficient.
On Wednesday, we will be having a truly wide-ranging and very serious debate on Iraq and other important issues, and our group has made very careful preparation for this not only as regards speaking time but also as regards what is to be said.
We therefore propose that it is not this week that we should have the debate on the International Criminal Court, but during the second September part-session.
Mr President, I believe we are all in favour of the International Criminal Court.
We are dealing with an issue of procedure and my Group is in favour of a debate with a resolution in the second September part-session.
My proposal is as follows: the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy should include this issue in its next meeting, with an express request to the Commission to communicate the opinion, which appears to exist, on the possible consequences for a Member State of altering its position in relation to a common position adopted, since there is a common position on this point, and, apparently, that represents a violation of the Treaties.
In a common position, we have all - the Member States and Parliament - given our word.
Mr President, Mr Cohn-Bendit raises a very important point because this is an issue on which decisions may well be made before our September II part-session.
At the same time, it was the view of the Conference of Presidents last week - and I believe it would be the view of this House - that we need to have a full debate on the current situation regarding a possible armed attack on Iraq.
The debate in Bucharest will therefore be a very lively one.
That is why, on behalf of my group, I call upon the Council, the Commission and Parliament to adopt a very clear position on this change of tactic by the Sharon government, which, in my view, will incite hatred and the desire for revenge when there is a vital need for de-escalation, dialogue and peace.
It concerns the current shipment of MOX pellets that is being returned from Japan to Sellafield and is due to enter the Irish Sea some time next week.
This is causing concern to people in Ireland because of the risk of accident and the very real risk of terrorist attack on these ships.
Mr President, on 8 August, two Turkish Cypriot journalists from what used to be the 'Europa' and is now the 'Africa' newspaper, its editor Sener Levent and Mentuh Ener, were sentenced to six months in prison by an illegal court in occupied Cyprus, accused of allegedly insulting Mr Denktash.
We condemn this action outright and ask you to bring your influence to bear in securing the immediate release of these two journalists.
During the summer, it has been noticeable that tensions have risen regarding September 11 or Iraq or what is happening in regard to Israel/Palestine.
Mr President, I would like to draw your attention and the attention of the House as a whole to another case of severe violation of the most basic human rights, of violation, above all, of the freedom to choose where to live.
Mr President, today is an important anniversary for the Vietnam war, not what is usually referred to as the Vietnam War but the war which is taking place day after day in Vietnam against democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms, the war being waged against the citizens of Vietnam, against the Buddhist monks, against the leaders of movements opposed to the Vietnamese regime.
Mr President, I should like to ask the House for support for your and this House's intervention in the case of the sentence of death by stoning imposed in various cases by a court in northern Nigeria.
This is both for so-called criminal offences and apparently, in the case of Amina Lawal, for the offence of bearing a child.
I am sure we are all agreed that whatever the case and merits of the case it is a dreadful death in any circumstances, but particularly in the case of a mother whose only crime is to bear a child.
Mr President, firstly I would like to join this House in its expression of sympathy for the victims of Santa Pola and Derry.
Mr President, in my country there is currently a judicial process under way to ban Batasuna, with the sole objective of protecting democracy and the system of freedoms and, in this regard, I am grateful for your institutional words of support, because the truth is that there are hundreds of pieces of evidence linking ETA with Batasuna and it is not acceptable that public subsidies are being used to finance terror.
The real difficulty is that we have no forum, as Members of this democratically elected assembly, where we can discuss our concerns and fears, be they real or perceived, and agree or disagree amongst ourselves in a democratic way on this issue.
Could I appeal to you, Mr President, to consider, when Commissioner Palacio brings forward her nuclear package this autumn, that the very least that should be afforded to us in this Parliament and in national parliaments is the right of communication and consultation and full discussion on these matters, so that all our views for and against such issues can be properly aired.
It is a matter which concerns my country, but I would first like briefly to make something clear in view of what some of the Members representing Spanish parties have said.
Mr President, just two words about what my Spanish colleagues said about me.
Secondly, regarding the two hundred thousand euros that were apparently destined for ETA; here in this House there are responsible persons who are perfectly aware of where this money is at the moment and the origin of these two hundred thousand euros.
What he has said puts me in danger.
People like him live comfortably in the Basque Country and I want them to carry on living comfortably, but what he has said puts my life and the lives of many people like me in danger.
And this is a perfect illustration of the situation we are living in in our country.
Mr President, we have always had a point of reference in our political action - the ideal of freedom - and there is a condition linked to this ideal of freedom, namely that the ideal of freedom is totally and unequivocally incompatible with the use of violence.
Any form of self-determination which is based on or employs violence in any way, even indirectly, must be rejected in the initiatives and positions we adopt.
The next item is the report (A5-0261/2002) by Dorette Corbey, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on amending Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste (COM(2001) 729 - C5-0664/2001 - 2001/0291(COD)).
Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste resulted in a reduction of the environmental effects associated with packaging and packaging waste, particularly because more waste was collected, recycled and recovered.
No Member State has failed to achieve the minimum targets for recycling for 2001 as early as 1998.
This proposal is intended to lay down new targets for recycling and for recovery as a whole, significantly higher than those envisaged in the current version of the Packaging Directive.
The benefits to the environment are, in addition, estimated at around EUR 350 million.
There are, however, substantial differences between one type of packaging material and another, both as regards the environmental benefits and also the cost of recycling.
It is for this reason that the Commission proposal not only specifies overall targets for recovery and recycling, but also targets differentiated according to the materials concerned.
I would like to add that I am presenting this proposal in place of my fellow Commissioner Mrs Wallström, who is spending today at the Johannesburg Summit on sustainable development.
We are sorting and collecting our waste.
This is sometimes due to laxity, but often also due to real problems, such as a lack of waste disposal facilities.
Secondly, the environmental yield is not always obvious.
I would thank all my fellow MEPs and the shadow rapporteurs, in particular, for their contributions.
However, the waste issues and recycling capacity are different in each country, and thus the values accorded should differ in line with this.
My third point concerns recycling.
I consider the 65% proposed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy to be a good compromise for first reading.
There has been a great deal of debate about whether material-specific targets should be prescribed or not.
Member States must promote re-use if this is more beneficial to the environment.
The concept of sustainable development must be given a practical dimension.
We must clear up our own mess instead of exporting it to developing countries.
We have done this before in the directive on electronic waste and the directive on end-of-life vehicles.
Producers must also innovate in terms of environmental quality and their packaging.
The new targets must be seen as ambitious, but I do believe that they are justified, from the point of view of industrial policy, in terms of their objective, which serves the European Union's environmental policy objectives.
We are debating a Directive which must have a sufficient degree of flexibility in order to allow national laws to be brought into line with it and furthermore we cannot oblige consumers to separate the waste from the containers in order to facilitate collection.
The recovery and recycling targets proposed by the Commission for 2006 are particularly ambitious for the majority of Member States and we must acknowledge that certain Member States will not be able to achieve them.
We are opposed, however, to the idea of specific objectives for each material, since they would lead to a distortion in competition between materials and reduce the consumer's scope for choice.
Under the current Directive, with 15%, objectives of 70 or 80% for recycling are being achieved in certain countries, but nevertheless, this is going to promote free competition between materials within a free market.
I personally believe - and I am not now speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group - that the broad objectives for recovery and recycling must be set at local level by the competent authorities, who have the best knowledge of their capacities, their infrastructures and the habits of their consumers.
The Commission proposes that the objectives be fulfilled by June 2006, and our proposal is that that date be put back to 31 December 2006, because it is more practical to discuss and take stock by calendar years and because, furthermore, it is a very tight deadline.
Moreover, the Member States are going to have little time to bring their legislation into line in view of the codecision procedure, which is going to increase the time it takes to adopt the Directive.
We also believe that a prevention objective is not necessary, because, for environmental and economic reasons, such as the payment of the 'Green point', which exists in certain countries such as my own, industry is already trying to reduce as far as possible the amount of material used in the manufacture of packaging.
We should bear in mind that the volume of packaging on the market also depends on the quantity of products sold, not just on the materials used in their manufacture.
This is also one of the most important environmental policy objectives of the summit currently being held in Johannesburg.
Indeed, this directive on packaging waste is just part of this problematic issue, but it is now a matter of debate for us here, and we should also bear in mind this higher goal whilst considering it.
For this reason, in any revision of the 1994 directive ambitious targets must be set, as the rapporteur, Mrs Corbey, has also stated.
For example, in Finland the re-use of soft drinks and beer bottles works excellently, and must therefore be encouraged, but in a way that allows everyone to be involved in this system openly.
For there to be genuine competition between materials, in addition to the targets associated with materials I think there should also be a general aim where competition would be based on bringing more packaging materials that fulfil environmental criteria onto the market.
The Commission's proposal for a general level of recycling regarding packaging waste is an ambitious aim, but it is attainable on certain conditions.
Material-specific targets within the EU accord a different status to each material, but Member States are also in an unequal position if their practices regarding packaging and, as a consequence, the proportion of different packaging materials they use varies greatly from one to another.
I agree with the Commissioner that the 1994 Directive has certain positive aspects, in that, to a greater or lesser extent, all the Member States distribute waste at source and recover, recycle and re-use waste.
There are perhaps two issues which are the most controversial amongst the various groups: the first is the levels of concentration of lead, cadmium, mercury and chromium present in packaging and the second is the particular percentage of recycling and recovery for each of the materials proposed.
I believe that in the end it may be necessary to deal with the strictest aspects of these two issues, in order to be able to achieve a possible conciliation with a high level in the Directive.
Mr President, after a delay of one year the European Commission's proposal to amend the packaging and packaging waste directive is finally before us.
I very much welcome the improvements made and hope that they will help in our efforts to reduce waste within the European Union.
It is extremely regrettable, however, that Member State governments are so unwilling to put the environment before big business, in particular in light of the rhetoric on sustainable development we have heard from Johannesburg over the past week.
The Commission's proposal is already one year behind schedule and according to the objectives should be postponed by one year but no more.
I also welcome the PPE Group's amendment of a 2006 deadline, which would be better.
Secondly, prevention and reuse of packaging waste should be increased to reduce its environmental impact.
According to waste management strategy, recycling is environmentally more beneficial than recovery and, in my opinion, 'recovery' is just another word for incineration - a polluting activity with significant environmental and health impacts.
Fourthly, there should be no maximum targets for recycling as it is environmentally beneficial to promote a shift to materials which are recyclable and more ambitious minimum targets should be achieved.
At least some of the packaging waste currently exported from the EU is processed in operations that are harmful to human health and the environment, or landfilled instead of recycled, which should not be encouraged.
Heavy metals should not be deliberately used in packaging after 2006 and there is no reason to exempt recycled materials from restrictions in relation to heavy metals.
Current recycling rates of PVC packaging are less than 3% in the EU and all of it is down-cycling, which produces inferior quality with no environmental or economic benefits.
In 1997, 58 million tonnes of packaging waste was produced.
In 1998 that increased to 60 million tonnes, equivalent to 2 kgs per day for a four-person family.
Finland and Sweden have 100 kgs per person per year; France and Italy, which are very similar countries, have 200 kgs per person per year.
There are no figures for countries like Portugal, Ireland and Greece, which want a derogation.
What is missing are more effective rules for the prevention of waste, the re-use of packaging material and producer responsibility.
Radical changes in these areas are absolutely crucial.
This is why the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy are a good start.
The proposal amended by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy that is before us, is, in our view, a first step in the right direction.
In France, manufacturers have introduced a policy of reducing packaging at source by means of the procedure for certifying conformity with standard 13428 on prevention.
The amendments which I tabled in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy sought to extend this procedure to all the Member States.
I would draw the attention of my colleagues to the need to remove the change introduced by Amendment No 16 to Article 4(1)(a), for an arbitrary limit on the quantity of packaging does not take into account either economic growth or sociological development.
It is through respect for standard CEN EN 13428 on prevention that the volume of packaging, its global tonnage, will be decreased, as is shown by the French example.
I would like to draw your attention once again to the dangers of adopting an environmental indicator for packaging, as proposed by the change introduced by Amendment No 16 to Article 4(3)(a).
Lastly, on the subject of re-use, this form of recycling should not be encouraged systematically, because the environmental impact of an item of re-usable packaging is not necessarily less harmful than that of an item of disposable packaging.
A number of studies have confirmed this, particularly in the bottled drinks sector, and I will not go into the complaints lodged by the Commission against certain Member States who generated trade distortions by making the return system mandatory.
I therefore call upon the Members to vote against Amendment No 17.
The solution to the problem facing us is to make this product subject to environmental requirements and to view it in the context of its entire life cycle.
I can therefore only support this step for, in view of the difficulties encountered in the field with regard to the treatment of waste, particularly the treatment of packaging waste, it would seem premature to want to undertake a more in-depth review of the text.
There is only one essential demand Parliament must make in this matter, and that is for realism, for our goal is to facilitate the treatment of packaging waste as far as we can and, even before packaging reaches the market, to provide for waste packaging which does the least possible harm to our environment.
Recycling is often problematic and it is therefore necessary to apply the principle of prevention and to limit the volume of packaging.
Our legislation must, quite simply, integrate prevention, but it also needs to be simpler and more flexible.
I feel a special responsibility to ensure that we do not forget that and ensure that this directive continues to develop in a positive way for the environment.
We must ensure that it is acceptable not just to those countries that are already and fully implementing the packaging directive but also to those that will have to implement it in coming times.
Finally, I would say that when we sit down today, I hope we will perhaps feel satisfied and happy and have a warm glow inside us, but also feel that we have done something not just for our egos but for the environment.
I am also very concerned about monopolies and cartels in the paper industry, particularly in Ireland.
All the Member States need in future to work together, in an active and constructive way, on avoiding packaging waste and on systematically collecting and recycling it.
The best possible systems are needed to deal with the approximately 58 million tonnes of packaging waste that the European Union produces every year.
Amendment No 43 provides for the recovery of materials from plastics, facilitating the use of polluted waste plastics to produce plastics as good as new.
This process makes perfect sense in both ecological and economic terms and has proved its technical worth on a large scale.
In Germany, for example, it has already been used to recover raw materials from over 1.8 million tonnes of waste plastic.
We need this Directive in order to establish a working system for managing packaging waste in all the Member States of the European Union.
That is why a compulsory reduction in packaging for goods should be agreed to.
An environmental indicator to measure packaging has certain merits, but so far no one has managed to explain to me exactly how this would work and I therefore have reservations about writing into European law a system that does not yet exist.
The consultants engaged to assist the Commission in setting the revised targets, RDC-Environment and Pira International, assumed a number of underlying principles which do not apply to some Member States, such as Greece, Portugal and Ireland.
Hence my amendment, for which I urge support, for a 2011 timetable deadline for Greece, Portugal and Ireland.
I believe that the EU environment ministers appear to have already reached a 'common orientation' on this Directive in June 2002.
On 4 March 2002, our environment minister introduced a plastic bag tax in Ireland, 15% per bag.
The turnaround has been dramatic and there have been few complaints.
The maximum rate is therefore meant to prevent the four-speed Europe in this area from drifting even further apart, with even greater distortions of competition being the consequence.
Since 1994, the current quotas have been achieved only by Austria, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Denmark, although one has to bear in mind that the Netherlands and Denmark have done so only because they have fully-developed and highly economical systems of waste incineration, whereas Belgium and Germany have managed it through the use of the sort of recovery processes that environmental considerations make less than desirable and which will, indeed, cease to be authorised as a result of a change in definition contained in the proposal for a Directive.
The Commission proposes that, in addition, the following minimum targets for the recovery of materials contained in packaging waste should be achieved: 60% by weight for glass, 65% by weight for paper, and so on.
By virtue of its legislative nature the directive should still allow for flexibility on the part of Member States in its implementation.
The criterion must therefore be genuine conservation of the environment.
They concern really quite small details, but are the sort of thing this directive seems to need for it not to become too cumbersome.
The volume of waste should be de-coupled from economic growth, as my colleague Mrs Myller quite rightly stated here.
I would like to comment on the most important of the amendments that have been dealt with and which are due to be voted on tomorrow.
We see these objectives, specific to certain materials, as also being necessary in terms of legislative clarity and of security of investment for firms offering recycling services.
As regards the maximum targets, the proposed deletion of the maximum target for recycling can result in distortions of the internal market if more material is collected than is capable of being recycled.
This can lead to increasing problems in the sale of collected materials, especially in the countries that have introduced their own recycling programmes only at a late stage.
However, this issue merits further consideration in terms of the criteria by which prevention should be guided, whether these should be the environmental effects or the weight involved.
The Commission is unable to endorse the introduction of 10% reduction as a quantitative prevention target, as it is not clear how this objective is to be implemented and what the costs and benefits might be.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Over the past 50 years, world trade has increased 19-fold.
There are 200 chairmen of transnational corporations whose combined turnover is bigger than the combined GNPs of presidents and finance ministers of 182 countries, encompassing probably the largest population groups in the world.
We must create a framework in which the European Parliament, members of national parliaments and the directors of these companies can come together in a forum regularly, twice a year, with the rotating presidency of the EU to discuss matters of development and sustainability, not once in a blue moon as in Johannesburg or in Rio, but in a continuous dialogue.
As part of this, I have proposed in my report that they set up something called an ethical investment committee on the lines of remuneration committees and other committees in boards of directors.
The committee's job would be to identify development investment, investment as offset investments in developing countries.
I hope that Parliament will approve my proposal unanimously.
The report is timely because of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, which is taking place at this moment in Johannesburg.
The European Union, as the largest trade bloc in the world and the largest source of foreign direct investment and official development assistance, has an important role to play.
At the same time, I am aware that many developing countries, particularly the least-developed countries, have not fully shared in this growth.
Indeed, while there is no doubt that trade can potentially contribute to development, poverty eradication and food security, the actual contribution depends on enabling policies and institutions being in place.
The Doha development agenda will address the improvement of market access, new trade rules that take into account the needs of developing countries and the further mainstreaming of trade matters into development and cooperation.
I am convinced that the Doha negotiations will make a great contribution towards making the multilateral trading system and its rules more development-friendly.
In relation to the third aspect - mainstreaming trade in development cooperation - the European Union has already made important progress over the past few years.
The Community's development policy, based on the Commission's communication of April 2000, identified trade as one of six priorities for its development assistance.
I would also like to draw your attention to the Commission's communication in February of this year on a global partnership for sustainable development.
For the current ACP programming exercise for the ninth EDF, between 40 and 50% of the regional indicative programmes - EUR 280 to 350 million - is earmarked for trade-related assistance in the broad sense.
In addition, up to EUR 50 million have been pledged for new programmes with ACP-wide scope.
This approach should be reflected in the economic partnership agreements between ACP regional groupings and the Union.
My report to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, which was adopted unanimously, contains proposals on this subject, some of which have been included in the Deva report.
The report also requires the WTO to negotiate social measures to give vulnerable peoples new prospects in the face of the impact of liberalisation.
As regards future negotiations on investment, they may prove to be fruitful, but we would warn that direct investments very seldom reach the poorest countries and, when they do, it is in return for tax favours which harm these countries first of all.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by saying that my feelings about this debate are bittersweet.
I would particularly like to highlight the consultations he has held with all the governments of the developing countries in order to hear their opinions and suggestions, in particular what these countries expect from the Millennium Round.
The result is this report, which comes with the unanimous backing of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, to be voted on tomorrow.
The financial resources approved in Monterrey, which have been mentioned by the representative of the Commission, represent a step forward, but everyone agrees that they are insufficient.
We must be tougher in our demands for progress in the direction set in Doha, in order to bring about greater openness in the markets, which will stimulate world trade.
The Commissioner has mentioned the data relating to the European Union, which are certainly the most important data given for development aid in the world.
But perhaps more important and appropriate for us is the fact that the economic partnership agreement negotiations will begin this month.
We must take into account too the impact of the WTO, the IMF and the World Bank and the conditionalities which they impose upon developing countries and which actually make their trading possibilities more difficult.
Trade barriers hurt poor people in general and women in particular, since it is these groups of poor people who tend to produce the goods that are most affected: agricultural goods and labour-intensive manufactured goods.
On TRIPS, the EU should maintain a strong and determined leadership.
Returning to the EPA negotiations, we should use the Doha Declaration on TRIPS as a ceiling for any discussion with the ACP on intellectual property.
This will require a huge investment in building capacity and a serious analysis of the implications of the impact of reciprocity on our ACP partners.
It is also exaggerated, in our view, to prescribe the same food safety requirements in Europe as in the developing countries.
Priority must be given to structural change in their economies in order to increase their share of products produced and diversified, including in the agricultural sector.
As for the ADPIC agreements, these restrict access for local peoples in the South to their own natural resources and are incompatible with the objective of food security.
The same applies to transnational corporations, whose exceptional power must be regulated and controlled as a matter of urgency.
Although the Deva report does not demonstrate a radical will to throw off the shackles of die-hard commercial globalisation, it still raises the need to protect the economies of poor countries and cancel all or part of the debt.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
All in all, however, I think the report provides a starting point on some important issues.
To date, however, it has often been thought that it was enough to open up the markets of rich countries to the products of poor countries, which I believe is only a partial solution - and then not even in every case - and that agricultural productivity in these countries needed to be increased.
The second important point is the acknowledgement of the fact that access to food must be recognised as a fundamental human right.
In the report 'The Great EU Sugar Scam', published last week, Oxfam International shows how Europe's subsidies undermine local African sugar sales.
Despite pleas from Parliament and the Commission to abolish these subsidies in 2002, the European sugar lobbyists managed to persuade their governments to extend the protectionism to 2009.
The first signal should be that of credibility.
Tear down trade-fortress Europe, put an end to European theft, which is only detrimental to the income of the poor farmers in this world.
Only then can we really talk about sustainable development.
It is incredibly important that the European Parliament should keep this debate on the agenda and also never stop further developing not only the debate but also the practical proposals.
This is, in my view, an incredibly important message.
The second important message conveyed by Mr Deva relates to a situation outstandingly exemplified by ourselves and the EU inasmuch as we have of course grown up within the framework of protectionism.
Moreover, it is as if we completely forget this when we go on to discuss the developing countries.
By writing in the report that the top 200 companies have almost twice the economic clout of the poorest four-fifths of humanity, you do in fact recognise the responsibility of these huge corporations and their shareholders, whose enormous profits come from low salaries and from pillaging the natural wealth of poor countries.
This hypocrisy must stop.
We must then open up our own borders, pay fair prices for products from the developing world and guarantee the producers a reasonable income.
We must then abolish all subsidies for our own products if they lead to unfair competition with products from developing countries and to the demoralisation of the local producers who are responsible for food safety in their own country.
I particularly welcome his resolution because it restates our commitment to the principles of special and differential treatment of developing countries, to the importance of food security and to enhancing the accountability and social responsibility of corporations.
I want to make two substantive arguments in this debate.
We remember the hypocrisy of the Commission and Member States in regard to the free trade agreement negotiations with South Africa.
If only the EU sought reform in the WTO with the same vigour it has won the USD 4 billion trade sanctions against the United States in relation to our steel exports, perhaps the poorest countries would start to believe us when we say we want a development round.
Secondly, as other speakers have made clear, we have direct responsibility as the trade negotiations start with our ACP colleagues.
That is not what this European Parliament wants.
This approach will also be relevant in relations with other developing countries and groupings such as Mercosur, Central America and the Andean Community.
On the other hand, they must be integrated into the development policy of the ACP countries themselves and into the support strategies of the European Union.
As has been mentioned, Commissioner Fischler and the Commission have brought forward proposals on a review of the CAP.
Part of the concern relates to the fact that some of the governments involved are worried that some farmers might retain some of the GMO maize, resulting in cross-fertilisation with conventional crops in those countries.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0242/2002) by Mr Stevenson, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament on options to promote the cultivation of plant proteins in the EU (COM(2001) 148/2 - C5-0260/2001 - 2001/2116(COS)).
Mr President, the fact that Parliament views this report with great seriousness can be gauged from the two major hearings which have been held during the past year: one by ECOSOC and one by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
This situation has been exacerbated by the continuing MBM (meat and bone meal) ban which has created a further 2 million tonne hole in our protein supply.
However, the Commission is forecasting a fall in plant protein production in these countries once they become full Members of the EU and a switch to cereals.
Amongst many recommendations, I have suggested various ways of encouraging an increase in plant protein production by investing more in research into and development of new and improved plant varieties.
I have also called for rotational aid payments to farmers to encourage the production of plant proteins in the cereal crop cycle and for the growing of protein crops, grain legumes and oil seeds on set-aside land.
I urge Commissioner Byrne to think again on this issue and to lift the ban, which is affecting a significant number of jobs in the fish processing and livestock feed sector.
I believe there is great potential in developing the non-food sector.
The Commission has shown a great deal of interest in this sector.
However, developments in this area are mainly determined by the tax situation for biofuels.
I would be interested in hearing how Commissioner Byrne and Commissioner Fischler think the mid-term review will affect this position.
Since the Council Decision of 4 December 2000, the use of processed animal protein has been banned in feed for all animals.
This analysis resulted in the Commission papers presented in March 2001.
Firstly, the ban on meat and bonemeal for non-ruminants would create a deficit of 1.5 million tonnes of soyameal equivalent.
Thirdly, increased aid for oilseeds would bring us back into the Blair House Agreement's restrictions on areas cultivated with crop-specific aids.
Since the presentation of our report, we have continued our reflections not only on plant proteins but indeed across the board.
This culminated in the mid-term review of the EU's common agricultural policy presented by the Commission on 10 July 2002.
The Commission is of the opinion that public expenditure in the farm sector must be better justified.
For EU consumers and taxpayers, the review should ensure better value for money.
The mid-term review of the CAP gives us a chance in the context of the new round of WTO negotiations to oblige our trading partners to accept our demands on, for example, the recognition of registered designations of origin, animal welfare, food safety and the precautionary principle.
Finally, let me say something on the feed ban relating to fishmeal.
In particular it may be difficult to exclude the presence of land animal proteins in fishmeal or feed containing fishmeal.
The reallowance of fishmeal in ruminant feed therefore mainly depends on the availability of methods of differentiate between fishmeal and prohibited animal proteins.
What is also at issue, apart from this high degree of dependence with regard to raw materials for meat and milk production, is the fact that these imports are concentrated in only three countries, the United States, Argentina and Brazil, which are, of course, our main competitors in the world agri-food markets.
This does not make sense.
The solution to this problem must involve three main measures, in line, in fact, with the rapporteur's proposals.
The first is to end the area limits imposed by Blair House.
The second reason, or the second measure, is that due to the excessive deficit specifically in the plant protein sector, the current increase in aid must be maintained or, if possible, increased.
With this aid differential and without the area limits (the semi-area imposed by Blair House), we will be able to improve our situation within a few years.
And the third reason, also mentioned in the report, is that a review must be undertaken of the ban on fishmeal in ruminant feeds, following a proper scientific study.
We should be aware that we import almost 80% of the plant proteins required to fulfil our needs and that this heavy reliance cannot be approached solely from the point of view of the commercial interests at the time.
Commissioner, those affected by the American embargo in 1973, as I was, are aware of the price of this reliance and cannot tolerate the level of risks run today.
Paradoxically, although demand is high in Europe, production here is stagnating, or even decreasing, and the worst thing is that the European Union does not seem determined to remedy this situation properly.
The various measures you are advocating on behalf of the Commission to adapt Agenda 2000 to current needs do not seem sufficient to address the current problems.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first of all thank Mr Stevenson for a particularly thorough report.
This fact puts the European Union in an extremely vulnerable position and is not a sustainable response to our needs in terms of plant proteins, as the rapporteur points out in his report.
It is, therefore, important that we encourage the development of plant protein production in the European Union, which will help to make us less dependent on imports and to ensure the multifunctionality of Community agriculture, introducing other species and varieties of grain legumes which have inexplicably been excluded from Community support and from the improvement plans.
I would remind you of yellow lupin and other species that have traditionally been used for animal feed, particularly in the Mediterranean countries, and which have not benefited from Community support.
It is hard to understand why no effort has yet been made to renegotiate them, in the aim of terminating them, thereby making greater direct aid possible for the protection of proteins in the European Union.
I would also remind you that now, when it comes to revising the CAP, neither this report nor the proposals that will surely be approved here in the European Parliament must be forgotten.
In the other set-aside areas, though, we must focus on the environmental impact of protein cultivation and on the fact that this cultivation of protein yields 40 to 80 kilos.
We need to look again here at how we achieve a monitoring system and how, too, we can incorporate environmental factors into the negotiations with the Americans in such a way that we come to a new agreement and are not permanently obliged to refer back to one that dates back ten years -- by which I mean Blair House.
The aftermath of the BSE crisis and the ban on the use of meat and bonemeal has left a serious, sharp fall of proteins in animal feed and must be filled by other means.
It allows our farmers to diversify their production and to produce crops for which there is a clear and demonstrable market.
We know, however, that soya-exporting countries mainly grow GMOs.
The second issue is the quantitative security of the world market.
Furthermore, this market is growing by 5% per year, and it would be even more senseless for Europe not to be involved in this growth since internal demand within the Union, including demand in the future Member States, where meat consumption will increase on accession, is destined to experience sustained growth.
The increasing protein shortfall in the Union should, therefore, be a matter of the utmost priority for the Commission.
In response to these issues, and in order to replace animal meal, the Commission is merely proposing that we resign ourselves to seeing an increasing percentage of our consumption rely on imports, over which we would have no control with regard to price, production conditions, or compliance with the social and environmental specifications we impose on our own farmers.
That is why our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has pursued a far more dynamic strategy in adopting the Stevenson report, which aims to infuse a little political will into the feeble Commission communication.
They ask the Commission to examine how to renegotiate the Blair House agreement with a view to increasing protein production s in the Union and to augmenting supplementary aid for protein crops that are not affected by the Blair House agreement.
What I seek at the international level is for the Blair House agreement to be at last seriously reconsidered and for all parties to see the urgent necessity of facilitating the production of plant protein in the EU in accordance with the regulations.
I do believe that a genuinely serious discussion on this has to be set in train at European level, for we are well aware that biofuels are environmentally friendly and can also be produced without prior energy input.
Whilst remaining within the financial framework, the EU needs to promote the use of plants in protein production with the minimum possible delay, in order to secure an independent supply of protein for farmers and European agriculture, facilitate energy generation and thus reduce our dependence on fossil energy.
Mr President, promoting the cultivation of plant proteins in the European Union is one of the key issues on which the present and the future of European agriculture and food safety hinge.
The Commission has thrown a very simple solution into the debate and I also think that it is indeed meant to be a way of getting the discussion started.
But the answer contained in this report is exceptionally good.
With regard to bioenergy and plant proteins, for example, the solution is very simple.
Mr President, it is clear from the explanatory statement to the report that the Commission sees the ban on meat and bonemeal in fodder as a temporary measure and, as soon as the justifiable outcry surrounding the mad cow crisis dies down, it is considering gradually lifting any bans, never mind the tremendous problems which using animal protein as fodder creates for public health and livestock.
This, coupled with the Commission's insistence on abiding to the letter by the GATT agreement and Agenda 2000, which ban any increase on plant protein crops, reveals in all its glory the hypocrisy of the Commission, which is using every environmental excuse it can under Agenda 2000 in a bid to reduce agricultural output.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Stevenson, the European Commission rejected the proposal by the Spanish Presidency of the Council to adopt actions to promote protein crops of which there is a shortfall in the European Union, and which are being replaced with soya imports, mainly from the United States and often genetically modified.
Maintaining or increasing imports of these products which are not surplus to requirements, such as non-genetically modified soya and corn from developing countries, must be an important part of our cooperation policy but, at the same time, it must also be a priority to promote self-sufficient and sustainable agri-breeding systems within the least-favoured regions of the European Union, which create employment and sustain the rural population, primary genetic resources and the necessary production of biofuels.
As some of my fellow Members have said, it has increased by 23%.
Faced with this deficit, the only solution that the European Commission has proposed is to increase imports of these protein crops, an increase that will grow worse after the new Member States have joined the Union.
The Community's Executive has rejected the memorandum presented during the recent Spanish Presidency and supported by many Member States, in favour of promoting these crops in the European Union, despite the fact that we are increasingly dependent on soya from the United States.
This dependence could, furthermore, increase, following the increase in aid granted by that country under its new agricultural law.
Apart from commercial reasons, however - which the European Commission wishes to bandy around in order to justify its refusal to re-establish specific aid for oilseed crops - there is no reason not to support other crops with a protein content higher even than that of oilseed crops, such as dry fodder, in the case of which production quotas cannot match demand.
In order to address protein supply needs, there are also other crops, such as protein and leguminous crops - such as kidney beans, beans and sweet lupins, which have already been mentioned - which are not subject to any type of WTO restriction and which we could also include.
It should not be forgotten, furthermore, that the European Union has given a commitment to reducing CO2 emissions, and that one possible approach is to promote the production of biofuels, which is another reason why the European Parliament should support the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in favour of promoting these crops and of reducing, if not eliminating, these external dependencies, which can cause so many problems with regard to the degree of supply and the quality and safety monitoring of these crops under our rules.
Lastly, a comment: Mr Commissioner, if we do not maintain our production and supply capacity, what will become of our ability to negotiate and defend our interests in international forums?
As we are dealing here with developing countries, this means that it is imports from developing countries that are ever increasing in recent years.
The only other genetically modified type of soya in the USA and worldwide contains a high percentage of oleic acid and is subject in the USA to strict trademark safeguards, being capable of being sold at very high prices by reason of its health-giving properties.
The latest proposal on traceability and labelling does not provide for the labelling of any animal products produced using GM feedstuffs.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
