If we want to help at international level to ensure that this issue is kept on the agenda - as Stavros Dimas is successfully doing for the Commission - as the European Union, as the Parliament, we must state what our concept is; in other words, we need to state what our visiting card is on this issue.
Ultimately, Europe must show how we are dealing with this issue, and what approach we are adopting in order to encourage other countries and continents to move with us in the same direction.
We have heard the views of numerous experts from international bodies all over the world, under the excellent chairmanship of my good friend Guido Sacconi who managed matters very well.
This is not a combative sort of paper, as some of my friends have occasionally claimed; it is a status report as a basis on which to determine how we should proceed in future.
In Europe, we need to muster our energy for a new third industrial revolution based on the three pillars of sustainability, namely product sustainability, the social dimension and of course the economic dimension.
The fact is that in just 500 years, we are squandering energy which took millions of years to create, and we have absolutely no answer to the question of how our children, and our children's children, will be able to develop their energy sources in future.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Mr President, Mr Florenz, ladies and gentlemen, proof is now available that man shares the responsibility for the great changes to the climate system, and that these changes have already had a negative impact on nature and human society.
The Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, released in Spain in November 2007, represents the most complete and the most credible scientific assessment of climate change so far.
The assessment reports on the situation which have been published by IPCC since 1990 show that the science on climate change and the consequences thereof has made considerable advances over the last few years.
This process has been outlined in the Action Plan from Bali.
The European Union is determined to further maintain its leading international role in the area of climate change and energy, and to preserve the necessary impetus in negotiations within the framework of the United Nations Convention, in particular at one of its next sessions this year in Poznan.
The key challenge is that the transition to a safe and sustainable low carbon economy is carried out in a manner that will be in line with the sustainable development of the European Union, its competitiveness, a reliable energy supply, food security, and healthy and sustainable public finances.
The report confirms the European Parliament's support for an ambitious Community policy on combating climate change.
Let me take this opportunity, Mr President, to thank all the Members of the European Parliament for their continuing support and vital contribution towards promoting our climate policy, raising public awareness and informing MPs from other countries.
Mr President, I should also like to point out the important part you have played in promoting the EU's policy on climate change.
I am sure that you and Members of the European Parliament will continue with the same commitment, so that in the two brief years we have ahead of us we can achieve an agreement by the end of 2009 in Copenhagen.
Both in the EU, where discussions on the climate and energy package of measures are intensifying, and in international negotiations, we must muster all our resources and cooperate as best we can.
We must make use of the EU's head start, bearing in mind the Copenhagen Conference in December 2009.
Two factors have helped us reach the important decisions taken in Bali: Europe's position as world leader in combating climate change, and the scientific findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
Thanks to these findings, many world leaders have accepted that there is indeed an urgent need to take measures.
I think we nearly all agree that it has indeed been scientifically proven that urgent, bold measures to combat climate change are needed.
This report puts across more clearly than ever before the scientific message given by the IPCC and other sources in 2007.
This does not mean that all the questions have been answered or that we have understood every detail; but we now know enough to conclude that the rapid adoption of ambitious measures is in our interests, in terms of energy security and in economic, environmental and social terms.
If we are to restrict global warming to 2°C, the threshold above which we lose the ability to limit or reverse its environmental impact, greenhouse gas emissions should peak within the next 10 to 15 years at the most.
There must be a worldwide transition to a low-CO2 economy, and small but important changes are needed in many aspects of our everyday lives.
The IPCC reports have made it clear that even with ambitious measures to reduce emissions some serious effects of climate change are probably inevitable.
The international community must therefore be ready to deal with them.
Signing a substantial, comprehensive agreement that meets the ambitious targets set by scientific findings is a considerable challenge.
Persuading our international partners to sign the ambitious agreement is our objective and will require a titanic effort.
The EU must therefore remain faithful to its hitherto successful strategy.
This means that we must achieve positive results at home and show our international partners abroad that adopting ambitious measures is neither contrary to their interests, nor does it hinder their economic development.
This means a 25-40% reduction in their emissions by 2020 from the 1990 level.
As well as working with developed countries, we must also work to achieve ambitious commitments on emission reduction from developing countries, especially the more advanced ones.
Measures in this direction must be provided for and supported in the forthcoming 2009 agreement.
For instance, there will be the G8 Conference and G8+5, for which the Japanese presidency is concentrating on climate change.
We shall persuade our partners that urgent measures must be taken and that sound, viable policies must be mapped out on energy and climate change.
I am confident that together you have just as important a role to play as the Commission in putting this crucial message across to our partners, to our citizens and to their parliamentary representatives.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, I am sorry I am late, but I was trying to keep my speed down in order to protect our climate.
In the opinion of a majority of experts on the subject, we can no longer entertain any doubts as to the fact that global warming is now a reality, and that it is largely due to human activities.
The interim report by our Temporary Committee on Climate Change is the first phase in a process that will lead to a search for solutions.
The debate on climate change cannot, however, be boiled down to a battle of statistics.
It is no longer a matter of questioning the phenomenon of climate change, but for all of us to work together to find solutions and implement them.
Members of our PPE-DE Group on these committees and the PPE Group as a whole are heavily involved.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has taken on the role of world leader in the fight against climate change vis-à-vis its international partners, and it must retain this role.
If we do not take our role seriously to encourage the US and other countries, as you said, Commissioner, such as China and India, to join us in the fight against climate change, then who will?
Europe must be united and fully operational at the Poznań World Conference in December 2008, which will shape the agreement we hope to sign in Copenhagen in December 2009.
This is a world challenge, but Europe is the power that can persuade its partners to join its fight, and we must make preparations for the future of our children and our grandchildren.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, the Socialist Group moved that the Temporary Committee on Climate Change be established and when we tabled that motion we were more convinced than ever that we are at a decisive phase in terms of European and indeed international policy, for what we are expecting of this Committee is a Herculean task, not only here in the House.
I therefore welcome the fact that this debate has revealed an overwhelming consensus among Members of this House that we must make massive efforts to master the challenges facing us.
I would therefore like to join in the thanks expressed to Karl-Heinz Florenz who, as a member of a different parliamentary group but in his capacity as rapporteur, has presented a report whose contents we, as the Socialist Group, can certainly endorse.
I am grateful too that, with Karl-Heinz Florenz and my colleague Guido Sacconi, we have two people from this House jointly steering the Committee, which in my view is a good sign that we can achieve a result based on a consensus.
I would therefore like to highlight two or three fracture lines which we will have to deal with.
Today, we know that we have to solve energy and climate problems but also combat hunger in the world.
The industrial structures which were established over the course of 50 or 60 years have been responsible for the damage to our climate.
We need a change of course, but we all need to recognise that industrial structures which have been established over 50 or 60 years cannot be changed within two weeks by a parliamentary resolution.
If we have the same readiness in the Council too, and if all three European institutions work together, then before the European elections, we can achieve what Mr Daul has said: namely to signal to the public that the heads of state and government agree the broad policy outlines while the European Parliament does the detailed work.
The science of climate change is incontrovertible.
And the bottom line is that - despite commitments in Kyoto - global greenhouse gas emissions are growing faster than ever before, up by a quarter since 1990.
What we must do - in the absence of further evidence, and with the resources at hand - is to approve the Commission's climate change package, and I salute the work that my colleagues Lena Ek, Chris Davis and Vittorio Prodi have done in this area.
It has been done for 20 years in California.
Unfortunately, in parallel to the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, climate policy is being pursued in the European Parliament's other committees as well: in the Committee on Industry, in the Committee on Environment and in the Committee on Development.
What is being put forward at present in this context by Mr Langen, the rapporteur for the Committee on Industry, has nothing to do with ambitious climate policy or the effort to guarantee energy security through efficiency technologies, which is what we are prescribing for the car industry in Europe.
We are often accused of being remote in this institution, of not being in touch with our people, but on this occasion the EU is working for its citizens.
In the Reform Treaty, which is a very prominent subject of debate in my country at the present time, the European Union has outlined measures which will see the 27 Member States combating climate change, united together.
The European Union constructively facilitated the UN agreement breakthrough in Bali last December, with all parties now recognising the urgency of action.
Are we seriously willing to sacrifice not only our climate and planet, but also our economies?
Already scientists inform us that the last decade was the warmest on record and that 2007 was one of the top 10 warmest years.
Let us not forget our achievements and goals in Bali.
We note from the report that global emissions increased by 70% between 1970 and 2004, that the last decade was the warmest ever and that we face several tipping-points, for example the melting of the Greenland ice sheet.
As I have said, we should go further.
In regard to freedom of thought, there is nothing worse than insisting that only one scientific opinion is correct and denouncing other ideas.
Thank you, Mrs Bobošíková.
This knowledge is precisely the basis upon which, in the space of one year, Commissioner Dimas, the world political climate has also changed, and global warming is not the only thing to have happened.
As a scientist I can only welcome the fact that the picture in terms of science has finally been accepted and acknowledged, even in high-ranking political bodies such as this.
The package of measures set out must be approved within a specific period, and in line with the Bali undertakings, in other words the package must be one which abides by the commitments, as well as being transparent, in place and verified.
This is no longer the odd dissenting voice, and Nigel Lawson, a member of the House of Lords Committee on Climate Change, also agrees that the debate is not over.
For the last 10 years global temperatures have been static or falling.
The scientific facts are well-known: the climate change that we are witnessing today has much to do with human activity.
One example is the assertion that climate change should become a priority in development assistance.
I advocate a rational approach to the issue of climate change, so that we can then identify solutions which are socially and economically compatible.
The climate change debate is very emotional, rightly so of course.
It is very important for Europe to demonstrate its credibility before Copenhagen and to reach agreement on the climate package.
The starting point for our policy is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) findings.
In order to keep climate change within the limits, we have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60 to 80% before 2050.
Firstly, the policy must be knowledge-based and that does not mean, Mr Pieper, that the consensus in the IPCC is set in stone.
I would point out that it has very strong political and symbolic significance, which is manifested not least in the fact that the leaders of the three big political groups introduced the debate.
We shall be addressing that in the next report.
Avril Doyle and I are both rapporteurs on emission rights trading.
These preparations must proceed in an entirely different way, in cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission and together with the developing countries.
There are only 18 months to go. (EL) Mr President, I, too, congratulate Mr Florenz on his report.
We know of your struggle, Commissioner, even within the Commission, against lobbies and interests that undermine the EU's efforts to be a world leader in the fight against climate change.
The vast majority of the European Parliament is an ally.
We refer to it in our report and in our resolution.
So too did the majority of the governments of the 110 countries represented on the Panel.
Nonetheless, it is most important for us to bear in mind that it already seems very probable that greenhouse gases produced by human beings are the main cause of global warming, so action is therefore called for.
That is why the European Union assumed the role of world leader in limiting emissions.
Consequently, it is particularly important for us Europeans to achieve a global agreement on this issue in Poznań and Copenhagen.
I would like particularly to stress that, as this is a matter of the ecological, economic and social impact on climate change, we should focus more on the issue of energy efficiency.
As I put on my hat as Vice-Chairwoman of the Committee on Fisheries, I would urge that its considered views be taken on board in this interim report today.
In conclusion, there is a series of amendments emphasising the scientific impact of the consequences of climate change on the world's oceans.
I would urge colleagues to support these amendments, as Parliament's decision-making report should be as comprehensive and as integrated as possible. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to start by expressing my warm thanks to our rapporteur for his work.
The agriculture and forestry sector is one of the industries hardest hit by climate change and therefore has a strong interest in effective climate protection measures being adopted at global level.
The involvement of all countries, especially the developing countries, in the post-Kyoto process is essential.
It is also well-known that renewable resources for crop-based fuels do not release any more CO2 than was stored during their growth, which means that they are indeed CO2-neutral.
For that reason, it is important to conduct more intensive research as well as to save energy through more efficient use.
Let us take heart from the fact that it took 3 000 years for it to be accepted that the Earth is a globe and not flat.
A solution can only be achieved worldwide, and the European Union should certainly take a leading and mediating role in combating climate change. (LV) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his clear and unambiguous position, which, on the basis of the results of scientific studies, acknowledges that global warming is really happening and that it is caused by humans.
In order to keep global warming within the bounds of 2%, according to current estimates the volume of CO2 emissions will need to be reduced by at least half by 2050.
In this context, the statement in the report to the effect that nearly all the EU Member States have made good progress in meeting the Kyoto targets is over-optimistic.
In the period from 1990 to 2005 the 15 older EU Member States reduced their emissions by only 2%, and it is very unlikely that in the remaining five years they will reduce their emissions by a further 6%, in order to achieve their collective Kyoto target.
However, we must act quickly, responsibly, seriously, and in a coordinated manner: inside the Union first, and then also globally.
However, we can reach international agreement only if we give equal consideration to both the measures to reduce emissions and the measures for modifying emissions, in order to bring them in line with the climate changes.
Thank you for your attention. (FI) Mr President, mankind is to blame for climate change and man can also therefore help change its direction.
For example, some studies show that energy production from algae is up to 15 times greater per hectare than production from grapes, palm oil and soya, so more research into this is needed.
We therefore need to take action in collaboration with the United States of America, China, India, and Russia. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
In other words, it is not enough to pat ourselves on the back; it is not enough to talk of 10 or 20 or 30 or 40%.
According to European Environment Agency figures, not only have carbon dioxide emissions not fallen since 2000, they have in fact risen somewhat, by 1%.
If we want to achieve success in Copenhagen, we must create the Adaptation Fund.
The Stern report showed that unless there is an Adaptation Fund the other regions of the world have very little chance of avoiding the unpleasant consequences of climate change.
Thank you. (RO) Climate change already affects the European Union.
The Union has undertaken an important role in the fight against climate change both as regards the reduction of causes and the adjustment to climate change.
Unfortunately, global governance in the field of environmental protection is decentralized and sometimes the coherence of overall decisions is lacking; 18 multilateral institutions are responsible with monitoring approximately 500 international agreements, of which 300 at regional level.
The European Union has to have the role of leader in this field.
The latest scientific studies lead to the conviction that human activity too has contributed to the global warming trend and therefore the onus is on our society to implement effective political measures.
Making scientifically proven information available to the public and so contributing to increased public awareness on this issue should be an important instrument in climate change mitigation policies. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, let me first welcome the interim report on the scientific facts of climate change.
We all know of course what the truth is.
And another conclusion, that the climate change is not just a problem, but it can also be an opportunity.
Coordinated political measures are required in numerous areas of the European Union.
On this matter I am in favour of respecting the field of politics.
The European Parliament is an eminent political arena.
At the same time we should not forget the space of the citizen, the ordinary man, who will be affected by individual measures in terms of quality of his life, including when he is working out his family budget and planning his future.
We particularly welcome the European Parliament's decision to extend the mandate to the Temporary Committee on Climate Change to February 2009.
Mr President, we see this as a particular additional proof that in the sphere of climate change the European Parliament supports the ambitious policy of the European Union at an international level with its actions, taking care that its political decisions are backed with the latest scientific results.
We are also pleased with the announcement in today's debate that the debate on the climate change bundle will follow, which should mean a serious fulfilment of the commitments made by the European Council in March 2008.
Since I will be or hope to be a commissioner for another 18 months, I assure you that there is no way we can fail to achieve the Kyoto target.
It has to be said that the EU is reducing its greenhouse gas emissions, while other countries such as the United States are increasing them, and at a significantly faster rate than in 1990.
In 2005, as you said, we were 2% below the 1990 level, and in 2006 a little short of 3% for the 15 EU countries, which have a collective target.
Let us note that our decrease of just over 8% is very positive because it will help us to achieve the target for 2020 and beyond.
According to the interim report, scientific findings will play an important role in international negotiations because they will allow us to take bold measures.
The resolution reminds us of the dangers involved in uncontrolled climate change, which will affect human society in a variety of ways and will seriously impact our economies and cultural traditions.
Allow me here to mention some other topics raised in the report.
The package of measures on climate change and energy now at the co-decision stage gives us a head start in the transition.
We shall continue our highly constructive cooperation on this important package of policy measures and shall reach an agreement, I hope, as soon as possible this year.
May our cooperation and exchange of views continue, both on the package of measures on climate and energy, and on the international negotiations in the run-up to Poznań and Copenhagen.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, many thanks for your closing words which are very encouraging.
I think that we have been able to identify a consensus here in the House, and this consensus naturally obliges us to undertake further scientific studies and to eliminate the remaining doubts, for after all, in which area of human knowledge is there no room for doubt?
Let me say this: we will have many other issues to argue about, for CO2 emissions are just the tip of the iceberg.
That is what we need to achieve, and then we will have fulfilled our task.
That is our opportunity, as I see it, and I would ask all of you to help us seize this opportunity with both hands.
I shall not mince my words: I think it is important to point out that there is a problem with bad translation in the House, which is evident throughout this entire report, and I would like to draw your attention to the correctly phrased amendments in this area which have been tabled in the House.
I would like to thank everyone involved and invite you to work with us on the next and more difficult stage in this process, namely resolving the question of how we should now respond to these scientific facts.
As Sir Nicholas Stern has pointed out, the economic and social costs of climate change will be catastrophic.
The EU has a legitimate role in tackling climate change and it needs to set an example and provide guidance to other countries.
There is a strong case for technology transfer from the EU to developing countries so they can avoid carbon intensive industrial development and leapfrog directly to a low carbon economy.
in writing. - (HU) It is absolutely vital to take into account the facts of climate change based on the scientific evidence when making decisions in this regard.
The fact that the system works is proof that the market, competition and environmental protection are not mutually exclusive ideas.
In Hungary there are many examples that demonstrate how mistaken conclusions can result in wrong decisions being made.
The measures put in place in these two areas do not meet sustainability requirements, and besides, they fail to offer a market-friendly response to the problem.
In point 5 it says that it is scientifically 'proven' that man is the main cause of climate change.
Point 8 mentions that the deglaciation of Greenland and of the west Antarctic ice sheet are examples of tipping points of climate change.
Neither would I accuse or condemn climate change sceptics and critics, as is the case in point 10.
Karl-Heinz Florenz' report is exhaustive, proving that scientific data are sufficient in order to make firm political decisions and initiate concrete actions not only at European level, but also at a global level, for drastically reducing the anthropic phenomena responsible for the climate change and mitigate their effects.
The research efforts must be continued, especially in the field of new technologies, renewable energy and biofuels, in order to find the necessary balance for maintaining economic competitiveness, social development and ensure food and energy security, which are essential for European citizens' wellbeing.
This is a position the EU must retain in the future too.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Committee for a successful report.
Studies by the US space agency NASA show that the control of climate change will call for more radical action: the gas content in the atmosphere caused by climate change must be restricted more stringently to be able to avoid these radical changes.
Starting with the 2007 Summit, when a 20% target was decided for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the use of renewable energy resources by 2020, global warming has become a priority for every country in the world.
Today the IPCC, which collates the work of thousands of scientists, has provided sufficient proof that climate change is happening, and our job is to act rather than to continue to provide proof.
The European Union must be ambitious and adopt a target closer to a 30% reduction in greenhouse emissions by the year 2020.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the report.
Scientific findings on the 'greenhouse effect' have been available for more than 180 years.
The facts convincingly demonstrate that prompt action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is required, and that we must limit warming to less than 2°C through changes in our lifestyles and consumer behaviour and through the adoption of political and social criteria and frameworks.
