author. - (ES) Mr President, the human rights situation in Iran has deteriorated dramatically since 2005.
The execution of children in Iran will be one of the issues included in the report to the General Assembly by the United Nations Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon, in September.
author. - (PL) Mr President, when we are discussing issues of breaches of human rights in the world, we have to make certain distinctions, particularly between situations where we are considering unstable regimes, civil wars, crimes committed in situations of absolute chaos and situations like the one in Iran, where the state is relatively stable, where there is no civil war, where there are elections from time to time, but where the state uses criminal methods such as executions of children.
Moreover, there is no justification in Iranian culture for the barbaric acts of executions of juvenile offenders and even political opponents committed by the Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's Iranian regime.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Mr President, I can understand, although I absolutely do not accept it, that there are legal systems in the world that use the death penalty.
It is right that we should call on the political and judicial authorities in Iran to introduce a moratorium on carrying out the death penalty.
However, we must also ask ourselves how the international community should be judged, how we ourselves should be judged, since we are unable to ensure that signatories to international agreements comply with the clauses contained in those agreements, at the expense of teenagers who are sentenced to death.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (PL) Mr President, we are debating this matter today because we have been moved by the threat to carry out the death penalty on four young people under 18 years of age.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the most treasured possession that any person has is their life.
Recent information indicates that at least 85 underage criminals are awaiting execution in that country.
Incidentally the man who made her pregnant was sentenced to 99 lashes. (PL) Mr President, in Iran at least 430 death penalties have been carried out on young people since 1990.
In Iran the death penalty is even carried out on ten year olds.
Mr President, I condemn the human rights abuses that occur daily in Iran.
