Impact of aviation security measures and body scanners on human rights, privacy, personal dignity and data protection (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on the impact of aviation security measures and body scanners on human rights, privacy, personal dignity and data protection, by Philip Bradbourn and Marco Cappato, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs - B6-0478/2008).
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, I would like to thank Parliament for having tabled this oral question, because it allows me to clarify an event and an issue which I consider to be important.
With regard to passengers' rights - their right to safety and security and also their right not to have to put up with sometimes very long queues - as well as a control system that seemed to be obsolete and not always very effective, we have criticised all of this, and when I was an MEP I did so too.
The aim of the proposal - I want to state it very clearly, and therefore I am happy that we can discuss this matter today - is not the decision by the Commission to add body scanners as from 2010.
With regard to the timetable, only if Parliament declares itself in favour, and only if we have verified that these instruments are useful and not damaging, particularly in terms of citizens' health, will we be able to assess whether to then start to make a decision establishing under what conditions these technologies can be used.
With regard to the procedure, in line with the comitology procedure with scrutiny, on 4 September I informed the chairman of the relevant parliamentary committee, which is the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
In my letter replying to Mr Costa, sent on 7 October, I stressed several points.
The first was that the measure under consideration was perhaps to look at the possibility of using body scanners as a supplementary option for checking passengers and not as a mandatory requirement.
I stated that some aspects, especially the impact on passengers' health and particularly their privacy, will have to be analysed in more depth before any regulation is adopted regarding body scanners.
In addition, the European Data Protection Supervisor's office would be involved - this is still what I put in the letter sent on 7 October to Mr Costa.
That is why I believe that it is right to debate this issue.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission and Transport Commissioner, we are well aware of your efforts to inform the Committee on Transport and Tourism through its chairman, Mr Costa, and of the contents of this exchange of letters.
I feel that you should be very careful and tactful with how you make your announcements on this.
In other words, it is clear, regarding the substance, that any security tool must be examined in terms of people's safety and privacy and the effectiveness of the measure itself, the cost-benefit ratio - how much these machines cost, because that too is a problem - and I believe that that will become the most sensitive aspect.
I therefore believe that we are in agreement that a tool of this kind can receive the green light from the European Union only after a rigorous analysis of all these aspects and only after such an analysis has resulted in a positive opinion on all these aspects.
So, for these reasons and in this context the authoritarian character of the body scanner is apparent, and for these political and philosophical reasons it is not, in my view, acceptable to subject our bodies to this tool, which is yet another despotic display of technological power. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of a European approach.
The Commission's argument - but also that of the developers of this technology - is that body scanners are intended as alternative to physical searches.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, I believe that today an important goal has been achieved, and that is the goal of launching a debate on body scanners, in order to understand whether this is an issue that needs to be addressed or not.
The workshop that we have arranged for 6 November, which will include representatives of the Member States and MEPs, will be an opportunity - not that it is the only one, since it might be the first of a series of specific meetings - to assess all aspects of the use of body scanners, starting with what I consider to be the most important, human health.
I believe that all these guarantees must and can be assessed afterwards by Parliament, which I intend to consult again at successive stages, starting with the workshop to be held on 6 November.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 23 October.
