I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because I agree with the idea that Europe needs more researchers.
Despite current events clearly showing that the neoliberal Lisbon Strategy is one of the instruments responsible for the worsening economic and social situation in the European Union, the report insists on its application, with which we disagree.
However, there are positive aspects in the report, which we support, particularly with regard to meeting the needs of researchers, their rights in terms of working and social security conditions, reunification of families, rights of female researchers and access for young researchers, and the call for increased funding for research and the involvement of a greater number of researchers.
However, it is not clear how the proposed European research strategy will guarantee equal rights in all Member States and universal access for researchers, particularly young researchers, to the European Partnership for Researchers, especially in countries such as Portugal, which is not at the heart of political decision-making in a European Union that is increasingly being managed by the major powers.
in writing. - (EL) The report on a European partnership for researchers seeks to strengthen the competitiveness of the EU in relation to the other imperialist centres, limit the 'drain' of researchers and attract researchers from developing countries.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I voted in favour of Mrs Locatelli's report on a European partnership for researchers.
As a university lecturer, I understand that Europe needs more researchers in order to improve its productivity and competitiveness, especially in light of competition from other large economies at world level such as the United States and Japan, as well as other developing economies like India and China.
Video games are now the favourite recreational activity of young people in Europe and beyond.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Manders report on the protection of consumers, in particular minors, in respect of the use of video games.
in writing. - (SV) This report contains a whole series of requirements on what Member States are to do to limit the harmful use of video games: schools should inform children and parents of the advantages and disadvantages of video games; parents should take measures to avoid negative consequences when their children play video games; Member States should explore the merit of introducing a 'red button' to install on game devices and computers to block access to certain games; national information campaigns for consumers should be conducted; owners of Internet cafes should prevent children from playing games that are intended for adults; a special pan-European code of conduct for retailers and producers of video games should be introduced; and Member States should introduce civil and criminal legislation on the retailing of violent television, video and computer games.
Video games for minors are associated with many disturbing cultural and social problems.
For these reasons, I voted against this report in the final vote.
As video games are becoming more popular both with children and adults, it is important to have a political debate about their regulatory framework.
The video games market is a fast-growing global market.
However, video games are no longer targeted only at children as an ever-increasing number of them are designed specially for adults.
It is true that video games can be used for educational purposes, but only on the condition that they are used according to their intended purpose for each age group.
For this reason, we must pay particular attention to the PEGI system for rating games.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Manders report on the protection of consumers, in particular minors, in respect of the use of video games.
I therefore regard the comprehensive negotiation with Israel as a fundamental step towards further development of EU-Israeli aviation relations and the extension of the Common Aviation Area in the Euromed Area.
in writing. - I do not understand how a Parliament that has called for the lifting of Israel's economic blockade of Gaza can today have voted in favour of a report intended to increase our cooperation with that country.
Israel allowed through a limited amount of food, some hygiene products, some cooking oil, and some heavy diesel fuel, in all a total of 110 truckloads - although UNRWA tells us that the Gaza Strip needs 500 truckloads of supplies each day.
The misery continues.
in writing. - I voted against this Report which seeks to establish a common aviation area with Israel.
However, given recent events in Gaza; involving the brutal and indiscriminate slaughter of civilians, and, the levelling of Gazan infrastructure, effectively obliterating billions in European development aid; In the context of the decision by the European Parliament last December to defer the upgrading of EU relations with Israel; and considering the continuing disregard for UN resolutions and the extension of settlements in the West Bank and Jerusalem; and further considering my own recent visit to Gaza where I saw first hand that Israel simply hasn't lifted the siege of Gaza to allow crucial humanitarian aid to pass; I regard it as wholly inappropriate for Parliament to approve this agreement.
in writing. - I abstained on the final vote on the EC-Israel aviation agreement as a mark of protest with regard to the ongoing crisis in Palestine.
in writing. - (EL) We consider it unacceptable to debate and for the European Parliament to propose agreement with Israel on the creation of a Common Aviation Area between the EU and Israel while the slaughter of the Palestinian people in the murderous war unleashed against it by the Israeli Government in the Gaza Strip is still fresh.
The proposal for such an agreement confirms the criminal responsibility of the EU which, with its hypocritical stance of sitting on the fence, is basically rewarding and strengthening Israel and the new war which it has unleashed and which has caused a huge humanitarian disaster among the Palestinian people, the death of more than 1 300 Palestinians, the overwhelming majority of whom were civilians, children and women, injury to over 5 000 people and the total destruction of civil infrastructures in Gaza, including schools and the UN premises.
It also supports Israel's intention to flatten dozens of houses in East Jerusalem, uprooting more than 1 000 Palestinians in yet another bid to evict the Palestinian people from Jerusalem and making it even harder to find a solution to the Middle East.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I have voted in favour of my report on developing a Common Aviation Area with Israel.
in writing. - I strongly support this Resolution which calls for an immediate ceasefire by the Sri Lankan army and the LTTE in order to allow the civilian population to leave the combat zone.
The European Parliament is also concerned about reports of serious overcrowding and poor conditions in the refugee camps established by the Sri Lankan Government.
There can be no long-term military solution to the conflict but only a political solution which recognises the rights of all people on the island.
What purpose does it serve in finding a long-term solution?
On 9 September 2006, 5 February 2009 and last night we held debates in this House about the permanent and hopeless conflict between the Tamils and the Sinhalese on the island of Sri Lanka.
Last night, Mr Tannock and Mr Van Orden argued for the complete opposite.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I agree with the motion for a resolution on the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Sri Lanka, and therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
In my opinion, given the emergency situation of an estimated 170 000 civilians who are trapped in the battle zone between the Sri Lankan army and the forces of the Liberation Tamil Tigers of Ealam (LTTE) without access to the most basic aid, an immediate temporary ceasefire by the Sri Lankan army and the LTTE is needed, in order to allow the civilian population to leave the combat zone.
I also believe that national and international humanitarian organisations should be granted access to the combat zone.
The agricultural lands of southern Europe are crying out in warning.
However, as I have also highlighted through the amendments tabled and accepted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I believe that this report must be applicable throughout the whole of the European Union.
As the rapporteur also emphasises, we not only need to recognise this problem of soil deterioration, but we also have to allocate the necessary financial resources to combat its adverse effects.
I am pleased that through the European Economic Recovery Plan EUR 500 million are being earmarked for actions involving adaptation to the new challenges of climate change.
I think that the European Union needs an integrated, financially supported action strategy to prevent and combat the effects of climate change, especially soil deterioration.
I voted in favour of the motion for a European Parliament resolution on the challenge of deterioration of agricultural land in southern Europe, because I believe that the common agricultural policy guidelines must include instruments aimed at combating the effects of climate change and protecting the soil.
However, we believe that the report should have gone further in attributing responsibility to the EU's agricultural policies and governments, such as those in Portugal, because it is these policies that have encouraged over-exploitation of soil and water and caused environmental damage.
We still believe that these problems can be overcome by breaking with these agricultural policies.
in writing. - (SV) This report, which does not form part of any legislative process, recommends, among other things, an EU forestry policy, a specific EU fund to finance preventive actions in connection with climate change and an EU-funded observatory for drought and the like.
I have voted against this report.
Climate change is accelerating the processes of soil deterioration and desertification, especially in the Member States in south-east Europe, including Romania.
I firmly believe that there are numerous examples showing effective management of soil and water and the use of resistant crops which can regenerate the soil.
The pilot project proposed for the 2009 Community budget is, in fact, an opportunity to do this.
Soil deterioration not only affects the lives of people living in the relevant regions, but also the potential for economic development.
The economic impact of this phenomenon is indisputable: a fall in the incomes of citizens who live in the affected regions, along with a rise in food prices.
This is the reason why the European Union has the obligation, based on the principle of solidarity, to contribute to the fight against this phenomenon and to supporting those affected by it.
This must be a flexible financial mechanism to help release funds in the shortest time possible, supported by a medium- and long-term strategy and action plans which take account of the varied impact of climate change on the EU's regions.
in writing. - It is important in this time of financial and economic crisis that we maintain and strengthen workers' rights to ensure that the costs of the crisis do not fall on those least able to bear it.
I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because I support this initiative which calls on Member States to devise cooperation mechanisms aimed at preventing the detrimental effects on families, especially children, of living apart from their parents and of the distances between them.
in writing. - (FR) This text on migrant children left behind in the country of origin describes a poignant situation of children left to their own devices or with more or less well-intentioned third parties, threatened with ill-treatment or subject to psychological problems or problems with their education, socialisation and so on.
in writing. - (FR) It is a known fact that Europe wants to take care of everything and be everywhere.
With this resolution on migrant children left behind in the country of origin, the European Parliament has reached the height of madness with proposals which are not only demagogic, but also aim at turning the Member States into the guilty parties.
in writing. - (SV) As the barriers across borders within the EU disappear, the opportunities to seek work in an EU Member State other than one's own increase.
I have therefore voted against this resolution.
I voted in favour of this European Parliament resolution to improve the situation of children left behind in the country of origin by their parents who have gone to work abroad.
We need concrete measures to ensure these children's normal development in terms of health, education and social life, and guarantee their successful integration into society and, later on, into the labour market.
I therefore agree that we must ask Member States to take steps to improve the situation of the children left by their parents in the country of origin and ensure their normal development in terms of education and social life.
I voted in favour of the motion for a European Parliament resolution on migrant children left behind in the country of origin as I feel that the situation of these children must be significantly improved.
I feel that we must support these children as they represent the future of Europe and the European Union.
in writing. - (SV) The June List is very positively disposed towards future enlargements of the European Union.
I voted for the resolution on the Croatia progress report for 2008 and I am delighted that this resolution has been adopted in the EP by a large majority.
I believe that the accession talks with Croatia will be completed by the end of 2009.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I do not agree with the motion for a resolution on the progress made by Croatia, and have therefore voted against it.
I voted in favour of the motion for a European Parliament resolution on Turkey's progress report 2008.
Given the slowdown in Turkey's reform process, the Turkish Government must prove its political will to continue the reform process to which it committed itself in 2005, towards a more democratic and pluralistic society.
You should have offered Turkey a privileged partnership, but to do so you would have had to admit that Turkey is not a European state and, thus, has no place in the European Union.
On 7 June, our peoples will have the chance to express their will to build a new Europe: a Europe of European nations, free and sovereign.
The first view, advocated by the former US president George W.
Before we get to that stage, the country must become a complete democracy, without political prisoners, without a prohibited media and without proscribed political parties.
The genocide of the Armenians in 1915 must no longer be denied, no more than the Germans can acceptably deny the genocide of the Jews between 1938 and 1945.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's report is much too weak in this regard.
Paragraph 45 of Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's report contends that the EU's accession negotiations with Turkey should be expanded.
The Dutch People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) has major objections to this.
In the VVD's view, Turkey has made too little progress in recent years and there is therefore no reason to speed up negotiations.
If Turkey has not complied with these by the end of this year, the VVD is of the opinion that the accession negotiations must be put on hold.
in writing. - (EL) I voted in favour of Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's report as a whole.
Both I and those I represent strongly support Turkey's candidature for the EU and not only because of the good relations between our countries.
I urge the EU Commission and Council to accelerate the negotiation process, which includes opening an Energy chapter, especially in the current climate of the economic crisis and bearing in mind the important role which Turkey can play through its contribution to Europe's energy security.
I also welcome the adoption in May 2008 by the Turkish parliament of the package of employment measures intended to promote employment opportunities for women, young people and the disabled.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I have voted against the 2008 progress report on Turkey.
Freedom of expression and freedom of the press, in particular, have suffered severe setbacks.
This is especially evident in the current behaviour of the Turkish Government towards the Doğan Media Group.
in writing. - While I support the main thrust of this report, I oppose the lack of balance on the particular question of Cyprus.
I strongly oppose Amendments 14 and 15, which are directed exclusively against Turkey on several questions, including the fulfilment of international obligations, and make no equivalent calls for action or engagement on the part of the Greek or Greek Cypriot authorities.
I called on the Council - as a preliminary step - to give practical effect to its commitment of 26 April 2004 to end the isolation of the Turkish Cypriot community.
in writing. - (EL) The Greek Communist Party voted against the motion for a resolution on the FYROM.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I have voted against the motion for a resolution on the progress made by the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in 2008.
This court has tried many war criminals but, at the same time, we must also bear in mind the broader significance of its decisions, such as its contribution to the process of reconciliation between the peoples of the Western Balkans.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which will ensure that all those who committed War Crimes in the former Yugoslavia will not escape justice.
These provide for the halving by 2015 of the proportion of people without access to safe drinking water.
However, the global financial crisis means that the Member States need to step up their support for the least developed countries, through public development aid and cooperation in adapting to and mitigating the effects of climate change.
It declares that, while water may be under public control, its management can be handed over 'partly or totally' to the private sector.
These experiments have already been conducted in several countries, particularly in Latin America, where prices have grown exponentially and quality has deteriorated.
It is also obvious that the public sector cannot alone come up with the World Bank's estimated USD 49 billion a year (up until 2015) to develop water infrastructures.
I voted against this resolution in the final vote.
I wholeheartedly back points 15 and 16 of the resolution aimed at supporting local public authorities in their efforts to implement a democratic water management policy that is efficient, transparent, regulated and respectful of sustainable development objectives in order to meet the needs of the population.
In the case of Romania, which has been granted a transition period in this area until 2018, it is vital that investments are speeded up, especially now when poor populations are the most vulnerable to climate change, as well as the least able to adapt to it.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the Fifth World Water Forum, to be held in Istanbul.
We have to focus our efforts in helping countries and communities in the poorest parts of the world have access to this resource.
The consequences for less developed countries are catastrophic.
in writing. - I support this Resolution which brings forward specific recommendations for the European Commission to strengthen its support for health services in sub-Saharan Africa and to review the balance of the European Community funding with a view to prioritising health system support.
I voted to adopt the Resolution on an approach to health services in sub-Saharan Africa.
This part of Africa will not be able to develop without a real improvement in the health of its population.
Often, the average life expectancy in individual countries is similar to that in medieval Europe.
This fact is painful, regrettable and frustrating, but it should also motivate developed and wealthy countries to provide more intensive and more effective aid.
There is nothing more human and, at the same time, European.
Let us save those whose lives are threatened.
in writing. - (SV) The rapporteur's depiction of human suffering throughout sub-Saharan Africa is a terrible reminder of how important it is to continue, and to intensify, the fight against poverty.
I have therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on EC Development Assistance to Health Services in Sub-Saharan Africa.
EC aid to the health sector has not risen since 2000 in proportion to overall development assistance, despite the commitments made by the Commission on the Millennium Development Goals and the health crisis in sub-Saharan Africa.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on implementation of the Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA).
Finally, I believe that the Commission, as stated in the proposal, should be called on to set a clear, appropriate and binding end-date, which date should not be later than 31 December 2012, for migrating to SEPA products, after which date all payments in euro would have to be made using the SEPA standards.
in writing. - The EPLP wishes to see the Single European Payment area a success.
We could not support this resolution in the final vote because these amendments were accepted.
Together they can encourage change and solutions at global level, for example by working closely to promote and implement the Development Goals in order to tackle poverty and economic and social inequalities at global level, by strengthening cooperation in the area of development aid, including triangular cooperation, and at the same time by working together to combat international terrorism, drug trafficking and crime.
Taking into account the central role played by Brazil in Latin American integration processes and the EU's interest in reinforcing dialogue with that region, and that the EU welcomes the initiatives taken by Brazil to promote political and economic integration between Latin American countries, we agree that Brazil deserves recognition as a main promoter of the recently established Union of South American Nations (UNASUR).
I voted in favour of this report.
Brazil was the last BRIC country to engage in a summit with the EU, which took place in July 2007 during the Portuguese Presidency.
It was therefore a natural reflection of the relations that Portugal has always maintained with Brazil.
As was said in this House in September 2007, Brazil is a country whose 200 million inhabitants speak one of the most common European languages in the world, Portuguese, and whose historical, civilising and cultural traditions have a close relationship with European traditions.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I have voted in favour of Mrs Koppa's report on the European Union-Brazil Strategic Partnership.
I voted for the proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the European Union-Brazil Strategic Partnership because I feel that this is beneficial to both sides and can contribute to the development of ties between these two entities with the aim of promoting the common good in both areas and throughout the whole world.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I welcome the report by Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra on an EU-Mexico Strategic Partnership.
in writing. - The EU needs to take a greater interest in the increasing violence in Mexico created by drug wars.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I wholeheartedly support the motion for a resolution on the 50th anniversary of the Tibetan uprising and dialogue between the Dalai Lama and the Chinese Government.
