We succeeded because we all share the strong conviction that cooperation in research lies at the heart of the successful knowledge society that we want Europe to be: a Europe that delivers growth and jobs and a good standard of living.
I would also like to acknowledge the hard work and good company of all the presidencies involved in the adoption of the programmes.
I would especially like to thank the Finnish Presidency for its constructive role in the final phase of the process.
The Commission accepts all elements of the agreement reached following the tripartite meetings.
The Commission has also issued a declaration on this.
Secondly, the strengthened focus on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, to which more than half the energy priority budget will be devoted.
I am particularly satisfied with the level of attention to be paid to energy efficiency in all thematic priorities.
The Commission has also made a declaration on this.
On the issue of European Union funding for human embryonic stem cell research, I believe we have agreed a very responsible ethical framework for a research programme covering so many different countries.
The Commission will fully respect and strictly implement this declaration, which I consider to be an integral part of the agreement on Framework Programme 7.
The exclusion of funding of this step of research will not prevent Community funding of subsequent steps involving human embryonic stem cells.
The agreement on ethics reflects a careful and responsible balance.
I now come to the seven Specific Programmes, which set out the details of the two framework programmes for research.
This is also thanks to the excellent work of the rapporteur, Ms Riera Madurell.
Let me just mention as an example of our strong cooperation the agreement reached on renewables and energy efficiency.
For the Ideas programme, the European Parliament's main concerns, as reflected in the amendments and discussed intensively during the tripartite meetings, have been taken into account.
On the Capacities Specific Programme, let me highlight some of those amendments that really improved the Commission's original proposal.
On the EC Joint Research Centre Specific Programme, I am glad to see that Parliament supports the priorities of the JRC as indicated in the Specific Programme.
Thank you to the rapporteur, Mr Guidoni, for his strong support for the Commission's proposal.
On the Euratom Joint Research Centre Specific Programme, I am pleased to see that the European Parliament and the Council support the Commission's approach and that the proposed amendments improve the Commission Proposal.
The Commission is very grateful to the European Parliament and, in particular, to the rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs and other Members of the ITRE Committee for their constructive attitude and strong commitment to reaching a good compromise with the Council, allowing the adoption of the EC Framework Programme 7 rules for participation at first reading.
Concerning the Busquin and Laperrouze reports, the Commission can accept all elements of the agreement reached between the European Parliament and the Council.
You have been very persuasive in convincing both the Council and the Commission in this respect.
Moreover, no additional guarantee or security may be requested from participants or imposed on them, which will particularly help SMEs and other small users.
Before concluding, I would like to come to a topic that concerns at least some of you, as indicated by the amendments tabled.
Legal entities established in the occupied territories cannot be considered as Israeli legal entities as defined by the FP6 rules for participation and the Association Agreement.
The Commission will be very vigilant in this regard.
Let me conclude by saying that I have really appreciated these 19 months of intense work and friendly collaboration.
I believe our cooperation bodes well for the implementation of the Seventh Framework Programme and for the continued development of ambitious research and innovation policies that Europe needs and deserves.
Yes, this evening and tomorrow at midday are truly important hours for Europe and European science.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I wish to mention that Mauri Pekkarinen, Minister for Trade and Industry, to whose field this Framework Programme belongs, will unfortunately not be here this evening owing to illness.
In particular, I also want to thank Commissioner Potočnik for his constructive input in taking the negotiations forward.
The outcome of the talks had meant a lot of work, considerable flexibility, and a genuine desire for compromise on the part of Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
With this in mind, I would like to mention that the Council in its common position adopted Parliament's amendment to the principles that steer financing for stem cell research under the Framework Programme.
It provides an excellent basis for Community measures in the area of research and development for the next seven years.
The Finnish Presidency is happy to see that there are packages of amendments to vote on, amendments that are based on the outcome of the trilogue negotiations.
rapporteur. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the vote on the Seventh Framework Programme will take place tomorrow.
As a result of excellent cooperation with the Council and of Commissioner Potočnik's remarkable personal commitment, for which I thank him, and also thanks to the technical support provided by the European Commission, a compromise acceptable to all was reached in October.
The Committee on Industry, Research and Energy coordinated the work on these documents in the European Parliament, and I must thank the committee very much for its work too.
The structure and main provisions of the Programme represent an excellent response by the Union to the recommendations made in the Kok and Marimon reports and to the European Parliament's proposals contained in the Locatelli report.
Everything will be based on the criterion of excellence in research.
There are also new and interesting proposals, joint technological initiatives, drawing on the financial resources of European industry.
If Europe exploits its human potential to the full, and in particular if it supports young scientists starting their professional lives, Europe will be in a position to spread its wings and prevent a brain drain.
In keeping with the Sixth Framework Programme, they are guaranteed a 15% share in research projects.
New technologies and innovation underpinned our amendments to this part of the Seventh Framework Programme as well.
In conclusion, I would like to turn to my fellow Members of the European Parliament and assure them that following adoption of the compromise amendments negotiated with the Council, the text of the Seventh Framework Programme fully reflects the priorities of the first reading.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate in Parliament this evening on the Seventh Framework Programme and the prospect of its implementation is undoubtedly a moment for us to rejoice.
It is an auspicious moment for the scientific community in particular, because this is, after all, the third most important programme of the European Union and one that enables the scientific community to take on a European dimension and motivates it to strive for excellence.
For my part, I would still like to raise two matters.
The first is the European Research Council, which is clearly an essential innovation in the field of European policy.
This will give Europe a far higher profile.
That is why we, along with Mrs Niebler and others, have devoted a great deal of attention to the way in which this European Research Council would operate.
Another point that seems to be crucial relates to joint technological initiatives.
It will therefore be very important for the Council, the Commission and Parliament to be able to carry out joint technological initiatives quickly in certain fields.
I should also like to point out to the House that we shall be voting on the specific programmes tomorrow too and that there are amendments on the table.
Legitimate amendments have also been tabled by Members.
I shall be very brief, because you, Commissioner, have already highlighted the points that are new in relation to the proposal.
That is quite normal, but it can result in excesses.
I am also thinking of the lowering of indirect costs to 60%.
Let me conclude by saying thank you very much for the work you have done, and thank you especially for making this Framework Programme possible, along with the rules of participation for the scientific community, through your capacity to engage in dialogue and through that of the Finnish Presidency, which has been excellent throughout this process.
Thank you again, and I believe that we shall be here in good numbers tomorrow to carry your proposals and our amended proposals without any problem.
Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to pay tribute to the excellent work performed by my fellow rapporteurs and, more generally, by the three institutions to pave the way for the rapid adoption of this research package.
The Seventh Framework Programme is the key instrument for the creation of a European research area in which the aim is to devote 3% of GDP to research.
May I also draw your attention to Amendment 88 of this report, for which some Members have requested a separate vote.
The aims of this report on the rules of participation are to provide European support for research activities in the field of atomic energy in the hope of undoing the technological locks in the nuclear domain and particularly of fulfilling the promise of fusion for future energy production.
The specific programme on cooperation must help to address social, economic and environmental challenges by focusing on areas such as health, energy or the environment and climate change.
The lengthy catalogue of amendments tabled by the European Parliament is akin, in some people's eyes, to a shopping list, and its very length indicates above all that a great deal of research is expected.
Let us bear in mind the place and role of the European Union in the world but more especially in the lives of its people.
The modern world moves at a very fast pace.
Lisbon 2000 was a ten-year programme, this being the time envisaged for the construction in Europe of a society of knowledge based on research and innovation.
Today we must however take note that progress has been slow, although Framework Programme 6 has signalled a significant positive shift in European policy in this particular strategic sector.
The People programme constitutes both the mind and the body of the entire legislative corpus: mens sana in corpore sano.
The positive experience of Marie Curie Actions has appropriately been revisited and will continue, breathing life into a project that aims for excellence in the form of added value: it will have an impact on the organisation of the European research area.
If we truly wish to motivate researchers, we must give them a cast-iron guarantee that their rights over the intellectual property that they have created will be protected.
The European Research Council, the ERC, needs to be a success if it is to attract leading researchers to Europe or to keep our own top European researchers here.
If it is to do that, it must be able to do its work independently; this is something that we in this House have repeatedly emphasised, and the Commissioner has also endorsed the idea in his outline.
We also saw it as important that the Research Council, when it starts work on 1 January 2007, should not become a closed shop, in other words, that it should be open and transparent and work in an open and transparent way.
At present, competition involves actors operating at a continental - or at any rate regional-continental - level, and clearly goes beyond the single Member State.
My insistence on this theme has been very kindly emphasised by the Commissioner: our collaboration has had some very personal and extremely important effects, which give one the feeling that for research purposes there must be widespread involvement by all business concerns, especially at European level, otherwise we shall not manage to reach our objective.
I should also like to recall in particular the need to acquaint our citizens more closely with science at a regional level, as well as something that for me has become an idée fixe during my first few years in Parliament: teaching people to evaluate risk as an instrument of political choice, by involving citizens in a sense of overall awareness.
As rapporteur for the Specific Programme 'Cooperation', I would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all of our fellow Members for their contributions, which have been crucial to the drafting of this report.
The Specific Programme 'Cooperation', with a budget of EUR 32 500 million for the next seven years, represents 65% of the total budget of the seventh Framework Programme, which is a significant increase on the previous Framework Programme.
In this regard, I would like to stress that our proposal offers considerable progress in terms of the organisation of mechanisms to guarantee the participation of SMEs in all of the Programme's actions.
A minimum objective of participation of 15% of the total budget has been set for them and the maximum contribution of all of the Community institutions, including the European Investment Bank, has been sought for the funding of projects in which SMEs participate.
These new instruments of technical and financial management and of participation in the Specific Programme 'Cooperation' required mechanisms for ensuring compliance with the criteria set for their constitution and transparency in the selection of priorities; they also required sound and efficient management.
rapporteur. - (ES) Thank you, Mr President.
Thank you, Mr Potočnik, for your open and cooperative attitude; thank you, Mr Buzek and all of the other shadow rapporteurs.
In this regard, we should welcome the support and the important work of the science sector and society in this programme, the financial strengthening of this field and the fact that the programme is being opened up to civil society organisations.
It is very positive that there should be financial support for renewable energies and energy efficiency and that it has been increased by 250%, but at the same time we regret that it is still only a third of the sum received by nuclear research as a whole.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have done it at last; the Seventh Framework Programme on Research is on the way, and, over the next seven years, the European Union will be investing a total of EUR 54 billion in research.
I would like particularly to thank all those Members with whom I have had the privilege of working, and in whom I had complete trust, as rapporteur on the Joint Research Centre's nuclear research activities over the past few months, and Commissioner Potočnik as well.
We have not, unfortunately, achieved all the things we set ourselves - we have not, for example, managed to double expenditure on research - but the marked increase - of 50% - in the budget in comparison with the Sixth Framework Programme is a step in the right direction.
I call on the Member States to invest even more money than before in research activities; for example, to avail themselves of the opportunity to invest money from the Structural Funds in developing research and development capabilities in their countries.
The creation of new research structures is not a function of the Seventh Research Programme, but rather a task for the Member States and the Structural Funds.
Before I speak about the specific programme for which I am the rapporteur, that is to say Euratom, I should like to express some thoughts about Framework Programme 7 and its specific programmes.
I must emphasise that this concern relates also to situations that have emerged, for example, in scientific bodies, who can be asked to tender under Framework Programme 7 even if they are founded on national legislation that is in breach of international law, by for example preventing people from certain ethnic and religious groups from engaging in research.
I believe that this is the problem on which the Commission must express a view.
ITER is a fundamental stage in the route towards the use of fusion energy.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. - Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs and my colleague in Committee on Budgets, Mrs Xenogiannakopoulou, for her thorough and insightful opinion.
The Seventh Framework Programme, as we have heard, is the biggest EU research programme to date and it pulls all the research-related EU initiatives under the roof of its EUR 53 billion programme.
However, we should not forget that this is a seven-year programme, not a five-year one like its immediate predecessor, and that its resources will be stretched across 27 Member States rather than the 15 and then 25 of the previous programmes.
Unfortunately, I do not think the Council actually believes this and it is a pity that it did not support the Commission's request for EUR 70 billion.
This policy area was revisited by the UK Presidency, which put forward proposals for increasing spending.
The launch of this programme presents us with a real opportunity to learn from and correct past mistakes.
In this House we are constantly talking about SMEs that we want to support, and they are the fundamental driver of growth in the EU.
In conclusion, let me remind the Commission and the Council that this programme is supposed to be for the benefit of the citizens and to promote scientific excellence across the European Union.
On the contrary, we should rapidly award funding to those in Europe who show real innovation and initiative and help them to discover new funding opportunities to increase our competitive advantage vis-à-vis the other areas of the world.
For this reason, I would strongly urge the Commission to put every euro this programme has been granted to the most effective use possible and ensure that there is a one hundred per cent implementation rate.
Finally, I would also call on our leaders in the Council to look beyond the EU borders and compare ourselves with other areas in the rest of the world and try and revisit this policy to increase resources sooner rather than later.
For such a provision to bear fruit, however, investment in human resources in the field of science and technology, and particularly in young scientists, needs to be seen as crucial and of the highest relevance if we are to achieve the Lisbon goals that we have set for ourselves in the next financial package for 2007-2013.
The aim is to succeed in getting not only new researchers to stay, but also many of those we have already exported to return, and to establish themselves in our old continent, which is trying to put on a new face.
In so doing, we are not only making a contribution to sustainable agricultural research and development, but are also helping farmers to implement the 2003 agriculture reform and change over to production systems that are competitive in international terms.
I should simply like to emphasise one point, namely the great importance attached in this Framework Programme to the relationship between science and society: we need only think of the steps proposed to promote equal opportunities for women in scientific research up to the most senior levels, the 'Youth' action programme, the relationship between citizens and science as well as between the education and training schemes inspired by humanist culture and the demands of scientific progress.
I want to emphasise that science - this is a truism - has intrinsic worth: it is not simply worthy in the utilitarian, productive and competitive sense, though these aspects are also important.
I believe that the EU, precisely at the moment when expanding its scientific activity means addressing new issues and aiming at quality, must also keep an eye on the rest of the world and not withdraw into itself: this is an essential part of its role.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, I feel rather humble in the presence of this galaxy of rapporteurs and draftsmen.
I understand some kind words were uttered earlier this evening and I should like to reciprocate by thanking the Commissioner, the Presidency and my colleagues, the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs, for their very constructive engagement in this project.
I share some colleagues' regrets that we were not able to persuade the Council to dig deeper into our taxpayers' pockets to increase expenditure on research.
I strongly hope the compromise package will be adopted tomorrow.
In conclusion, I should also like to thank another European Union institution, namely the Court of Auditors, for its contribution to the work on the rules for participation in responding to our invitation to give an opinion.
Despite that, only one country has invested more than 1% of its budget in research and development, and that country is Finland.
EU investment in research is more sporadic than that of the United States of America, even ignoring money used there for research into defence.
With the new Research Framework Programme, there will be new areas for research and new initiatives.
The belief that research disciplines itself and finds guidance only in itself and in its development is illusory and short-sighted.
But it would have been real proof that there was no desire to use embryos ad hoc for research in future.
We may have only 10, 15 or a maximum of 20 years to get out of a trap which will definitely cause bloodshed, wars, weather anomalies and diseases.
We have a deal on three issues.
The construction of new nuclear power plants in response to the needs of the European energy system, and also of plants generating electricity from wind, water and solar power will secure economic stability.
I think we can be proud of what we have achieved - the European Research Council, the search for excellence in different programmes - but I think it is necessary to state tonight that this is not enough.
As a shadow rapporteur I am proud of what we have achieved from our side.
We wanted to make it easier for SMEs to have access to research programmes, and we have achieved that.
We wanted to have better funding for SMEs, and we have achieved that.
We wanted to ensure that universities were able to get into the projects without losing money through indirect costs, and we have achieved that.
We wanted to free up opportunities to use intellectual property rights, and we have achieved that.
The Council must hear our message in support of yours, Commissioner.
Today we are reversing this position: it is said that the money is needed so urgently that there is no margin for further deliberation, and yet all that is needed is for the Council to accept the genuine interpretation set out in the two amendments that many of us have tabled.
I hope that these amendments will be accepted, at the very least in the specific programmes. (DA) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank my fellow Members and draw attention to some of the positive features of the Specific Programme, 'Capacities'.
New and specialised forms of research infrastructure are expensive, and it should therefore be possible for as large a number of researchers as possible to make use of them.
Secondly, I think it important that the programme appropriate resources to better integrate the dissemination aspect into research.
The under-representation of women in that world is well documented, especially by the Commission's own units for women and research.
Thirdly, I think it important not only that research staff and directors of research institutes should be exchanged between partner organisations in the Member States but also that the principle should be extended to include partners in associated countries and third countries.
The EU's framework programmes are open to a number of partner countries and, in the Seventh Framework Programme, the Commission wants to involve these countries to a greater degree than hitherto.
The Commission acknowledged this in its initial presentation of the financing it sought for this programme.
It must be said that the Council's response was very disappointing, not the first time under the Luxembourg Presidency.
However, we must also recognise that it is still not enough: EUR 50 billion is not enough for a seven-year programme for 27 countries.
At the very least, Member States need to work together much more constructively in terms of building that capacity, because it is crucial.
This should be accompanied by due recognition of researchers as a separate professional category, for we need researchers, we need to train good researchers, we need to keep our researchers and bring back those who have left Europe, and we even need to invite those from other countries who wish to join us.
In conclusion, we expect the European Commission to convey to us the fullest possible information on the monitoring of this programme. (NL) Mr President, since the research programme is a key component of the Lisbon Strategy, it is to be welcomed that more funds are being made available.
In the area of health, it is important to turn our attention to the neglected diseases and antibiotics resistance.
I can see evidence of these common investments, high-tech campuses and open innovation all over Europe.
It is not a 'brain drain' we advocate, but a 'brain gain'. (CS) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Buzek for his report and on the proposed amendments to the Seventh Framework Programme, along with other MEPs for their work on the specific programmes, in particular the specific programme for direct actions conducted by the Joint Research Centre (JRC), where I am a shadow rapporteur.
I hope that this process of breaking down administrative barriers will lead to the better exploitation of our potential for science and research in Europe. - (SL) I would like to mention the EURATOM programme.
The European Union will also provide financial support for research in the fields of nuclear fission and radiation protection in the years to come.
We have categorised nuclear energy as one of the vital resources for the reliability and sustainability of energy in Europe.
At this point, I would like to thank everyone for their participation in the setting up of this programme. (SK) I would like to express my appreciation of the fact that from the very beginning the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy has tried to adopt clear rules for participating in the 7th Framework Programme with as much transparency as possible.
I believe, Commissioner, that this House has thrown a rock into your garden, and we now hope you will be able to do something with it.
It is, then, a great success, but it is you who have the really big task of putting it all together. (HU) Mr President, one can only welcome the fact that the European Research Framework Programme has met its objectives and that the agreements have been concluded on schedule.
Applying strict assessment procedures and ensuring that information is made widely accessible may broaden the circle of those who are able to take part in these European projects.
I regret, however, that the Council and the Commission were rigid in refusing to guarantee that the non-refundable VAT would be accountable as a funded expense, although the Court of Auditors had supported our proposal and its rationale.
The rules of participation have thus undergone positive change, and this means great satisfaction and good opportunities for the researchers of the new Member States. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating the Commissioner and the Commission, for increasing the budget by 63% over against what it was for the sixth programme is a momentous achievement, and shows that the Lisbon agenda, through which we focused, is right.
It got the full support of this House and of the Council.
Since we are spending over EUR 50 billion on product policy, I would ask that we should agree on a budget for marketing and public relations, so that the simplification that has been achieved - this mammoth task that we have accomplished for Europe - may also be got across to its people.
Unfortunately, we have lost the bet, because the number seven would be really lucky - seven years, seventh programme, EUR 70 billion.
It is a major thing for Europe.
However, the framework programme is only the foundation on which we have to build.
Firstly, the area was launched in the same year as the Lisbon Agenda.
Secondly, in 2009 we shall be embarking on a new Financial Perspective debate.
We should come into this debate with strong potential and only if we truly have a debate about European research area behind us will we be strong enough to show clearly that all the messages I have heard today are the right ones.
Thirdly, when we talk about constitutional, institutional changes, we must be present at that debate.
When we talk about the famous 3% that we all have in mind, let us be clear that we have two major challenges.
When we talk about the developing countries, it is not money that is the problem, but the pace, because they are making rapid progress.
Those are the two challenges we have to face.
When we talk about 3%, we have to be clear that its composition is twofold: public financing and private financing.
In a way, since we can make decisions directly, it is easier to handle public financing.
So when we talk about our issues, these are the issues of all the governments, the whole Commission, the whole Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Written statements (Rule 142) The Seventh Framework Programme is not just another Framework Programme, as it has been designed in its content, organisation, implementation modes and management tools; as a key contribution to the re-launched Lisbon strategy by placing the emphasis on innovation and knowledge for growth and employment.
One has to acknowledge that there is indeed genuine European added value in bringing universities, research centres and clusters, industry, SMEs and other legal entities together to cooperate and participate in research projects around defined priorities within a unique management framework on a multiannual basis.
The fact is that concerns and questions remain, especially with regard to the participation of SMEs, where the access costs for participants and access to the risk-sharing finance facility still pose problems, with regard to coherence and the absence of confusion with other Community policies, with regard to the dissemination of knowledge, where quality and respect for intellectual property are issues, and with regard to the role of Member States in the governance of the programme.
