The role of the European Parliament is growing in parallel, as a result of both the positive experience of past years and also the rules of the new Constitution now in the process of ratification, and our borders have expanded to include 25 countries.
In a Europe with an unemployment rate of 9% and with 50 million poor people, we must convince our citizens of the importance that Community policies, the Lisbon strategy and the Gothenburg environmental dimension have on cohesion and competitiveness, which we believe to be complementary rather than the contradictory.
My ambition is to serve a Europe that grows ever more united.
I stand before you, Members of this House, and appeal to you to have confidence in me and cast your votes in my favour.
The question is an important one, given the extent to which the public image of the European institutions has become confused, if not suspect, and with good cause: how are people to find their way around the issue when, for all these years, votes from the left and right have systematically combined to administer the liberal economic model, or when Mr Blair and Mr Aznar, like their supporters in this House, have combined their efforts to support George W.&#160;Bush in his military adventure.
That too is what democracy is about. &#160;&#160; – Thank you to the three speakers for what they said and for not having exceeded their speaking time.
Number of voters: 700 Blank or spoiled ballot papers: 53 Votes cast: 647 Absolute majority for election in this ballot: 324 The votes cast for each candidate are as follows: José Borrell Fontelles: 388 votes Bronisław Geremek: 208 votes Francis Wurtz: 51 votes José Borrell Fontelles has obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast and is therefore elected President of Parliament.
As I said to you in my presentation, it is my political responsibility to do everything I can to ensure that the European Parliament is involved in the process of ratifying the Constitutional Treaty, particularly in the countries which are going to do so by means of a referendum.
Thank you very much to all of you. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I offer my most sincere congratulations to President Borrell Fontelles on his election.
Tough negotiations in which our common interests prevailed have enabled 25 countries to share their hopes for the future.
Mr President, I wish you and the new Parliament all the best in your work. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, you, Mr President, are now the elected President of the European Parliament and of all its Members.
I would like to express warm respect and high regard for Mr Geremek, whose life’s achievements I personally hold in the highest estimation – as does our group – and thank him for what he has done for Poland and for Europe.
Mr Wurtz, you are always, however, an honest partner to have, including in the Conference of Presidents, and I have personal regard for you.
In the last Parliament, which sat from 1999 to 2004, we in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats came to an agreement with the Liberals, with Mr Watson, with whom I have generally worked well, and I hope that I will continue to do so in future.
For that reason, we in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have come to this agreement with the Socialist Group, and we have given you our support.
Thirdly, let me say that we are proud that, after ten years, a Social Democrat – and what a Social Democrat – again presides over this House.
I am proud that the political family I represent gave the European Parliament a first-class President in Pat Cox.
I believe that he will be a hard act to follow and I wish you, Mr President, all the best in your term of office.
I would, however, like to put on notice the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
We had offered your group a different alliance, one which in our view was possible and could have had a majority in this Parliament.
Mr President, as I give you and this House my best wishes for your future work, allow me on behalf of my group to offer my esteem and friendship to Mr Geremek and to recall once more the example he has set and still sets for all of us and the whole of Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, having expressed our sincere gratitude to your predecessor, Mr&#160;Cox, we wish, in accordance with the forms and courtesies of this House, in turn to offer you our sincere congratulations on your election.
We shall now establish the order of precedence for the Vice-Presidents. &#160;&#160; – Just one question, Mr President: is there a minimum number that have to have a cross against them for the voting paper to be valid?
Again, is there a minimum number of names that have to have a cross put against them in order for the voting paper to be valid, or is it valid if you put a cross by 2, 3, 4 or 8 – or indeed any other number? &#160;&#160; Mr Friedrich, there is no minimum number of boxes to tick. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is regrettable that we do not have an opportunity to hear from the vice-presidential candidates, even though we have the right number.
