Situation in Gaza The next item is the President's statement on the situation in Gaza.
The European Parliament and I myself, during my visit at the end of May 2007 to Israel and the Palestinian territories, including the Gaza Strip, have repeated that message countless times.
The European Union is helping to alleviate distress with its humanitarian assistance, but its priority must now be to make a greater long-term political investment so that its financial generosity is channelled in the most strategically desirable direction.
At the donors' conference in Paris last December, where the European Parliament was also represented, the European Union pledged EUR 540 million for 2008 to support the process launched in Annapolis.
In two weeks' time, together with the follow-up group of the Paris donors' conference, comprising the French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner, the Norwegian Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner and Tony Blair, Special Envoy of the Middle East Quartet, we shall be discussing progress in the actual delivery of our aid.
Once again I declare our support for President Mahmud Abbas and Prime Minister Salam Fayyad.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us do everything in our power to back up our financial commitment with consistent political action so that we can contribute to peace in the Middle East and, above all, give our support to the people of the Middle East. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, in Annapolis, the Israelis and the Palestinians had a dream: a dream of two nations, each living securely in its own State with internationally recognised borders, after decades of conflict, grieving families and tragedy.
That is the only way out and yesterday, during the church service, we heard a Palestinian and a Jewish representative call for the same thing, peace for their peoples. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the analysis of the situation is concerned, I really have nothing to add to your remarks and those of Joseph Daul.
Without such a message there will be no peace. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the situation in Gaza is, first and foremost, a humanitarian disaster.
Businesses are bankrupt, jobs are almost impossible to find and the situation is worse than at any point since the Israeli annexation of the territory in 1967.
The Israeli soldier, Gilad Shalit, has been held prisoner since June 2006, and I believe some 11 000 Palestinians languish in Israeli jails.
We wish Egypt success in its mediation talks, but we are convinced that the cycle of violence, which most recently led to 56 deaths in Gaza on 1 March 2008 and eight deaths in Jerusalem on Saturday, cannot be broken by violence.
Annapolis promised peace within 10 months, but many of us believe that, once again, Israel is trying to de-legitimise every interlocutor.
We seem to be getting further away from a two-state solution - whether it is the rocket attacks on Ashkelon or whether it is the 530 new settler homes just announced in Givat Ze'ev, near Ramallah.
This Palestinian rocket fire has been going on, moreover, since 2001.
Prior to 2006 it was rare for there to be more than 50 rocket attacks on Israeli territory each month.
It means that more than 250 000 Israeli citizens are now exposed daily to Palestinian rocket fire from the Gaza Strip.
The accusation that Israel is using disproportionate force in response to this deadly threat conveniently overlooks the brutal tactic used by Hamas and other Palestinian terror organisations of launching their rocket attacks from bases in residential areas.
