I would also like to thank you, Madam President.
To make it worse, younger and younger women are contracting the disease: just in the last few years, the number of women under 40 affected has doubled.
Breast cancer is still the number one cause of death in women between 35 and 55.
However, I am also shocked at how radical treatment still is in many Member States.
This is particularly true in the new Member States, where the missed opportunities and deficiencies throughout the chain of care are at their worst.
If we had an EU-wide breast screening programme, we could save the lives of 31 000 women in the EU a year, help to reduce healthcare costs and substantially reduce subsequent costs for the whole of society.
To date, though, only 11 countries have a quality-assured screening programme, and these programmes are a long way from being continuous.
In Cyprus, too, Mr Kyprianou, progress is still very sluggish.
We would also ask you to draw up guidelines for the job description of breast nurses, who have a very important role to play in these centres, as guides and mediators between doctors and patients throughout the treatment process. (Applause) Thank you, Mrs Jöns.
author. - (SV) Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Jöns for her great commitment and for having got to grips with this tremendously important issue.
I know from my own country, Sweden, where breast-screening has been available for many years to women in certain age groups, that such screening has reduced the death rate amongst women and that it is important to detect the disease early in order to provide the right treatment.
There is constant progress in terms of research and development and procedures for treating breast cancer.
It is, rather, something to which all of us - both men and women - must be committed. (Applause) author. - (DE) Madam President, I am grateful to you, Mrs Jöns, for allowing me to co-author this question with you.
Information and communication are the main tasks for the future, including with regard to this terrible disease, and I would therefore ask both Commissioners to exert all their political influence to convince the Council and to establish guidelines.
I think the idea of developing a job description for highly qualified nurses is an excellent and interesting one, and I pledge you my full support. (Applause) author. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again gathered in plenary to debate an issue which affects both public health and the lives of women and families in our constituencies: breast cancer.
Already in 2003, the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality had asked a question on this subject to the European Commission.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality is concerned with reducing mortality rates among women affected by breast cancer, improving their quality of life, and providing women and their associations, but also their close families, with information on the risks and treatment of breast cancer.
Breast cancer is a public health issue that is important for all women in the European Union.
It would be useful to compare the levels of increase across the Member States, in order to come to a conclusive strategy.
The medical industry is not prepared to make an effort in terms of finances; it is too concerned with making profits.
The efforts of politicians, doctors and scientists in developing the network of cooperation in all the Member States could enable us to ensure equal access to the means of screening and health care.
Every year, 270 000 women are diagnosed with breast cancer in the European Union.
That affects their lives and the lives of their families and it has a very significant medical, social and economic cost.
It is true that the resolution set out some ambitious targets for the Member States to reach by 2008, notably a 25% reduction in mortality and a reduction in differences between breast cancer survival rates in the Member States to 5%.
The Commission will therefore produce an implementation report in 2007.
There are already signs that the resolution and other actions have had positive effects and started to make a difference.
We expect progress on aspects such as the exchange of best practice models to facilitate application in different parts of the EU and the guidelines for screening diagnosis, delivering some very significant reductions in breast cancer mortality.
As regards detection, research is focusing notably on improving breast cancer screening and alternatives to conventional mammography, in order to improve early detection.
Early detection is, of course, crucial in ensuring successful treatment, but that is still treating the disease rather than the causes.
The European Parliament's 2003 resolution has been an effective part of an ongoing campaign to increase awareness.
They and their families depend on the priority we and the Member States will give to such an important and serious problem.
The treatment is arduous and lengthy, and often stops sufferers from working or leading a normal life.
Support for employers and colleagues could play a crucial role during treatment.
The European Directive of November 2000 provides a general framework for equal treatment in employment and prohibits discrimination on the grounds of disability.
They need support, they need decent healthcare, they need protection against discrimination, they need to be reintegrated into working life under the best possible conditions.
Honourable Members, I think that you can rely on us in this matter. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, we have heard a list of all the things we need, and what the House is saying is that we need action to achieve those things.
The most common cancer among women is breast cancer.
But, as we have heard, it is a particular ordeal for the 275 000 women who contract the disease each year and, tragically, the 88 000 women who die of the disease each year in the European Union, and their families.
Another pressing issue is the fact that an increasing number of younger women are developing breast cancer - 47% under 55 years of age.
The European Commission published a new set of guidelines on breast cancer screening and diagnosis in April.
They estimated that 32 000 breast cancer deaths across Europe could be prevented.
We also need to make sure that those diagnosed with breast cancer are not discriminated against in the workplace, as we have already heard.
We must also have an exchange of best practice, particularly as mortality rates vary by 50% between Member States.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, we have before us an excellent motion for resolution, which talks a great deal about better prevention and treatment for breast cancer.
New studies have confirmed that harmful environmental factors in the form of toxic chemicals or increased radiation are responsible for half of all cases of breast cancer.
In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, we initiated a move towards greater health and environmental protection in Europe.
As you know, the mortality rate is higher in the ten new Member States and screening programmes are very 'kindergarten', to coin a phrase.
I include my own country in this which, as you may know, has a pilot rather than a national programme.
What we need is a strategy for cancer as a whole, which coordinates all 25 Member States, and to stop sucking on the sweetie of subsidiarity, with the result that no money is granted from the Structural Funds in order to develop these programmes.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Madam President, I wholeheartedly support this question to the Commission from each of the three committees on what I regard as a most important topic.
There is a need for more extensive research on the causes of breast cancer, in particular on the effects of hazardous chemicals and the environmental pollution, nutrition, lifestyle and genetic factors.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Madam President, the alarming statistics on women suffering and dying from breast cancer certainly call for a resolution calling on the Commission and the Member Sates to combat this epidemic and conduct breast screening.
Therefore, I am here to inform you of the 'Don't Let Us Die' initiative conceived on 20 October.
The European Parliament enacts regulations on nature protection, European motorways are being built, but investment in health is overlooked.
Therefore, everyone should be exerting more pressure to ensure that spending on prevention is not crowded out by other priorities.
We should approve a budget that provides for investing in prevention, which means not only fitting out hospitals and purchasing mammographs or sonographs, but above all investing in human resources so that a sufficient number of health professionals are available to operate this equipment. (ES) Madam President, I would like to draw attention to something that has already been said.
I should also like to express my appreciation for Europa Donna, which I should like to thank for the excellent work they are doing in making it possible for European countries to learn from each other, which is exactly what we should be doing. (FI) Madam President, the number of cancer cases will grow dramatically in the years to come as the European population ages.
This is often important for patients as well.
Finland is one of the European countries in which breast cancer is becoming common fastest, but thanks to screening and treatment, the mortality rate has not gone up for decades.
We need to do something about this. (PT) Madam President, as we know, breast cancer is not only the most common cancer in women, it is also the biggest killer of women between the ages of 35 and 59.
These deaths are unacceptable given that we know that early detection can cure this cancer.
Research must enable us to make progress in finding the causes of breast cancer.
The Commission needs to present us with some proposals in this regard, and I really do think that the European Union should make the fight against breast cancer, and against cancer in general, a political priority, because together we will always be stronger.
Breast screening, which according to the WHO can reduce deaths from breast cancer by up to 35%, is offered on a nationwide basis in only 11 Member States.
The repercussions which it has on the organisation of personal, family, social and productive life have already been pointed out.
The 'Europe against Cancer' programme, in conjunction with all the other facilities offered by the Structural Funds, research programmes and so forth, must respond to these challenges.
This is particularly important for the new Member States, especially as we are about to welcome another two new members to 'our family'.
We need to support their work, especially in the new Member States, and to provide the opportunity for exchanges of best practices and added value for the benefit of the health of our citizens. (DE) Madam President, I would like to extend my warmest congratulations and thanks to Mrs Jöns, who is not only the main initiator of today's motion for resolution and of the question, but also works tirelessly to raise awareness of the issue of breast cancer.
That of course means that there will be huge support for this motion for resolution tomorrow.
Breast cancer is the number one cause of death amongst women aged between 35 and 59, amongst both mothers and women without children.
Every year, 88 000 women and 1 000 men in the European Union die of breast cancer.
Breast screening can considerably reduce mortality from breast cancer amongst women aged between 50 and 69.
That is why we are eagerly awaiting the progress report that Commissioner Kyprianou announced for 2007.
As the coordinator of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, I have been working on this topic for many years, and we have gained a great deal of experience.
The Committee for Women's Rights and Gender Equality presented an excellent report in 2003, but very little has happened since.
As over 20 years of experience in the United States have shown, interdisciplinary breast centres can provide very efficient assistance.
Let us therefore work together, here in the European Parliament, to fight against the trauma of breast cancer, and do so for everyone, not just those who can afford it. (PT) In spite of the progress that has been made in diagnosis and treatment, breast cancer is still the main cause of death among women of between 35 and 55.
It is estimated that in Europe alone breast cancer kills more than 130 000 women per year.
Every two and a half minutes a woman is diagnosed with breast cancer.
Screening programmes, using mammography, should be mandatory in all Member States.
The prevention and treatment of breast cancer should also be among the priorities of the Seventh Research Framework Programme, especially at a time when studies show that, as well as genetic factors, environmental and lifestyle factors can also play a part in the development of breast cancer. (DA) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, breast cancer is the most frequent cause of death of women aged between 35 and 50, and the number of women who survive the disease varies greatly from country to country.
We must call on the Member States to set up centres to provide information and advice on hereditary breast cancer, and we must call on the Commission to present a progress report on the matter every other year.
It is important for priority to be given to breast cancer research.
The EU's Seventh Framework Research Programme should, therefore, also appropriate resources for research into breast cancer: not only into its physiological and technical aspects and into alternatives to conventional forms of treatment, but also into its social consequences and, especially, into its causes.
The EU should head European campaigns to prevent the disease and to inform women as to how they can examine their breasts.
Moreover, the individual governments should introduce national breast-screening programmes in all the Member States, because early detection of breast cancer can significantly reduce mortality rates. (PL) Madam President, the statistics on cancer in the European Union are alarming.
In the European Union, a new case is diagnosed ever two minutes and a woman dies of breast cancer every six minutes.
The best way of combating breast cancer is through regular screening and promoting effective diagnosis of the tumour.
European Union provisions laying down standards in this area have been binding for 15 years.
Nonetheless, about half of the countries in the Union are not implementing regular screening programmes.
This must change.
There are no prizes for model countries in this field, nor are there penalties for those which do not make progress.
This debate, though, has, for the first time, put the spotlight on a completely new angle, that being the question of how to deal with women with breast cancer in the work environment and their reintegration into the labour market, and calls have been made for a campaign to make employers aware of these issues.
I should like to respond to a few specific points very briefly and then make one general comment, which will cover the issue raised.
We expect to have guidelines for cervical cancer by next year, for prostate cancer by 2008 and for colorectal cancer by 2009.
We are also working on other areas such as the hepatitis B and C viruses, because we know they cause liver cancer, as well as aspects such as tobacco, obesity and other causes of cancer.
We shall be working on that, in relation not just to breast cancer but to all the inequalities that unfortunately still exist in the European Union, within Member States as well as between Member States.
This is not the European Union of solidarity that we all aspire to and have all joined.
The money is there, but unless spending on health is adopted as a priority by Member States, there is nothing we can do.
I welcome the fact that other issues have come to the fore in the debate, including social issues, showing that the circumstances of this disease extend beyond exclusively medical factors, and touch also on the fight against discrimination in the work place and in society as a whole.
I should like to thank Parliament in general, because I firmly believe that if we manage to maintain the same level of determination and political will to resolve this issue, we really can resolve it, directly or indirectly.
The debate is closed.
