State of play of SIS II (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the oral question to the Council on the state of play of SIS II, by Mr Coelho, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, and Mr Lax, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe - B6-0010/2009), and the oral question to the Commission on the state of play of SIS II, by Mr Coelho, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, and Mr Lax, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe - B6-0011/2009).
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in the European Parliament we clearly support the rapid entry into operation of the SIS II (Schengen Information System), which should have occurred in 2007.
The Council and the Commission decided to set a period of four months in order to try and solve the persisting problems, albeit without any great success, as can be seen from the results achieved in December 2008 when the tests were repeated.
I have no objections to the alternative technical scenario of the evolution of the 'SIS I for All' system to SIS II, provided that the legal framework approved for the SIS II is fully respected.
Mr President, SIS II, as we know, is a very important tool for ensuring the security of the Schengen area, especially following the enlargement to include the 10 new countries.
It was through the press that we learnt that all the tests required to launch the central system in complete safety had failed in December 2008.
At their informal meeting of 15 January 2009 in Prague, Justice and Home Affairs Ministers were informed by the Commission that the outcome of these tests had been less than satisfactory.
It was also agreed that measures would be taken at a subsequent JHA Council, which took place on 26 and 27 February 2009.
This examination will be carried out as soon as possible and at the latest by the Council meeting on 4 and 5 June 2009.
On the basis of the report requested from the Presidency and Commission, the Council will, at the latest by its meeting in June 2009, discuss the calendar for entry into operation of SIS II.
This will take into account the provisions on time schedules set out in Parliament's resolution of 24 September 2008 on the draft Council regulation on immigration from the Schengen Information System - SIS I+ - to the second-generation Schengen Information System - SIS II.
This was incorporated into Article 19 of the Council Regulation of 24 October.
The Commission's main contractor for developing SIS II has performed a series of operational tests on the central system running interactively with some national systems.
Between November and December 2008, the results of these tests led us to conclude that the central system had not achieved the level stipulated in the contract.
The objective of this plan is to bring the implementation of SIS II up to a satisfactory level of stability and performance.
The aim of the plan is, firstly, to fix the known bugs linked to the central system - some of the bugs have already been fixed - and, secondly, to verify that the implementation of SIS II is not suffering from insurmountable structural weaknesses.
The Commission has also introduced a global approach to the management of the project so that the central and national components of SIS II can be better integrated, in accordance with the competences legally established by the Commission and the Member States.
The current difficulties facing SIS II were discussed at the informal meeting of the ministers on 15 January and at the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 26 and 27 February.
I also wish to say to Mr Lax that the problems with SIS II do not affect VIS.
The problems with SIS II do not involve the infrastructure that it shares with VIS.
I undertake here and now to keep Parliament abreast of all of these developments.
The entry of new Member States to Schengen on 23 December 2007 was a great event for the citizens of those states.
However, we do have problems with technical matters, the solution of which is growing into a political problem, as my colleague Mrs Roure said.
No - the system must be operational as soon as possible.
I should first of all like to reply to Mr Marinescu by saying that there is no particular problem, given that the Member States that are not yet members of Schengen will be able to join in the SIS II system too.
We shall have several 'slots', or times, when new Member States that are not Schengen members will be able to join in SIS II, and so, all being well, there should not be any particular problems.
Therefore, it has to be said, SIS II has had to meet increasingly sophisticated objectives.
The Commission's total budget commitment for the SIS II project amounts to about EUR 68 million.
That, then, is the commitment: EUR 68 million.
As far as payments are concerned, EUR 27 million have actually been spent to date on technical development: EUR 20 million on developing the system; EUR 7 million on providing a network that is at the forefront of technical progress; and EUR 4 500 000 on quality assurance.
