New EU action plan for Afghanistan and Pakistan (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the new EU action plan for Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Many of our countries have troops and significant numbers of civil personnel in the country.
There will be no solution to the conflict in Afghanistan if we do not also get to grips with the situation in Pakistan, and vice versa.
The plan is based on our current commitment and lays down a number of priorities.
In so doing, we are strengthening our commitment and presenting a united response to the challenges faced by Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The regional perspective is important, which is why the action plan places great emphasis on regional cooperation in particular.
Other NATO countries and allies have promised an extra 7 000 personnel at least, in addition to the 38 000 already there.
There can be no lasting military withdrawal from Afghanistan unless a civil framework for stability is in place.
We are making a long-term commitment to Afghanistan.
We are also prepared to support an Afghan-led rehabilitation process for former militants.
The 2008 elections re-established democracy and civilian rule.
At the same time, the Pakistani Taliban has become a real threat to peace and stability in the country.
The EU wants to help support Pakistan's civil institutions.
That is why we are working on the civil state, the fight against terrorism and trade.
This will also be brought about through economic development and trade.
We are at an important point in our relations here.
Our future support must help build a government that is responsive to the needs and the concerns of the Afghan people.
As the situation is volatile, we need to both work with, and to influence, the situation on the ground.
The Commission is raising its development assistance by one third to EUR 200 million.
The action plan agreed by the Council in October gives us the opportunity to do this.
We are already assisting the government to improve the skills of administrators in Kabul.
That will help us to build a coherent approach that can serve as a model for elsewhere.
The action plan is backed up by a substantial financial resource of just under EUR 500 million from the Commission until 2013, plus a EUR 100 million renewable energy loan from the European Investment Bank, as well as commitments to deepen our trade and political relations.
The action plan also makes clear that the European Union will use its expertise in regional integration to help Afghanistan, Pakistan and their neighbours to kick-start economic relations, particularly with India.
The potential gains from this kind of regional cooperation in terms of trade and investment would dwarf anything we can do as the European Union.
In conclusion, implementation of the plan for Afghanistan and Pakistan is central to our future engagement in these countries.
The action plan provides us with the opportunity to use this experience to help others, and I hope Parliament will support it.
Afghanistan is no longer a safe haven but the Taliban insurgency has not been defeated because it was proven that victory cannot be achieved by military means alone and that over-reliance on military power by killing insurgents was counterproductive.
The shift in strategy is for the protection of the population, building the Afghan security capacity, facilitating good governance at central, and particularly local, level, and promoting development.
The EU Action Plan addresses all these challenges, and the EU can play an important role in non-military areas.
Madam President, Minister, High Representative, ladies and gentlemen, with this debate, the European Parliament is seeking to contribute to the discussion on the role of Europe within a region that is crucial to the safety and stability of the entire planet.
However, in order to ensure that this new course is productive and sparks a transition towards a safe, prosperous, stable and therefore self-sufficient Afghanistan, it is very clear that the military dimension of the intervention by the international community must be accompanied by growing commitment on the civil and political front.
On the one hand, we must promote economic development and strengthen the institutions, governance and the rule of law and, on the other, we must facilitate the process of internal reconciliation and help to stabilise the situation in Pakistan.
This is where the European Union's place and role lies.
Europe has been considerably committed in the region for some time: EUR 1 billion per year in Afghanistan, EUR 300 million in Pakistan, the EUPOL mission, which is doing an invaluable job despite its staffing problems, the international observation mission and also, naturally, the commitment of individual States to the ISAF mission.
The European Parliament is ready to offer its support to the action of the European Union on all these fronts.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, we are here to deal with the EU plan of action for Afghanistan and Pakistan.
We need a new strategy - or maybe we just need any strategy at all - on the civilian side because, until now, the EU intervention in that country has not had enough coherence and seems to have had a very limited impact.
I believe Parliament must contribute to making this strategy stronger and more coherent.
The Afghan GDP is just EUR 6.9 billion.
Our civilian aid therefore amounts to more than 20 percent of the yearly Afghan GDP, a figure that has the potential to reverse the destiny of the country if properly used.
The Afghan police were described to us recently as basically cannon fodder for the Taliban.
The regional approach is important, and I look forward to hearing how we are going to deal with other areas of real tension, such as Kashmir, which the Afghan Ambassador told us the other day really provides a problem for everything that people try to do in the region.
The threat posed by Pakistan, particularly by harbouring terrorists, to India over Kashmir also poses a grave threat to the whole region.
It would therefore have been logical to change strategies, and we regret that President Obama has opted for a military solution, and intends to deploy an additional 30 000 troops.
In Afghanistan, history has demonstrated that there can be no military solution.
Yet the UK pays GBP 45 million a day into this corrupt institution.
Some of that money could be better spent in arming our forces in Afghanistan, forces that actually train the Afghan police force, etc.
The report says 'Insecurity in Afghanistan cannot be addressed by military means alone'.
It is a murderous, pointless war that simply cannot be won. (ES) Madam President, the international community, and not just the United States, has a problem in Afghanistan.
President Obama has taken three months to establish a global strategy in response to General McChrystal's alarming report.
Finally, allied to this, Member States must ensure that EUPOL recruits the 400 officers promised; this is absolutely necessary to ensure Afghanistan's own law-enforcement services can do their job properly. (FR) Madam President, I should like to make it clear straight away that I totally disapprove of the remarks that Mrs Sinclaire has just made against Mrs Ashton.
A new combination of all these elements will - it must be hoped - result in a more promising outlook for Afghan citizens.
The militarisation of humanitarian aid and development aid must stop because it is creating confusion in people's minds and discrediting the NGOs.
I believe the European Union could make a useful, practical contribution, but this needs to be set in the context of the wider, international effort and it should be focused on some specific activities where EU involvement might add real value.
In a document of over a dozen pages, I found only four brief references to the United States and, more significantly perhaps, only one to NATO, and it is after all the NATO ISAF mission which is central to the success of all endeavours.
On the civil side, European countries and the EU itself have pumped EUR 8 billion into Afghanistan since 2001, but this huge sum seems to have made little difference; do we have any idea how much of it has gone astray?
There needs to be a comprehensive international plan for Afghanistan and Pakistan, but I have yet to see where the EU contribution fits into this wider, international commitment. (DE) Madam President, today, after eight years, we all essentially know that the previous Afghanistan strategy based on military force has failed.
The third point is that the security situation has significantly deteriorated.
Secondly, a dialogue must be established with all the insurgents, and note that I did not say 'with the Taliban', because the word 'Taliban' is very restrictive.
To conclude, I strongly condemn the French Government's decision to forcibly repatriate Afghans who have fled the war in their country. (DE) Madam President, if there is one thing that we really do not need in the bitter reality being experienced in Afghanistan, it is pretentious speeches.
If so, how can it be that we still do not even have the 400 police officers in place?
In the countries in which we have carried out election observation missions, I believe that it is only right that we incorporate the recommendations into our specific policies towards those countries.
In the response to this debate from the Council and the Commission, I would like the joint strategy for these two countries to be explained more clearly, as we have to acknowledge, for example, that we have a thousand kilometre border in this region that cannot be controlled properly on either side, while the policies that we pursue on one side of this border will have direct effects on the other side.
It is hoped that the additional 30 000 US troops will create a situation in which responsibility could be handed over to the Afghan forces by 2011 when the US withdrawal will commence.
The question, then, is: supposing adequate security is either not achieved by 2011 or deteriorates again after the US pull-out, will the EU, already involved in state building, be ready to take over the task of providing security too?
Ladies and gentlemen, President Obama's decision to increase his military contingent by 30 000 troops is very recent.
What is at stake in Afghanistan is not only the prosperity and freedom of Afghans, but also the stability of the region, including such an important country as Pakistan.
In order to succeed, though, as has also been said, we need the support of our own citizens.
We must explain that our compatriots in Afghanistan are in serious danger, but we must also stress the importance of the mission there and that failure cannot be an option.
We are now in 2009 and exactly that has happened.
The Taliban governs de facto 80% of the country and the US military leadership as well as the European defence ministers are saying that this war cannot be won by military means.
It is therefore very right and necessary to have a combined approach to Afghanistan and Pakistan here, and also to include what was ultimately said in connection with India.
Our continued presence and the achievement of success in Afghanistan depend greatly on a political and military approach that is shared at international level and aimed at a regional approach on the ground within both Afghanistan and Pakistan.
In this sense, the new European Union action plan represents a significant step in the strengthening of security and in the delicate process of capacity building where democratic institutions, human rights and socio-economic development within the region are concerned. (PL) Madam President, I think the European Union action plan is going in the right direction, because our assistance must concern two areas.
Through our new foreign affairs role, High Representative, will we be speaking to Pakistan's neighbours to encourage them to do all that they can to help Pakistan through this difficult time?
We cannot win in a territory whose population considers all of us who are there to help as occupiers and the Taliban as so-called freedom fighters.
The quantitative and qualitative problems that it is encountering are mainly due to the link with NATO and, in order to be effective, we must solve them as quickly as possible.
My question concerns Pakistan, the chronic instability of which is, as we all know, a factor in the crisis for the entire region and for Afghanistan, too.
I believe that the European Union's strategy must counter the growing prospect of chaos and violence through strengthening the military presence and making it more effective, as well as through stepping up the efforts for reconstruction, development and democratisation in Afghanistan.
Secondly, stability in Pakistan and the entire region, including India - this is a second, key challenge - and thirdly, the need to build civil society.
I want to say that, today, the number of children attending school in Afghanistan has risen from 700 000 to 7 000 000, and in relation to this, one of the key matters facing Mrs Ashton is, in particular, the need for effective financial aid to build civil society in Afghanistan. (DE) Mr President, perhaps you would allow me, as a member of the Iran Delegation, to just make one brief comment.
Mr Kasoulides: the action plan takes the regional perspective as its starting point.
It is absolutely central.
In these areas, Afghanistan and Pakistan will need our support for a very, very long time to come.
I would say to Mr Danjean that EUPOL is a very important element in our cooperation and the most important element for the Afghan Government as regards civil police work.
We have increased the workforce by 280 international personnel.
We regret that the Member States have not been able to provide the 400 personnel that we require, and we are currently calling for further contributions because we want the Member States to be involved.
The EU's support is long-term and enduring, and it must be sustainable.
The London Conference on 28 January is the next significant milestone and will raise issues of security, governance, and social, economic and regional development - very important issues.
In Afghanistan, it is seeking to stabilise its presence even further, both independently, with the EUPOL policing mission in Afghanistan, and within NATO, with the development of the European Gendarmerie Force.
They must step up their fight against the plans of all the imperialists, in order to shake off the yoke of occupation in Afghanistan and the area as a whole.
Romania currently has 1 020 soldiers stationed in Afghanistan whose involvement in guaranteeing peace and stability is unanimously appreciated by our allies.
The situations in both countries are closely linked and success in one depends on the other.
The European Union must continue its partnership with Pakistan and help this country in its battle against extremism and terrorism, as well as with regard to commercial relations and promoting human rights.
We must, however, lend them a hand and, in particular, we must not take it away before time, when they need it the most.
The EP resolution of 2008 describes this situation accurately but it must be said that the optimistic assertions are out of place.
In the current situation, a strengthening of the military presence and further transfers of financial resources and teams of experts is completely nonsensical.
In particular, important measures are: training of police officers, military personnel, people employed in the justice system and teachers, as well as combating the production of and trade in drugs.
This will enable stabilisation of the social system in Afghanistan.
Undoubtedly, it is also necessary to increase the military and police contingent and redouble efforts in the areas bordering Pakistan, to prevent the flow of arms and drugs between the two countries.
In a word, military and police action should be accompanied by civil measures: support in establishing the structures of an Afghan state and development aid.
