Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 19 December 2002.
Mr President, I would like to make a proposal to the Liberal Group that they withdraw this proposal and that the whole House should ask the President to make a statement on its behalf, addressed to the speakers of both Houses of the US Congress, expressing our pleasure at the decision of the Governor of Illinois.
The reason is very simple: in Europe we are abolitionists and this is an issue which is even proposed as one of the Copenhagen conditions.
Our colleagues in the US Congress are aware of our position, and it would be very difficult for my group to vote against the Liberal Group's proposal for procedural reasons, since we agree with it.
This case concerns some bad news - 26 Congolese people have been sentenced to death for the assassination of Laurent Kabila.
Brussels part-session, January 2003 Wednesday: I have received from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance a request for the inclusion of a Council and Commission statement on North Korea's withdrawal from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
The information brochure from our very own Parliament is being attacked by the chemical industry, by CEFIC.
The international community must act on this issue immediately.
It has also particularly benefited the United Kingdom in relation to the social agenda, in particular the role of women, where the women's cause has been furthered in the United Kingdom, largely due to European legislation.
Mr President, I would like to point out that the dialogue between the governments of the different Member States must be the main tool for resolving problems, especially in the case of neighbouring States.
Mr President, I represent an Atlantic coastal region in France, and therefore in Europe, which has just been affected by the pollution from the Prestige.
Mr President, I wish to bring what might appear at first sight to be a more prosaic matter to the House's attention but which relates, I think, to the way in which Parliament conducts its public relations and tells European citizens about how it works.
The reason why these violations of human rights outrage us is that a European woman is involved.
With regard to reproductive cloning, I am sure we all agree that this is an inhuman or dehumanising technique that must be rejected.
Mr President, it is on the initiative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the European Parliament is, for the first time, addressing the issue of the role of regional and local authorities in European integration with a specific report and a motion for a resolution.
They should therefore feel involved in the preparatory work on the Union's policies and acts too.
To this end, the motion for a resolution which is now to be put to the vote in the plenary session of this House contains important proposals: the inclusion in the new constitutional framework of the principles of respect for regional and local identity and, therefore, of the application of subsidiarity, not just in relations between the Union and the Member States but where regional and local authorities are concerned too; committing the Commission, not least on the basis of its White Paper on Governance, to involving the representatives of regional and local authorities in the preparatory work on its proposals; calling upon the Member States to promote and enhance - each in accordance with its own constitutional system - the participation of regional and local authorities in the Union's decision-making process.
I have therefore not proposed in my draft report to subdivide regions or local authorities into different categories.
Never before has there been such great economic disparity within the European Union and, at the same time, furthermore, never before has a genuine cohesion policy been so crucial.
There will be cultural and political diversity, but also territorial diversity.
As he said, we shall hold a sitting specifically devoted to this subject within the Convention on 6 and 7 February.
It is not, therefore, the role of the European institutions or the Commission to propose, or even less, to decide, in Brussels, how competences are to be divided within each country, or how relations between territories should be organised within each Member State.
In this area, which I am familiar with because it is my responsibility within the Commission, both the Commission and Parliament will have a great deal of work to accomplish together in the months ahead, before I present, at the end of this year, the Commission proposals for future regional policy after 2006.
For example, how can we confer important, individual rights on these regions, while not all the current and future Member States are organised in this way?
The regions must be able to count on the European Union to involve them systematically in all stages of the European decision-making process.
The European Union, for its part, must be able to continue to count on the constructive, loyal cooperation of all the territorial authorities: the regions, of course, but also towns, cities and subregional territorial structures.
The European Union's regions are significantly handicapped in their cohesion and in their development as democracies by the continuing under-representation of women in decision-making processes.
It is vital to work towards the development of new social policies, and this includes, in particular, assessing support for equal treatment and its implementation.
Mr President, this is an important issue, as Commissioner Barnier has pointed out, since the European Convention is going to hold a debate on this issue on 6 and 7 February.
We have therefore presented an amendment, No 21 - I believe we have reached an agreement with the Socialists - to bring together our Amendment No 21 with the Socialist No 5 in a compromise amendment, which I believe takes us in the right direction.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate our rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, for having dealt with such a complex issue and brought us together around a compromise position which, on all but one or two little details which still need to be settled, can command the overwhelming majority of this House.
The Treaties have always conferred certain rights directly on citizens and therefore on the way that citizens are governed within Member States.
Nonetheless the Union must recognise the fact that many of our Member States are organised internally in a way that gives substantial responsibilities to regions and other subnational authorities.
It is therefore right that we should look, as this report does, at how we should adapt to that reality, that we should recognise it in the Treaty, that we should provide for better consultation and information of the regions, that we should make fuller use of Article 203 of the Treaty where appropriate, and that we should give proper consideration to the views of the Committee of the Regions.
Regions should be able to bring a case either via their national governments or via the Committee of the Regions.
The nations, and above all their governments and parliaments, must be the link between the local, regional and European levels.
Of course the countries we represent are regions in the technical constitutional sense.
In many cases these are the local and regional authorities.
As a person who has always encouraged the promotion and safeguarding of lesser-used regional languages, I am pleased that this has been included in the report as a proposed amendment to Article 151 of the Treaty.
It is by embracing our cultural and linguistic diversity that we enhance the understanding of Europe, its diverse peoples and its many different regions.
Linguistic and cultural diversity is not about defining or redefining boundaries; it underpins the cultural strength of our enlarging European Union.
It has become more focused in its opinions and it has to be further recognised.
The citizens of Europe are always reaffirming their demands for a Europe that is much closer to them and this should not exclude the level of governance closest to the people.
With one of they regions, we will be off like a long dog, and then our citizens can all take a fuller part in the integration of Europe'. 'What's a Luxembourger?' says my mate.
Mr President, the Napolitano report on the role of regional and local authorities in European integration has a number of good points - and one major fault: it should not exist.
According to the principle stated in the report itself, which the Community has obeyed since its beginnings, the European institutions are based on a Union of States; they respect the internal structure of the States; their only interlocutors are the States and, where regions are involved in certain European policies, it is because the States, and behind them their national democracy, wanted this and because they are in charge, and must remain in charge, of the process.
It is difficult to imagine the European Union maintaining direct relations with 250 regions or more, or listening to all their opinions.
We must correct this in the following way: firstly, the regions must be consulted at every stage of the legislative procedure in the European Union; secondly, we must urge the Member States to allow them the greatest possible participation throughout the European decision-making process in each of the States, including at the level of representation within the Council of Ministers; we must also increase the role of the Committee of the Regions and allow the regions to be able to act within the framework of the principle of subsidiarity.
If somebody has to apply and transpose legislation in accordance with this principle, then logically they must also be able to defend their prerogatives and rights.
By whatever means, the important thing is that the Napolitano report, in the form it is in today or the form it will be in, probably, after the vote in the plenum, will recognise the right of the regions to defend their prerogatives before the Court of Justice - this is the fundamental thing - and also to apply the policies of the Union, in a more effective manner, within the framework of Community law, as the Socialist Group's Amendment No 5 states.
The Spanish Socialists voted in favour of the Napolitano report in committee and we will do so again tomorrow because it represents a step forward.
This means that the result will only be achieved if subsidiarity is not just applied to relations between the Union and the national States but is extended to the territorial authorities - the regional and local authorities - with all due respect for the constitutional systems of the respective countries, of course.
The existence of the European Union is resulting in the power of the governments of the Member States growing in comparison with their national parliaments and their regions.
The Napolitano report, in which the regional and regional governments [sic] are protected against large-scale centralist thinking and actions, is therefore an indispensable contribution to democracy and peaceful coexistence in Europe.
Mr President, all candidate countries except Turkey have adopted during the last two decades special policies to improve the situation of minorities, in some cases even through the implementation of self-determination to the benefit of several stateless nations.
The European Union itself, on the contrary, lacks a comprehensive approach to the issue of stateless nations.
Having previously served in local government, I regard the Napolitano report on the role of local and regional entities in European integration as a significant step towards getting Europe's feet firmly back on the ground.
After all, the officials and politicians in the European Union are spending much too much time in the corridors of supranational power and are forgetting that Europe is really made up of four governmental levels: local, regional, national and European.
I think that Mr Napolitano has made a number of very good proposals for improving the involvement of regional and local entities in the European policy process.
I am referring here to the participation of the regions involved - both in the draft phase and in the execution phase of the policy - the appropriate application of Article 203, the possibility for the region to ask the Committee of the Regions or their own government to go to the Court if they think that the principle of subsidiarity has been violated, or to take action, and finally to develop a statute for border regions.
A statute of this kind for border regions could make the lives of many Europeans who live on both sides of the borders every day quite a bit easier and more pleasant.
I hope that as a result of this report, the Convention will actually bring Europe and the regions closer to the people and we will anchor the region firmly in a new European constitution.
And it is these legislative powers which must allow these regions, these territories, to have the right to bring cases before the Court of Justice when their competences are encroached upon.
This is a real difficulty, yes, but it must inspire us and it must not prevent us from seeing the wood for the trees and from finding a valid architecture so that all the institutional elements, all the existing democratic public powers, can find their places in the common Europe.
It must be obligatory for the governments of the constitutional entities to participate in the meetings of the Council when issues are being dealt with which affect their exclusive competences, as in the case of taxation in the Basque Country.
The Napolitano report attempts to define the role of local and regional powers in the Union's decision-making process.
I do think that the constitution has to give everyone who possesses a right, the additional right to approach the ECJ in Luxembourg, a right that 380 million Europeans are meant to be given by the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
This diversity must also be reflected when it comes to the right to appeal to the Court of Justice.
As proposed, for example, in the report, they can play an important role in terms of evaluation and follow-up, as well as seeing to it that the principle of subsidiarity is applied.
We cannot solve internal constitutional conflicts in this Chamber, but we must give a clear signal that we attach great importance to local and regional levels and specify this in the treaty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the core of this debate on the role of the regions in the European structure is the necessary acknowledgement in the European constitution that the European Union does not only comprise states but has a more complex composition.
The report by Mr Napolitano has arrived at an opportune moment, a few weeks before the debate on this in the Convention on 6 and 7 February.
It means in practice that, for example, the three historic nations of the Basque country, Catalonia and Galicia, would more or less be denied access to the Court of Justice by the centralist powers in Madrid.
It would be a good idea - as I pointed out in an amendment to the Napolitano report - to ask the Convention to guarantee the inclusion in the European Constitution of the famous paragraph 2 of Article 299 of the EC Treaty, which deals with the special application of Community provisions in the outermost regions of the European Union.
There is, in fact, undeniable tension between the supranational and regional dimensions: tension which is historical, for the more European development has tended towards the supranational, the more - I regret to say - we have lost sight of the fact that, within many States, regionalisation processes were developing with characteristics and approaches to decentralisation which were different from what we were developing in the European Union.
We have witnessed a complete lack or only relative participation of the regions in the Community decision-making processes.
I say this with an awareness of history and of the fact that the European Union's present constitutional arrangements have, to an enormous degree, come about as a matter of coincidence, so that, if I am from little Luxembourg, I can of course oppose the right of appeal - and quake in my boots when I do so - but am in a quite different position if I am from the Basque country or from some other region.
The matter is being debated in many of our countries, and in particular in my country, France, but not only there.
Each State must remain master of its internal organisation, both at institutional and territorial level.
That is laid down in the Treaties in their current wording and we must retain both the spirit and the letter of the Treaties.
No country can claim to have a better system than another.
No country can impose its system on another.
Mr President, I would like to ask you if you would be so kind as to ensure that our Amendment No 24, which has not been distributed with the other amendments to the Napolitano report, is made available to all the Members of this House for tomorrow's vote.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Human rights are universal, indivisible and interrelated.
The human rights discourse is by definition global.
The European Union's human rights policy is therefore only credible if human rights violations at home are measured against the same yardsticks as failings elsewhere in the world.
The European Parliament speaks out against specific human rights problems elsewhere at every session, and correctly places great store on human rights in discussions about the candidate countries.
We must also be willing, however, to regard serious human rights violations in one or more Member States as a European matter and to ask ourselves what the European Union as such can contribute towards improving the situation.
That is why the recommendations in my report are not only aimed at one, several or all the Member States; they are also aimed at the Commission and the Council where applicable.
In my opinion, the time has now come for this problem to be placed on the agenda of the European Union and for an extensive investigation into these abuses to be carried out at the very least.
The Commission and Parliament itself should in fact also be able to answer this question.
The European Parliament's Annual Report on the situation of fundamental rights in the Union is an important instrument in terms of due regard being given to these rights, both at European level and at the level of every Member State, either within the current Union or in a Union of 25 Member States.
The Commission has always been equal to the challenges Parliament has set for it and I believe that we have together taken up these challenges in a positive way, in order to develop fruitful cooperation between the two institutions in this field.
This network will enable both Parliament and the Commission to remain vigilant and to ensure that the Charter of Fundamental Rights is complied with and given due consideration.
By the same token, this network will be obliged to provide Parliament and the Commission with information on the sensitive issue of the balance between security and freedom in the context of the fight against terrorism, an area that will receive particular attention in the report that is currently being drawn up as part of the network's work.
To this end, I should like to recall that placing fundamental rights at the heart of European integration means defending the thesis that the Convention on the Future of Europe and the subsequent Intergovernmental Conference must include the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Constitutional Treaty of the Union and give it binding legal force.
The European Union is an area of freedom, security and justice which fails to provide a rigorous protection of fundamental rights.
At the same time, however, a pragmatic and effective assessment must be made of the quality of protection of fundamental rights.
This report, the debate in this plenary and Parliament's final resolution will certainly make a major contribution to the Commission's actions over the next year in the field of fundamental rights.
There are three points therefore: drawing up a procedure, which I shall come back to; establishing resources, either parliamentary resources or external resources which could help us, without replacing us, however, which would be available to the network of experts; and the call for joint action, in other words, in fact, to work with the three rapporteurs, namely those from the year underway, the previous year and the following year, so that a consensus might be established, provided that this work concerns facts and is therefore not, a priori, too controversial.
The whole Charter, therefore, and nothing but the Charter, in other words the articles as they are and not as we might like them to be; this Charter was subject to a consensus and I should point out that the report upon which we are going to vote tomorrow has absolutely no effect on the Charter, since only a new Convention, which would have to be convened, is able to change the articles of the Charter.
There are other means of action, resolutions, on occasion, directives, etc.
The charter should be a good instrument for measuring them.
We can also dispute a number of the wordings and examples, but I believe we can probably learn from the work in time for next year's report.
We do not therefore agree with the basic criticism made of the report.
We require many other countries to comply with the demands concerning fundamental rights.
We all agree about the importance of doing everything in our power to combat those who would use violence and terrorism to damage the foundations of our society.
We Liberals also welcome open discussion of the inadequate conditions in many EU prisons, as well as of action by the police.
My own country too is criticised in this report.
If we cannot agree on anything else, we ought in any case in this Assembly to be able to agree that all children require additional protection.
Let us perhaps look at what happened at the weekend in the United States as evidence of the fact that opinion forming can in actual fact also be effective.
The report points out quite correctly that seven Member States are failing to comply with the principles of the European Social Charter, for example in relation to access for foreigners to employment, their rights of assembly and trade union rights.
As the rapporteur for the Committee on Social Affairs also says, there is a tendency to restrict social and economic rights within the context of reforms of the labour market.
I hope that in Conclusion 9, where we refer to the Commission's decision to review its own legislative proposals against the criteria of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Commission will be more rigorous in this than some Member States.
We welcome many of the recommendations in this report, particularly Conclusion 5, where we are looking at this report being incorporated in future into an early warning system on Articles 6 and 7 of the European Union Treaties, picking up petitions we have also had in the Committee on Petitions.
Any layperson can, however, see that the violations of human rights that take place here and also the human rights themselves that have been violated are of a different order from those taking place elsewhere.
If the European Union were to get a constitution of its own, this would at most be able to supplement the national Member States' own constitutions.
The review framework and the review process already exist.
A perfectly proper journal.
Allow me to say, however, that the magistrates of the Court of Appeal in Lyon, in sentencing Jean Plantin, have passed a judgment which - at the very least - fails to honour our fundamental freedoms and which will go down in the annals of history as an example of the unacceptable thought-policing denounced by one of our greatest journalists.
This situation is absolutely intolerable, as is the withdrawal of the university degrees awarded to Jean Plantin over ten years ago.
Mr President, the protection of fundamental rights is undoubtedly one of the driving forces of the current evolution of the European Union.
Therefore the proclamation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, in December 2000, was an unprecedented event in terms of the recognition of a Union which is increasingly close to the citizens and sensitive to their needs.
The European Parliament, an institution which is particularly sensitive to the issue of protecting our citizens, had no hesitation in making it the key element of its annual report on respect for fundamental rights in the Union, the aim of which is to assess the degree of compliance with the rights contained in the Charter in any particular year.
I must therefore unfortunately say that my group will be obliged to vote against the report, since it is impossible to support a text which is not suited to its purpose or the continuity set by its predecessors.
I have only just arrived in the Parliament because of delays.
It is very important, particularly when we are urging the applicant countries - and indeed countries which are not yet applicant countries - to address certain issues, that we should be prepared to look openly at ourselves.
The United Kingdom, along with many other countries within Europe, has many applicants for asylum, and there are large numbers of people on the move, seeking to migrate from one country to the other.
The report contains references (at second hand) to prison facilities in the United Kingdom and indeed in other Member States.
For the most impoverished, however, and even for the working-class majority of the population, these are hollow words.
We endorse the content of the report and, above all, the courageous approach the rapporteur has adopted in naming, giving specific, practical details, the States which have violated human rights or have not signed or ratified international conventions on the protection and safeguarding of human rights.
Of the many issues raised in the report, as this debate shows, there are two which are particularly important and sensitive.
The other issue which the rapporteur has courageously highlighted is the recognition of same-sex marriages.
As other Members have pointed out, it will be necessary to pay greater attention to the Commission and the Council's work in the area of human rights.
We radical Members condemn the fact that, all too often, the failure of the European institutions to take action in the field of respect for human rights, both in third countries and the countries of the Union, has serious, catastrophic implications for the citizens and for the institutions themselves.
Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty on European Union, and what is known as the democratic clause too, are now completely devoid of meaning, thanks, primarily, to the Council and the Commission.
To put it more simply, the principle of respect for human rights and the safeguarding of human rights are wholly theoretical.
Once again, as regards Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty, the European Parliament has, for the first time, used the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure to call for Community measures to be taken against Italy for the serious, ongoing violation of human rights and the rule of law with reference to the ongoing, unlawful failure to establish the plenum required by the Constitution, by the Italian Parliament and by the Constitutional Court.
Every year approximately 2 500 people exercise this right, which is 7% of those liable.
The reason why in Finland the period of time spent doing non-military service is longer is that those concerned are obliged to work eight hours a day, during a normal working week, whilst those doing military service are on duty 24 hours a day.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in making out that it is a champion of human rights, the European Union tailors them to its needs.
It has no problem, for example, defending the rights of homosexuals, but has nothing to say about the right to a job, to health care, to an education, to culture or to sport.
The European Union's version of human rights is set out in the so-called Charter of Fundamental Rights which the Communist Party of Greece has denounced as inadequate and misleading.
The report measures human rights against this charter, which is why there is not the slightest reference to the slavery introduced with new forms of work and to the decimation and commercialisation of social benefits.
It has no objection to the plethora of new terrorist laws and it ignores the personal electronic files kept by the Schengen system and the fact that ideas which upset the system are passed over, distorted or even expelled and persecuted.
The good thing about the report, however, is that it identifies a whole series of infringements, such as the torture of prisoners, trafficking in human beings and the suppression of rights in Genoa.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of today's debate lies in Article 6ยบ of the Treaty of European Union itself, which states that the Union is founded on the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, principles which are common to the Member States.
Whilst containing aspects that deserve our support, such as the issues of terrorism, trafficking in human beings and human rights and the highly topical problem of achieving the necessary balance between security and human rights, the report we have been presented with this year , however, gives way in some points to demagogy and generally shies away from the rigorous principles which a resolution adopted by the European Parliament should uphold.
I shall not insult you by citing the various conventions and treaties that we must observe or by restating our will to anchor the Charter of Fundamental Rights unconditionally in European consciousness in order to establish the rights and freedoms of these European citizens.
We must confirm, here in Parliament, that the defence of fundamental rights and freedoms in the European Union is more than just words; it affects every aspect of life, for all human beings, wherever they may be, whether or not they live in an area of freedom.
It is our role to act if this situation does not satisfy us, so that these fundamental rights might be a fact of everyday life in our own Member States.
I shall end on two points: first, I am very happy that economic and social rights are assessed at European level and I believe this Convention should take inspiration from that.
Mr President, in common with the EU Member States, the European Parliament has a responsibility to defend human rights and fundamental freedoms and rights.
The Convention should reflect upon these issues.
Data protection and the right of access to documents are included in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The time is now ripe for citizens' right to information under Article 255 of the Treaty to be made more specific.
In conclusion, the European Parliament has an important role to play in issues relating to human rights and fundamental freedoms and rights.
I hope that the Convention consolidates this role by creating a democratic system of decision-making and a right for people to go to court and, in certain cases, obtain damages if their rights have been infringed.
My own country, Sweden, has, for example, been singled out in connection with a high-profile death in which the actions of the police, prosecution service and coroner have been sharply criticised.
We must therefore emphasise very clearly that all European citizens are guaranteed certain rights in legal processes in all the EU countries.
It is a modern slave trade, and we must ask ourselves how that trend can be stopped.
I am concerned about the fact that many EU countries accept various forms of prostitution.
We did not consider any of these issues when we started discussing human rights and holding the annual discussion on human rights.
Since the Treaty of Amsterdam, then the Treaty of Nice and possibly as part of the Convention, we do in fact have more opportunities to give Member States a good ticking off if they make mistakes, and even to kick them out of the Community.
The European Parliament would then win the confidence of the Council, for example, with a view to communitisation.
The Council, the people, the Member States and the parliaments of the Member States must know that we are using our powers in the proper manner.
She has selectively presented a list of areas which are not only deeply controversial politically - for example, in their view of the family and of family legislation - but also demonstrably do not belong among the European Union's areas of competence.
The first concerns the ban on women pilgrims entering Mount Athos in Greece.
This ban has been in place for 1200 years and is enshrined in the Treaty of the European Union and the Greek constitution.
Mount Athos is home to 5 000 monks and it is their right to receive whomsoever they please in their home, just as it is our right, as simple citizens, to receive and offer hospitality to whomsoever we want in our home and keep out anyone we do not.
In choosing to give, in the explanatory statement, a lengthy and detailed description of possible breaches of fundamental rights by some Member States, this report has led to claims and accusations against these Member States that cannot be refuted and have not even been submitted to a democratic vote because they are not included in the text of the motion for a resolution.
Mr President, I believe that the European Parliament must responsibly assume its powers for safeguarding human rights and should never confine itself to simply transcribing the opinions of third parties.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I want, therefore, to express my gratitude for the close cooperation, which has seen all parties united in a concern for security.
We must at long last give tangible effect to Article 7 of the Convention applying the Schengen Agreement.
It would be desirable - and, in terms of increased efficiency, an overall objective - for data to be exchanged between the Schengen, Europol and Eurodac systems, with, of course, all necessary data protection provisions being adhered to.
It is my hope that all this agreement will give us the necessary stimulus to at last bring about in reality what we owe to the public - a greater degree of security even when enlargement has taken place.
Parliament will give its full support to the endeavours of the Commission and the Council if they go down this road.
We might also say that the two documents, the Commission proposal and the Council action plan, contain a great deal of common ground.
I believe that, in fact, the four fundamental objectives that were set for us at Laeken form part of this action plan: increasing mutual trust between the Member States with regard to controlling our external border, which is a common border, which means that poor control over the border in one State has inevitable knock-on effects on the security of all the other Member States of the European Union, the effectiveness of the fight against illegal immigration, the particular priority that must be given to controlling the external borders to prevent the entry of terrorist groups or agents and, finally, to safeguard the high level of internal security in the European Union, without which we cannot preserve freedom of movement and the abolition of controls at our external borders.
The fourth objective is to define a common risk analysis model for controlling our external borders.
As a result of the functioning of this new body at European level it has been possible to develop, as early as in 2002, two practical operations.
The first was the operation 'Ulysses', which was coordinated by Spain and involved joint teams from various Member States on controlling the Mediterranean; and the second was the operation of a joint team led by Germany to control its land borders.
These two operations were, in 2002, funded by the ARGO Programme and new actions for operational cooperation have already been presented for 2003.
The Commission presented an initial evaluation of the financial situation.
The signing in 1990 of the Schengen Agreement and the abolition of controls at national borders have made controls at the external borders even more important in preventing threats to our citizens' security from entering the Community area.
The growing threats from terrorism, organised crime, the trafficking in human beings and from drugs and illegal immigration have moved to the top of our political agenda and have become a core concern of our citizens.
It is a matter for some regret, however, that our external borders continue to constitute a weak link in the overall system, which endangers not only the effective protection of internal security but also the full implementation of the principle of free movement.
This situation takes on even more significance as a result of enlargement, when the new Member States will gradually take over the task of ensuring security at the external borders, with a considerable proportion of responsibility being transferred to those countries.
These common measures must also contribute to solving problems that we are seeing today, in the level of transposition of the Schengen acquis at the current external borders with regard to the type and practices of border control, which differ between land and sea borders, with regard to who is responsible for border management, which varies from Member State to Member State, even resulting, in some cases, in the duplication of competences and, finally, with regard to the use of different technologies that are sometimes incompatible and hamper the achievement of a uniformly high level of security.
Mr President, I would also like to congratulate Mr Coelho.
To guarantee this free movement requires a high degree of trust and cooperation between the Member States, particularly in the management of external borders.
I agree with the notion that there is room to better guarantee both the freedom of security of those people who are in Community territory and the situation of those who wish to pass through it.
It is a very topical subject, as has been pointed out, if you consider that the Union's current external borders will be radically changed and extended in May 2004 when the 12 new Member States become part of the political and geographical structure of the current European Union.
However, the problem is everybody's problem, not just the problem of these States, for, thanks to Schengen, an illegal immigrant who succeeds in penetrating the Adriatic coast has automatic access to many other Member States, at least those in the Schengen Area, which therefore have a major responsibility as well as a great opportunity.
Mr President, I echo the thanks of others to the rapporteur, the Commission and the Council for bringing this forward and recognising the need for further cooperation in this field, a very difficult area.
My own country, the United Kingdom, consists of one large island plus the north of Ireland.
Other countries each have their own circumstances that need to be addressed: Greece, for example, has some 400 islands, and Luxembourg is land-locked.
Mr President, when Commissioner Verheugen reported to the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on the subject of eastward enlargement, I put two questions to him.
Poland's border with its non-EU neighbours is over 1 200 kilometres long and runs across fields for the whole of its length.
Any European concept of external border control must, at the end of the day, be enshrined in the Treaties, both by the allocation of combined powers to the EU and, on the other hand, by giving it institutional form as a European body in parallel with Europol and Eurojust.
The debate is closed.
Specifically, in relation to its examination of the human rights situation, my report, like previous ones, will be based on the structure of the Charter and will highlight certain points which I will treat as my political priorities.
