I understand that the first point of order ever raised in the directly-elected Parliament in 1979 was by the Reverend Doctor Ian Paisley and his point was that the British flag was flying upside-down.
I am advised that it is the most popular flag to be stolen in this place.
Mr President, last year, the majority of MEPs in this House voted in favour of Friday morning sittings.
I am therefore using the time available to me to make this statement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Regulation No 302/93, the amendment of which is the subject of this report, establishes and regulates the operations of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction.
In the meantime, new figures have come to light, as a result both of its operating experiences and from the so-called "independent assessment report" , published this March, and even as a result of developments in the Union itself, in its acquis and in the challenges it faces.
As the recent report on the assessment of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction emphasised, that institution has made an enormous contribution to European drugs policy, as it has filled in the gaps in our information and knowledge about this issue.
The same report concluded that the Monitoring Centre has undertaken an impressive number of projects since its inception, and these have provided added value for the European fight against drugs.
The work undertaken on synthetic drugs has stood out for its efficiency and timeliness.
The committee took into particular consideration the 1999 report on the Centre' s work and the difficulties encountered, and the outcome of the interinstitutional conference on drugs which took place in Brussels late last February.
We believe that the agreement on the participation of Norway in the work of the Centre, which, we hope, will pave the way for other enlargement initiatives, provides a major opportunity to revitalise the activity of this technical and scientific body, for the EMCDDA must become an increasingly important reference point in the development of a European policy to fight the illegal sale and distribution of drugs which are harmful to the health of the citizens of our countries.
The drugs policy will only be effective if the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction is accorded a fundamental role.
The independent assessment of the activities of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, the conclusions of which were published in March 2000, is very specific regarding the serious mismanagement of the board of directors and of the REITOX network, which gathers information on drugs and drug addiction.
I therefore join the rapporteur in arguing in favour of the idea of a real reform of the Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, in respect both of the way it functions and of expanding its activities.
I also believe that if we fail to take this opportunity to amend the regulation with a view to relaunching the Centre' s work, we run the risk of creating further problems when it comes to incorporating the applicant countries in this work.
Mr President, we are examining two proposals for partial revision of the working procedures and methods of the Lisbon Drugs Monitoring Centre, in particular two proposals on relations with the candidate countries and Norway.
This is therefore our chance - for the contents of these proposals are not in themselves revolutionary for the Centre - to discuss the role and usefulness of the Centre in terms of its function, which should also be our function, of providing political indications and assessments and adopting decisions and initiatives on drugs, although the European Union' s powers in this area are severely limited.
The Commission must present a proposal for reforming the procedures which are described as bureaucratic and tedious and, above all, failing to focus on the scientific function of the Centre.
Unfortunately, his amendments overshoot the mark by a long way in some respects.
I am unhappy about adding Turkey to the list of candidate countries that are eligible for support from the EMCDDA.
According to the report, it would then become a data bank without a critical dimension.
Mr President, as one of the longest-serving Members in the House my memory goes back right to the first committee of inquiry into drugs in the Community on which I had the honour to serve.
We all too often have a tendency in Parliament, I am afraid, when we cannot to do anything more concrete, to set up another institution.
That makes us feel good but does not actually change anything.
So it is appropriate that we look at the work of this observatory in Lisbon at this stage.
I take this opportunity to say to my dear colleagues from all parties in the Netherlands: your policies have tended to become like a honeypot for the criminal element in many of the accession countries.
The observatory in Lisbon cannot work effectively without very close relationships with the Europol agency in The Hague.
There is an element of hypocrisy here, because half the House voted against having stronger measures on tobacco advertising and - I choose my words carefully - there are many Members in this House who are regular users, to different degrees, of alcohol, which is a very powerful drug.
For the work of the Monitoring Centre in Lisbon to be effective, Member States have to cooperate fully.
So we cannot exclude one country because we do not like it very much: we have to open our doors to as many countries as we can and encourage the work that is being done.
On the other hand, however, both the rapporteur and the Members have stressed that this occasion calls for reflection upon the way in which the Centre operates and upon the results it has produced in recent years, and I feel that we cannot say we are satisfied with its performance up until now.
The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, established 7 years ago, is an important tool for collating comparable data from the Member States.
At least two main criteria must be met if we are to achieve this objective: first, we need reliable assessments of the measures taken and, if they are efficient, we need to implement them, not only in the Member States, but also in the candidate countries, the rest of central and eastern Europe and in any third country with the right legal framework under relevant agreements.
It is important that the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, in the context of the positive climate that exists in Parliament with regard to drugs, also acquires sufficient resources for its anti-drugs activities outside the European Union.
There are two comments I would like to make.
Mr President, the fight against drugs is one of the most important tasks we have as citizens and politicians.
I say that notwithstanding the fact that some of your amendments go further than our proposals, particularly when it comes to the improvements proposed for the functioning of the Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction.
The Commission agrees with Parliament that the functioning of the EMCDDA must be improved.
The agreement is also of significance to the European Union, because, as everyone knows, the drugs problem knows no borders.
Five out of the 22 amendments in the Sousa Pinto report relate directly to this issue.
If that happens, we would have to abandon a PHARE project costing EUR two million, intended to help the candidate countries in Eastern Europe to set up or reinforce national centres with the aid of technical assistance from the EMCDDA.
It would not be possible to carry these funds over after 31 December 2000.
Lastly, these amendments introduce the idea of compiling a report on the functioning of the EMCDDA every three years.
In accordance with Rule 69, the rapporteur can ask, if Parliament so decides, to postpone the vote and the matter will be deemed to be referred back to the committee responsible for reconsideration.
I would point out to you that Article 69 stipulates that this procedure takes place without debate.
These are two aspects of a fascinating world, which clearly requires protection, but also requires flexibility.
The directive states that the Member States must be able to strike a balance between the Community right and copyright.
I would point out that copyrights last for as long as 70 years in a number of States.
Thus, if we were to add the 25 years to the 70 years, we would end up preventing the modification of a common product which often - and also, so to speak, by its very nature and taking into account novelty and creativity - cannot last very long, not beyond the lifetime of a human being, for example, and therefore a ceiling of 25 years would seem reasonable.
As regards the regulation, the first point I should like to make is that it derives from the 1993 Directive.
It is high time this regulation came into being: we cannot delay it any longer.
Generally speaking, these amendments considerably enhance the text and I believe the Commission will adopt them without any problem.
The fact that this agreement - which is far from perfect, but which provided a way out of the impasse in such a contentious issue - was reached, made the task of creating this regulation and this report on the Commission' s proposal far easier.
The rapporteur' s first report did advocate certain proposals which, though he believed them to be correct, in the opinion -and I believe in the better informed opinion - of many groups in Parliament, contradicted the freeze compromise relating to the repair clause.
I am delighted to be able to inform you that the Commission supports the recommendations in the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 13, 14, 16, 18 and 20.
However, some of the amendments, and particularly Amendments Nos 10, 11, 21, 22 and 23 are not entirely consistent with what was agreed within the context of the 1998 directive on design and so, unfortunately, the Commission is unable to accept them.
Furthermore, I would like briefly to take up the matter of design protection in the use of component parts of complex products for repair purposes, which is the subject of proposed Amendments Nos 6 and 12.
In addition, I would like to make reference to Amendments Nos 15 and 19, about counterfeiting.
On a final note, I would like to thank the Members of this House for their support and cooperation in respect of this important regulation.
The debate is closed.
The language regime of the Trade Mark Office was explicitly chosen in the old 1993 proposal for a regulation.
I therefore suggest that the Court of Justice reconsider the way this procedure works.
The fact that 1101 letters of formal notice, 675 reasoned opinions and 123 referrals have been presented to the Court of Justice clearly highlight the difficulties inherent in applying European Community law.
There are considerable delays - often one, two or even three years - between the Committee on Petitions' or the European Commission' s final decision on a matter following the initial complaint.
Among other things, the amendments call for a certain degree of harmonisation in European administrative law so that all citizens of the Union receive equal treatment.
It is our duty to take on board the fact that there is still a great deal to do in the internal market in terms of standardisation, but also and above all, we must realise that there are a great many gaps in the development of the European legal system.
Petitions to the Commission and the European Parliament in this context should give us not only food for thought, but also cause for concern.
The present Grotius and Falcone programmes have become out-dated as a result of developments.
This committee forms the interface between the European citizen, the European Parliament and the Commission.
I have on more than one occasion in this House referred, as others have done, to the shocking case of the foreign language lecturers in Italy who first received a judgment in their favour eleven years ago.
If we do not satisfy these we let ourselves down in the face of our own aspirations.
Mr President, fellow members, this Community law which we are helping to establish presents serious difficulties as far as application in Member States is concerned.
The way in which this report has been adopted is appalling.
I would stress that, as guardian of the Treaties, the Commission has been closely monitoring the situation since 1 February 2000 and, to this day, it has not found any grounds for criticism, which makes it clear that neither the community based on law nor that based on values is being violated in Austria.
The overall message put forward is that Community law must be applied properly; our Community is a Legal Community; there will either be a European rule of law or not; and monitoring compliance with Community law must be considered a priority.
We need to improve the way in which the infringement procedure operates, but do so in a way that does not prevent citizens in the slightest from fully exercising their right to directly contact the Commission which, at the end of the day, is what brings them closer to it.
I agree with her: there is nothing more important that we could devote time to discussing in this Parliament.
So instead of reducing working time in this House we should devote a little more time to underlining the failures of the European Union to implement its decisions.
There are some areas that people, particularly in business, are well-familiar with, such as the single market.
Someone pointed out the fact that we need 100 million migrant workers in this Union over the next 25 years if we are to maintain economic growth and meet our social obligations.
Mr President, the report on monitoring the application of Community law that has today been put before you, is the sixteenth report of its kind.
In this way, the demand made by Parliament in its resolution of 9 February 1983, has been fulfilled.
The Commission constantly endeavours to improve the speed and efficiency, not to mention the transparency, of its working methods in this sphere.
In this respect, the Commission' s recent initiatives in the sphere of information for the citizen, such as 'Europe direct' also guarantee enhanced transparency.
It is quite clear from the sixteenth report that these complaints are indispensable to the services of the Commission in their investigations into breaches of Community law.
The Commission is endeavouring to nip breaches of Community law in the bud and is therefore constantly updating its procedures pertaining to the monitoring of the application of Community law.
By amending Article 234 of the aforementioned Treaty, the intention is to achieve the following.
The Commission is also aiming for more effective implementation of Community law in the Member States by making the monitoring of the transposition measures pertaining to the Community directives more systematic.
As far as the possibility of taking account of the application of the second and third pillars in the report is concerned, I would reiterate that we have no instrument at our disposal, within the framework of these pillars, that bears comparison with the infringement procedures laid down in Article 226 of the EC Treaty.
Proof that these conclusions were unanimously adopted lies in the fact that they were signed by the chairman of the Committee on Petitions, another member of the Committee on Petitions from the European People' s Party, two members of the Socialist Group and I myself as draftsman of the opinion.
I am of the view that it is imperative for any report on the application of Community law to incorporate the Committee on Petitions' conclusions, as this committee plays such a key role in ensuring Member States apply Community law.
The fact is that the basic points made by the Committee on Petitions have already been included in the text of the report I drew up.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament adopted the resolution) EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE Mr President, my Group abstained from voting on the Grossetête report because in the middle of the perfectly acceptable general considerations on the application of Community law, the resolution put to the vote included a paragraph which we are unable to accept.
This Article stipulates that the Court of Justice may, as it sees fit, impose penalties or fines, sometimes very stiff ones, on a Member State that, for whatever reason, fails to apply Community law.
