&#160;&#160; Mr President, yesterday you wondered why there were not enough people in the Chamber at the time of the debate.
This morning we had the same problem and you had to wait until people came.
Following intense debates, first of all the citizens of France, and then the citizens of the Netherlands, rejected the draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, signed in Rome on 29&#160;October&#160;2004.
There were many reasons for these no votes, some of them contradictory.
Many of us expressed our disappointment and our regrets at the outcome of those votes.
But a democratic debate took place and we must, of course, fully respect the democratic choice made by a clear majority of the French and Dutch electorates.
This vote was driven by a great hope; a conviction that the European Union, following enlargement with ten new members, could strengthen its democratic basis, operate more effectively and more transparently, anchor its future in the common values that are so close to our hearts and, in this way, finally regain the full confidence of its citizens.
Ten countries have ratified the draft Constitution, including one – Spain - by referendum.
True, there is dissatisfaction with the form and operation of Europe, but, at the same time, for a large proportion of the citizens who said no, there is still considerable support for the idea of Europe and for the necessity for it, but it is support for a Europe that acts differently in a world that is undergoing a process of transformation.
The European Council will have to listen to these messages, expressed following a democratic debate that, certainly, has been lacking for too long.
All those who justified their choice to refuse by referring to a hypothetical Plan&#160;B must now realise that there is no easy escape from a situation that has become extremely complex.
We must also take into account the fact that ten countries have successfully completed the ratification procedure while more than half of the Member States have not yet expressed their opinion.
Let us also remember that the draft Constitution is the result of an overall compromise, that it has its own coherence, and that we cannot easily have one element without another.
The European Council should therefore carry out an in-depth collective analysis of the situation before defining clearly how the process will continue.
One thing seems certain: the European Union must not slide into a sort of permanent uncertainty, opposition to change or, even worse, paralysis.
Our decision-making capacity is intact, even if, obviously, the provisions of the Treaty of Nice are inadequate, in view of the political, economic and social challenges that the EU and our Member States must deal with ever more urgently.
The citizens expect concrete action, better consideration of their concerns, whether in economic and social matters or with regard to their security.
The world is wondering about the future of the EU, which has for a long time fascinated many peoples on all continents.
The European Council must therefore broaden its thinking.
A political EU must remain our aim, and the construction of a true European democracy is still the only way of achieving it.
In that context, the negotiations on the financial perspectives take on a very particular dimension.
Following the rich debate that you had yesterday, the vote that Parliament will take shortly on the resolution could send a signal of prime importance, a signal of encouragement.
You can be sure that the Presidency will do everything in its power to facilitate a compromise that is acceptable to all.
Mr&#160;President, in addition to these decisive questions, the European Council will be dealing with other matters that are no less important for the citizens.
That is how, on the basis of the work of all the relevant configurations of the Council, the implementation of macroeconomic and microeconomic policies and employment policies can be based around 24 integrated guidelines.
The European Council will also have to look into certain important aspects of the creation of the area of freedom, security and justice.
The citizens of Europe expect, quite rightly, that the European Union will adopt a more effective common approach to cross-border problems, such as illegal immigration, people trafficking, the fight against organised crime, the fight against terrorism, which you debated yesterday and which we consider to be very important.
The European Council will in particular review the efforts made to combat terrorism.
The European Council should, in particular, identify certain high-priority areas of action for the coming months: for example, police and judicial cooperation, the ongoing work to prevent the recruitment of terrorists, the fight against terrorist financing or strengthening our civil protection capacities, in particular in order to combat any bioterrorist threat.
I am referring in particular to the reform of the United Nations, which will be the focus of the United Nations Summit in September.
We consider it to be essential for this summit to reach a balanced and ambitious result, which will make it possible to reform the UN in order to respond more effectively to the multidimensional threats and challenges identified in the report by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Among the other international issues, preparations for the International Conference on Iraq, jointly organised by the European Union and the United States, which will take place in Brussels on 22&#160;June, will be up for discussion.
We must show that it has retained its full ability to make decisions and take action.
Yet whilst these issues are undoubtedly important, we must not overlook other items on the agenda, such as the integrated guidelines for implementing the Lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy.
There is one issue that I should like to bring to the fore: that of development aid in the context of the Millennium Goals.
Our internal problems must not divert us from our external responsibilities, particularly with regard to developing countries.
Mr President, I do not intend to go over the details of yesterday’s debate on the financial perspective.
Of course, the current political context has raised questions about the likelihood of agreement on the financial perspective.
When faced with political problems, the worst reaction would be to do nothing and remain paralysed.
Rather, we should show that the Union remains a dynamic political force, strong enough to continue its work in the face of difficulties.
The Commission’s proposals were a careful balance between tried and tested policies and the Union’s new policy proposals.
At the European Council we will doubtless have detailed and sometimes difficult negotiations, but if we can keep in mind that we are talking about what the Union really has to do, it is possible to reach an agreement that will allow the Union to go forward effectively.
We must commend the presidency for its great efforts and determination in finding a deal.
It is true that the proposal now on the table is closer to the minimalist approach favoured by some Member States than to the position of Parliament.
As I indicated yesterday, I hope that the presidency will carefully consider the very balanced views expressed by Parliament and take due account of them in the final round of negotiations.
Throughout its history, the EU has experienced many difficulties, but the commitment and conviction of its leaders have enabled us to overcome them and to relaunch the European project.
Perhaps you will allow me, Mr&#160;President, to share with Parliament certain thoughts brought to mind by the parallels between the current situation and the one we experienced 50 years ago, when the project of the European Defence Community failed and the European leaders, instead of bringing an end to their ambitions for Europe, found the best way of overcoming this problem.
We must now honestly try to understand why two countries as important as France and the Netherlands voted no.
It is very important that these concerns were expressed in a democratic vote following a very lively debate.
That is why, at Berlaymont, the Presidents of the European Parliament and of the European Council and I emphasised, in our joint declaration following the French referendum, that the relevant national and European politicians must do more to explain the true scale of what is at stake, and the nature of the answers that only Europe can offer, and that we must ask ourselves how each among us can contribute to a better understanding of this project, which cannot have its own legitimacy without listening to its citizens.
Twenty-five governments signed the Constitutional Treaty.
Ten Member States have so far ratified the Constitution, including one, namely Spain, in a very clear referendum.
However, other Member States have not yet expressed their position and I think that all the Member States of the EU have the right to express their position on equal terms.
Nevertheless, the essential thing now, in my view, is for the Member States to respond together to the current situation and for us to avoid unilateral, individual, disparate actions.
I note that the governments have largely demonstrated restraint and, where it was considered unavoidable to adopt a position for internal reasons, they have retained a sense of moderation and the possibility of a debate and of a collective decision.
The fate of the Constitution is now in the hands of the Member States.
It is important for the Heads of State or Government to analyse the current situation and to send a clear message to all Europeans.
I am convinced that it is possible and desirable for this message to translate the desire to reach a new political consensus in Europe.
Analysis of the current situation shows that there are two possible&#160;–&#160;and I would stress, possible&#160;–&#160;extreme solutions that, in my opinion, must be avoided at all costs.
The first inappropriate solution would be to say that nothing has happened, that everything can continue&#160;–&#160;business as usual&#160;–&#160;as if these two negative votes in such important countries had never happened.
Another inappropriate extreme solution would be to abandon the draft Constitutional Treaty straight away.
This would involve ignoring the fact that ten Member States have already ratified it and that the no votes in two States, although they express a negative position with regard to the Constitution, nonetheless do not constitute support for an alternative project and also include some contradictions.
Therefore, if we are going to avoid these two extreme solutions, we must look for another solution.
We must have a political debate in Europe in order to reach a political solution for the future of our Europe.
Without calling the draft Constitutional Treaty into question, we must move Europe on and avoid paralysis.
This solution can only result from an in-depth analysis and from an open debate.
It must necessarily be drawn up in a spirit of compromise between the 25 Member States within the European Council, also with the full participation of the European Commission and having listened carefully to the European Parliament, and also to the national parliaments and our societies.
But could we perhaps talk about a plan D?
D for democracy and dialogue.
A plan D to listen to the people; a plan through which the European and national institutions devote themselves to an exercise of listening to and debating with the citizens and civil society, in order to deepen our analysis of a complex situation.
This should enable us to take a more consensual path, particularly because it is more representative of the will of all our citizens.
In view of the scepticism expressed by some of our fellow citizens, we must show that the European Union can, now more than ever, respond to their concerns and to the many challenges of the new millennium.
Admittedly, the results of the two referenda last week constitute a serious problem, but it is not the first time that Europe has encountered problems and it will certainly not be the last.
That is why the Commission is continuing, and will continue, to take important decisions that will bring real benefits to all the citizens of Europe, because the political life of the EU is continuing, even after the referenda.
All the European institutions must now particularly show a spirit of compromise and unite around the aspiration to move forward and to achieve our aims, in particular by combating unemployment and insecurity.
In the coming days and weeks, we will have to join together to manage a complex situation.
In this context, I think we must avoid two dangerous pitfalls: the first I would call the blame game, and the second pitfall I would describe as the deepening of negative ideological splits.
First of all, we must at all costs avoid succumbing to the blame game, in other words making pointless and dangerous accusations that aim in particular to make the European institutions&#160;–&#160;be it the Commission, the European Parliament or the Council&#160;–&#160;scapegoats for the difficulties encountered, either at national level or in the face of global challenges.
We recognise, indeed, that we could all improve the relationship of confidence and responsibility between the citizens and the EU, in particular by adhering more closely to the subsidiarity principle that everybody talks about but that is often not applied.
Europe is created in compromise and by compromise, and it is above all the responsibility of the representatives of the Member States to explain that and to argue in favour of Europe instead of exploiting national egotism in a way that is negative to our Europe.
What we now need is an intelligent fusion of the market and the State that can help Europe to be a winner, not a loser, in the face of globalisation.
We have different ideological positions, particularly in the political battle at national level.
Any attempt to impose on Europe, through the European institutions, a single ideal, a single ideological direction, would mean forgetting that Europe is forged in diversity, in difference, but also, it has to be said, in the search for compromise and consensus.
The role of the Commission as I see it is to promote this consensus and to avoid exacerbating pointless and dangerous antagonisms.
Without this new political consensus, it will be more difficult to reach a compromise and solutions.
It is in this vein and with this aim that I am launching an appeal to all European leaders, particularly at national level.
All of us must demonstrate a sense of responsibility and be equal to the very difficult situation with which we are faced.
Thus, I call on all the national authorities to agree to make a serious effort to resist the national egotism which has done such harm to Europe and which is continuing to damage it seriously.
I call for unity around European values, around, we could say, the European culture, around our European spirit, so that, together, we can build a new political consensus, both dynamic and constructive, a consensus that will make it possible to avoid Europe becoming the first victim of globalisation, but, on the contrary, will enable Europe to win this battle of globalisation.
I can assure you that the Commission is fully mobilised and available to contribute to this and that we are quite willing to work with all of you, with the various political groupings, on the condition that you all understand and accept that Europe is not the problem, but rather the solution to the problems the citizens are facing today. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, greatly disappointed though the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has been by the referenda in France and the Netherlands, the greatest danger that we now face is that of losing direction.
France and the Netherlands – two important countries, admittedly – cannot take responsibility for the 25 Members of the European Union.
Secondly, the ten countries that have ratified the Constitutional Treaty represent 220&#160;million people; these ten ratifications cannot and must not go by the board.
Thirdly, the 13 countries that have yet to ratify are entitled to express their views on the constitution.
Then there is the point that you made, Mr&#160;President, a point which also concerns us in the European Parliament: less legislation in Europe is sometimes more for all of us.
Europe must be strong where Europe alone can act, and we also need to be more strict about applying the principle of subsidiarity.
The objective can be membership, but it can also be a privileged partnership.
Rarely have I found a speech as difficult as the one that I have to give this morning, because, as the spokesman for a group of over 200 Members, I have to try to draw together the diverse sentiments that the current situation has called forth in them.
I should therefore like to add a few comments to what has already been said.
One country might say that it is going to suspend the ratification process, while another might say that it wants to ratify by parliamentary procedure or by holding a referendum.
Every European election – in 2004, 1999, 1994, and even in 1989 – has showed similar tendencies: namely that increasing numbers of European citizens are turning away from the European project.
Alongside all this self-criticism that I am directing at us – at myself, this House and the Commission – there is one factor that cannot be overlooked and that should perhaps finally be discussed in the Council of 16 and 17&#160;June.
We all know that what we do in Brussels does not produce a direct relationship between ourselves and the citizens, but an indirect one.
Their evil deeds of the past have now come back with a vengeance to haunt the governments of France and the Netherlands.
But promising enlargement before the foundations for that enlargement have been laid – the constitution was to be those foundations – is just as negligent.
We cannot demand reforms and processes of transformation from other countries when we ourselves are not capable of putting our own house in order.
That is why this Union has to do something.
That is why giving Europe a constitution remains our objective.
But nobody is completely satisfied with a vehicle in which strategic decisions are taken without proper public debate.
Too many decisions are still taken behind closed doors and without proper parliamentary scrutiny.
More than ever, Europe needs leaders with a sense of purpose and vision, who can inspire our citizens to maximise their potential and opportunity.
Here are just three ways: the Council could and should be more open, legislating in public, respecting freedom of information; justice and home affairs policy could and should be decided by the normal Community method, as provided for in the existing treaties; the European Parliament could and should be given a real say on international agreements.
Those three steps would help to rebuild confidence in the European project.
At the European Council, you need an answer from Chirac and Balkenende about whether this Constitution will ever be ratifiable in their countries and if not, what kind of text might be.
We need a treaty for a Union of 27 Member States, but in the meantime there is much you can do to rebuild on the basis of the current treaties and restore public faith in the European project. &#160;&#160; .
The first truth: when, today, the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe discovers that we should have proceeded to ratification on the same day, I would remind you that, when we proposed a European referendum across the whole of Europe, even this Parliament did not follow us.
Today, everybody wishes we had held a European referendum on the same day because, even though it may indeed have resulted in defeat, we would not have this ridiculous problem of asking ourselves whether or not we should proceed with ratification: everybody would have voted on the same day.
Let us say this clearly: either we have a budget that enables Europe to operate or we cannot promise anything for Europe.
We, as European citizens and MEPs, have the right, like all citizens, to know what problems you have in Council, and how you respond to them.
Not only what Mr&#160;Schröder will say to Mr&#160;Blair in public, but how the members of the Council respond when there are other positions, how they react to the positions of Mr&#160;Juncker, who wants to carry on, of Mr&#160;Blair, who wants to stop, of the Poles, who do not know, of the Danes, who do not know: we want all of that to be made public.
That is why I would say to everybody: we have lost, yes, we lost in France, but, because I was part of the campaign, I do not want to lose again and I do not want to continue to lie on very clear matters.
Many of these people still have dreams of Europe, but they are not dreaming about the Stability Pact or the Bolkestein directive.
The crisis in Europe today truly is an existential crisis.
Finally, by opening a huge free citizens’ debate, not a convention but a citizens’ debate free from any pressure at EU level in order to assess the state of affairs in Europe today and determine what we need to change in order to produce a Europe in which the majority of Europeans can once again recognise themselves and get involved.
Secondly, the second thing that is clear is that the Constitution is dead.
Finally, and I will conclude here, we must put in place new mechanisms which will allow for a return to the common European preference, at least in those industrial sectors that are vulnerable, such as the textile industry.
The vote that took place in France and in the Netherlands does not mean a ‘no’ to Europe but the desire to stop going down the road where decisions are too often made at the top or without taking account of changing circumstances and new economic and social situations.
It is precisely the employment crisis, caused by the social dumping carried out by a number of countries and the lengthy time taken by Europe in tackling the issue, that has created the insecurity and fear that prompted the ‘no’ vote on the Treaty.
The situation calls for a renewed sense of responsibility on the part of the three Institutions, in order that what is possible is carried out and the decision is made not to address what needs to be put off.
At the same time, the links with the European Central Bank need to be addressed in a fresh way, because the Union will never have a future if the political bodies do not have the necessary influence on the drafting of monetary policy.
The Union has already experienced difficult periods from which it has emerged with the introduction of new initiatives: as a result of the French National Assembly’s rejection in 1954 of the Treaty instituting the European Defence Community, the Conference of Messina was created, followed by the Treaties of Rome.
As a result of the European Community’s stagnation in the 1970s, the Genscher-Colombo project came about, and following the vote at the European Council in Milan in 1985, under President&#160;Craxi, the Single European Act was attained.
There have been two votes, only three days apart, in France and in Holland, two of the six countries that were founder-members of the European Union.
It is, therefore, perhaps surprising that popular referendum is not the only means of ratification in all the countries of the European Union, seeing as it is the most democratic means which, in particular, those who complain in this House about the democratic deficit of the institutions might be expected to champion.
It is against oligarchies – in politics, in the media, in the economy, in social affairs and elsewhere – which had far more powerful means at their disposal in the debate, that the people have spoken, refusing to give up their independence within a supranational state that, at one and the same time, showed itself to be ultraliberal, bureaucratic, economically mediocre and socially disastrous.
They said no to indefinite enlargement, beyond Europe, to Turkey.
What we should be doing this morning is looking at the positive sides of what is going on in Europe and what we can achieve outside of that situation.
There must be an proper ongoing debate on the kind of Europe we want to build.
The people have given a clear message and part of that message is that they feel alienated by the processes and by the institutions.
It is very important at the moment that there should be no delay in driving forward the Lisbon Agenda, the current liberalisation policies or the sustainable development arguments.
As the President has said, we have to meet the challenges from China, India and other parts of the world with fast-growing economies.
So there is an urgent need for us to seize our opportunity for renewal.
The first principle is equality between the European nations.
The second principle is, in the matter of enlargement, keeping one’s promises.
This shows us the way, so let us have confidence in the people of de Villiers’ . &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we are living through difficult times and I want here to express the profound sadness that I feel and that is felt by all those, in the European Union and in the world, who are committed to the project of a political Europe.
Our Europe is in crisis, the Europe that we wanted and that we built.
Of course, we all know that internal political issues had a significant influence on the French and Dutch results.
For years, our people have had the feeling that Europe was being built without involving them, that they had no part at all in the decisions, often important decisions, that were being made on their behalf.
Our people also had the feeling that Europe was a project that was out of control, whose identity and whose boundaries were not defined.
Their response cannot, and must not be, purely judicial.
It must, first of all, be political, and, whatever might be the outcome of the ratification process, it is essential that the next European Council outlines the prospects and produces answers to the expectations of our fellow citizens.
The scapegoat has done its duty, but it is in a wretched state.
What is farcical about this is that the revolt against the Europe that we have makes the new Europe impossible.
Chapter 3 does not belong in a constitution; it should form part of normal legislation, which Parliament should be able to revise with the help of the national parliaments.
That is how peoples obtain the right to amendment ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Dutch people have emphatically rejected the European Constitution.
The rejection of the Constitutional Treaty is primarily a rejection of the speed and direction of the European integration process.
At the Summit of 16 and 17 June, the Heads of Government must demonstrate that they have more of an understanding of the French and Dutch ‘no’ than many of my fellow Members.
It is therefore incomprehensible that the political in Brussels should procrastinate and prefer the torture rack to the speedy advent of a new treaty.
I am delighted that the voters have demonstrated a lack of confidence in a Europe that is defined indistinctly both in terms of geography and policy content, and which combines the unhealthy concentration of power with unrealistic political ambitions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, listening to the debate this morning you would imagine that, not only is there a European crisis, but that Europe does not have any answers or responses to the will and the wishes of the people.
Whilst this is a difficult time, and whilst there is a lot of uncertainty, this is also an opportunity for us to reflect on what we have achieved so far, and to find a proper and more appropriate way forward.
Unfortunately, that way forward will not be found by trying to analyse why the voters in France and Holland said ‘no’.
Those people who try and tell us that we must put off this whole process and stop and listen to the voice of democracy are totally ignoring the voice of democracy as represented by the nine other countries that have already ratified the European Constitution.
That leadership must come not only from this House, but also from the Commission.
The people within Europe today did not vote against more jobs, did not vote against better social protection, did not vote against better trade, did not vote against better Community development programmes, did not vote against giving more aid to the developing world, did not vote against protection for our environment, did not vote against ensuring sustainable development in fisheries and other industries.
We have to remind all the peoples of Europe that our best self-interest, as well as our best collective interest, lies in understanding our interdependency, not only in relation to single market economics, but also to our human responsibilities to each other across the European continent. &#160;&#160; – The Constitutional Treaty has already been ratified by ten states, including five old Member States Austria, Germany, Greece, Italy and Spain and five new ones Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Slovenia and Slovakia.
I believe that, on the contrary, they have abused the ideas and good will of the new Member States and, moreover, humiliated a major European country my neighbour, Poland by using the Polish welder as a symbol.
I am calling upon Parliament not to weep over the negative outcome, nor to rejoice with some of those present here over the rubbishing of the idea of a strong Europe, but to take forceful and effective steps to facilitate the process in the future.
As far as the consultation process goes, I think it will also be up to those responsible at national level to decide what procedures to adopt.
What is needed to convince the people is action and a financial perspective that will serve to demonstrate that Europe can stimulate the economy and create employment through investments in the major infrastructure or through ‘Galileo’, which could create 100&#160;000 new jobs and is waiting for a signal from the Council to get under way.
In fact, this crisis is also a crisis for democracy.
We need, therefore, to give more information, focussing on the most important points in our common policy, for the sake of our citizens and for a social Europe.
Mr President, the ‘no’ vote was also the rejection of a Europe that puts the laws of the market and of competitiveness first, of a liberal Europe without any concern for the workers, and I say that for the benefit of those who were in favour of a 72-hour week. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the voters in the Netherlands and France gave us a clear message: Stop, we are hurtling along without knowing exactly where we are heading.
In the Netherlands, 62% of the voters said ‘no’.
The ‘no’ vote came from two different quarters.
There is, on the other hand, a ‘no’ vote from the progressive voter who is in favour of European cooperation but considers this Constitution too intrusive and lacking in the social dimension.
We have to try to reunite those progressive voters from the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ camps for the benefit of a clearly defined European project.
Needless to say, other countries must also be given the opportunity of speaking out about the European Constitution, but the die is cast in the Netherlands and France.
Not this Constitution, not a second referendum on the same subject.
We must avoid becoming isolated or marking time; quite the reverse.
We want to mount a reform battle in Europe to demonstrate to both the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ voters that we have heard them.
The Council Summit on 16 and 17 June, and chaired thereafter by Mr Blair, may be able to make a start on thinking about salvaging the key elements, namely Chapters 1 and 2 of the Constitution, the principles of Europe, the improved weighting of vote, the high level of subsidiarity, accessibility, enhanced influence of national parliaments and citizens’ rights, in a simplified treaty.
Actually give the public the power over the European Union.
The question now arises of what type of reform the European Union would be able to handle.
Europe has a problem but it also has an opportunity, and we must not be held back by the past. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ‘Never have so many Europeans had so few to thank for so much’, is my message to the French people.
The problem is not that the EU is moving ahead too quickly, but that it is heading in the wrong direction.
In the David Goliath contest, the French people have aimed their stone well and they killed the Constitution.
That surprises me, because it seems to me that you are indulging in masochism.
You are going to have a rather unhappy period.
History will catch up with you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I congratulate the people of France and Holland on bringing deliverance to all those in Europe who value democracy and national liberty.
We therefore want to know whether the European social model is compatible with a form of globalisation that has been brought in at the cost of the kinds of social dumping and environmental dumping that prevail in other countries and that have led to relocations and unemployment in Europe.
It is important, indeed crucial, that Europe – either of its own volition or if possible in conjunction with the United States, starting with the Doha Round – takes measures to ensure compliance with International Labour Organisation rules, in the same way that the Lisbon Strategy must become less bureaucratic and more entrepreneur-friendly and SME-friendly.
These are the European Council’s main challenges. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in a democracy, the majority vote must always be accepted and respected, even if the majority is not necessarily right.
The French and the Dutch votes are irrevocable.
Just as the Eurogroup has elected in advance a president for two years, so governments should put in place other actions in anticipation of the treaty, relying on a voluntary agreement.
Thus, the Commission would have to consult national parliaments on any future legislative initiatives.
The accession of Romania and Bulgaria will take place under the terms of the Treaty of Nice.
Of course, the European Union could function better within the framework of the treaty that has now broken down.
Since, however, the ‘no’ vote offers no solution, we have to show, difficult though it may be, that Europe carries on, while striving better to meet the needs of our citizens through more imaginative and more supportive policies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is with some sadness that I hear the reactions to the Dutch and French ‘no’ votes.
Europe is too bureaucratic, too expensive; too many new countries have joined and Europe is going too fast.
The environment is going faster, China’s economy is growing more rapidly, and so is international crime.
Rather than needing to take its foot off the accelerator, Europe must take a great leap forward.
As for the enlargement, to be frank, I am relying on the dynamism of the new countries as new driving force for European integration.
I am, in fact, concerned about the Council’s position yesterday in respect of data retention when the Council decided to completely blank the European Parliament, which is not in the spirit of the debate that has taken place.
We should not forget that in addition to the two countries that said ‘no’, there are also ten countries that said ‘yes’, and that is an important fact.
I would therefore be against suspending the whole process.
It is evident that time is needed to reflect, but I think that every country and every people must have the right to speak out about this Constitution.
Instead of reverting to the , we need to redouble our efforts for Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Constitution is dead in France and buried in the Netherlands, yet the Council’s otherwise decent President-in-Office is behaving like a body snatcher in wanting to continue with the process of ratifying the rejected document.
We have seven current demands concerning openness, the election of Commissioners, majority voting with the right of veto, the principle of proximity, the right of control by the national parliaments, minimum flexible conditions, and enhanced cooperation instead of compulsion.
Read our proposal.
Use your ears, listen to the electorate and do come to our press conference at 4&#160;p.m. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I speak on behalf of the New Italian Socialist Party.
By signing, the Treaty introducing the single currency and launching the political cohesion process, back in 1992, Europe knew that it was embarking on a journey that should completely transform both the institutional model and the overall shape of the Union, by gradually abandoning the geopolitical structure of the Cold War.
Many of the cogs in this mechanism have not worked, however, and many of the issues opened up by the Treaty of Maastricht are still on the agenda today.
It is time to make clear choices about the shape of the European dimension: a decision needs to be made about whether or not the Lisbon perspective should really be pursued, by postponing the associated projects of common interest; the areas and the limits of political integration need to be redefined; and, in a clearer manner than in the Constitutional Treaty, the choice of a free and competitive economic and social system has to be reaffirmed, a system that is genuinely capable of making Europe a leading player in the ongoing process of globalisation. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;Bonde said that he wanted equal representation from both sides, but this Parliament decided to support the constitution by a majority of 80-90%, and 52% of the population, through their parliaments and in referenda, have already said ‘yes’ to it!
They include the unpopularity of national policies, fear of globalisation and unemployment, as well as a desire to give us the message: ‘you have gone too far in terms of both internal legislation and enlargement, and quite a lot more besides’.
Today’s Europe has been examined and criticised, rightly or wrongly.
I believe that we need this time for a suspension of the ratification process, so that we do not accumulate even more no’s on these false premises.
The worst decision that could be taken in a week’s time would be to continue in the same old way, in which clarity is hardly the watchword.
Mr&#160;President, we can hold all the conventions and present all the treaty documents we like, but that will not help if we do not tackle the real problems in Europe.
In the course of two years, this Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the European Socialist Party, of which I am President, have presented clear calls for Europe to invest in more new jobs and to unite behind a common response to what many ordinary people see as the threats of globalisation.
Our greatest task now, under the British Presidency – and I really do think we have received some very exciting signals from Prime Minister Tony Blair – is to combine people’s need for social protection with new jobs in a globalised world.
I also very much support the call by the President-in-Office of the Council and by the President of the Commission for us to have the financial perspectives in place in a week’s time.
That would be the most important signal of all that we are not incapable of making decisions but that we take people’s concerns seriously. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President Barroso said that we should not start the blame game.
However, we should certainly question the credibility of the European Council in stimulating and managing the great debate about the social and economic future of Europe.
The European Council should, and probably will, suspend the ratification process but it should not pull the plug on the whole constitutional project.
Instead, it should agree in principle to set up a new convention – pluralistic, parliamentary and transparent – with a broader brief than that of Laeken, especially to modernise and refresh Part III, to bring the common policies into line with the aspirations and anxieties of our citizens.
The new convention should also be asked to break the rigid relationship between the first, second and third parts and to create a proper hierarchy between them, so that in Part III the policies become distinctly subsidiary to Part I.
The political elites should realise that the majority of Europe’s nations are opposed to the establishment of a bureaucratic, Brussels-run superstate monopolising social, economic and monetary policy.
Instead, they wish to participate democratically in decision-making processes and in European integration based on free cooperation between free countries.
I was delighted to hear President Barroso make reference to our duty in the area of development cooperation.
The key marker will undoubtedly be when an agreement is reached about the financial perspectives, because that must provide the framework for Europe to function in the next few years.
I think that when Mr Rasmussen says that ‘the European Council must provide clarity’, that this European Council is as yet unable to provide clarity in the short term, because the ‘no’ is far too diffuse for that.
It must be a defined period of reflection, clearly limited in time with a clearly specified time when conclusions will be drawn. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, far from being dead, as some are saying, the constitution is alive and must be kept alive, for there is, as far as I am aware, no plausible alternative to it.
We may need more time.
That is why each country should decide for itself when to proceed to ratification.
There is also a positive side to this, because now perhaps all of the countries are on an equal footing.
Above all, I hope that the new countries will say a hearty ‘yes’, because they have to understand that part of the ‘no’ was also directed at them.
I believe that project D, to which Mr&#160;Barroso, the President of the Commission, referred, is a possible way forward.
Let us together organise a grand European debate about the future of European unification, not 25 separate national debates, but one joint debate.
Some people are saying another convention, perhaps ‘European assizes’, or some kind of instrument.
It is next week, at the summit, that the signal for this new start ought to be given. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Europe was unable to win the obstacle race.
The Constitution failed to clear all the fences.
On the other hand, the situation in our own country has deteriorated, so we will make use of our power to say so’, and they voted for superficial reasons.
This attitude has led us to a sorry state.
One of the major errors in relation to this Constitutional Treaty was not to have organised popular or parliamentary consultation on the same day in all the Member States.
Let us remember, however, that ten countries voted ‘yes’ and that it is only by integrating the European debate within all issues of national politics that we can manage to avert the populist hurricane that is now sweeping over our countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, continuing with the ratification procedure in the remaining Member States would have the attraction of showing that this Constitution does have the support of the majority of Member States and of the peoples of the European Union.
Then secondly at European level: we must make this a European debate, not just another quick IGC behind closed doors, but a public debate.
We must find a way because we cannot afford to lose the reforms contained in this Constitution.
We need a European Union that is more effective and more democratic. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the discussions which will be held at the European Council next week will, unfortunately, take place under the shadow of the two novotes on the European Constitution, two novotes which lead us to the conclusion that we now need to hold a fundamental, joint debate on the future of Europe.
The conclusions of this debate will probably cause us to re-examine the policies adopted and followed up to now by the European Union, both within the Union and in its foreign relations.
They must say it, not us.
Since I am the first speaker who comes from a country that has said ‘yes’ in a referendum, please allow me to give some pieces of advice.
Firstly, in Spain we held a referendum on the European Constitution and I would like to pay tribute to all the opposition parties, who talked about Europe and not about our domestic problems.
Secondly, we must talk about Europe and we must speak well.
I must say that we need to reflect on what must be done, but we must not stop.
I will end by saying to the President-in-Office of the Council that it should add two things to its list: we must defend the euro and we must work actively within the Doha Round, which is where globalisation is going to be debated this year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, next week’s European Council summit will be one of the most important in the history of European integration.
We all realise that a wrecked Constitution would leave Europe as it was before the start of the ratification process.
If they are unable to do so, we shall create a political basis by separating the first and second parts of the Constitution from individual common policies.
The Convention, of which I was a member, came to the view that if the EU were to achieve effective reform, it would need not only to organise relations between institutions and incorporate the Charter of Fundamental Rights, but also to consolidate existing agreements, including policies.
However, neither the Convention nor the subsequent Intergovernmental Conference had the political will to separate these two problems from each other.
We are here, Mr President, because France and the Netherlands rejected the Constitution.
The European Council should therefore take independent decisions on the separation of the constitutional framework in Chapters 1 and 2 and its submission for ratification.
This is why the process must not be halted merely because two countries have said ‘no’.
I would urge the Members of this House who have today called for a halt to ratification to respect democracy and the sovereign right of each state to take autonomous decisions on this issue.
I should like to have my say on the Constitution, and I do not believe that anyone should deprive me of this right, or tell me that France and the Netherlands have already decided on my behalf and on behalf of all Poles.
Still bearing in mind the outcome of the referenda in France and the Netherlands, the second point I should like to make is that the Polish people have been very much alarmed by the tone and direction of the debate in these countries.
I hope to hear answers to these questions after the forthcoming summit, which I believe will get to grips with this tricky situation. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, we have been inundated with a multitude of analyses, interpretations and speculations ever since the referenda in France and the Netherlands.
An oft-repeated claim is that the victory of the ‘no’ camp in these countries was a public protest against the recent EU enlargement, and that the failed referenda are a form of punishment for what happened one year ago.
The decision to open negotiations with Turkey in October is quite openly being called into question, and Ukraine’s European ambitions are being written off.
Of course, no&#160;one can be forbidden from expressing these and similar opinions.
I would remind the House that we must not only abide by principles when it suits us, and when they are in any case redundant, but also when we encounter difficulties in doing so.
Unless this mission is accomplished, not only will the Constitutional Treaty be killed off, but also the EU itself. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, the construction of Europe and its integration always were, are, and will continue to be very complex processes, in which two steps forward are often followed by one step back.
Neither in France nor in the Netherlands, however, does this mean the end of the integration process, and I am convinced that this does not necessarily mean the end of the European Constitution.
The score so far is 10 countries in favour and two against.
I would like to say one more thing regarding the Financial Perspective.
I believe that a compromise will be reached on 16 and 17 June allowing Europe to move forward with the help of financial resources, which are, of course, necessary if we are to achieve our goals and realise our ambitions. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, from a legal point of view, this treaty, as everyone knows, has failed.
You might go to the Commission, examine all of the draft directives lying around there, and only find one in which a clear distinction is drawn between what needs to be regulated in Europe and what is best left in the hands of the Member States and their regions.
We must turn our attention to these issues.
Ukraine, Belarus, Morocco, Israel – in the past all of these countries have been discussed.
The June European Council, as has been mentioned, will now have to be able to read the signals resulting from the ‘no’ vote in the referendum and find an exit route.
The second is to relaunch a fresh challenge that proposes more Europe – I would say the real Europe.
They should say the same in Brussels as they do at home.
As well as drafting this code of conduct, I hope that you will open the door for a limited period of reflection, and that you will produce an information and communication strategy that will open a democratic debate with the public, so that the ratification process can continue successfully thereafter. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the situation that we are now facing is called crisis.
Each country has to decide on the Constitution according to its own constitutional rules.
In the meantime, we must reflect on the consequences of the apparent absence of unanimous ratification so as to establish as quickly as possible a new consensus for a political Europe, which we must not give up on.
Nevertheless, what Europeans have expressed by their vote or by their attitude needs close analysis and it calls first for changes in European politics and in the way they are conducted.
It is not the problem, but at best a way of resolving our problems in Europe and with Europe more effectively.
We European politicians should therefore take the trouble to consider how we can turn this situation round.
I agree with those who want to suspend the process of ratifying the treaty for a certain period.
However, the decision-making process should then be re-started, perhaps even in a coordinated form, with the remaining decisions on the constitution all being made at the same time.
I have put a lot of thought into the position my group should take and the position this Parliament should take with regard to the ratification process.
The people are asking us to listen, to debate and to hold dialogue.
I believe that, if the Heads of State or Government take a unanimous decision in this regard, we will all have time — perhaps one year until the end of the Austrian Presidency — to consider what we should do about the Constitution, how we should explain these things to the people, how we should re-establish contact with them.
It is a very difficult task, but one that we must carry out with determination and with tenacity.
The first conclusion I would like to draw is that the democratic debate that has been started in Europe and that has opened up because of this sort of crisis, the importance of which should not now be exaggerated, must, at all events, continue.
I agree that we have to recognise that it is up to each sovereign nation – and, as I am from Luxembourg, I feel directly involved, since our referendum will be taking place very soon, on 10 July – to decide, if it wishes, immediately and without waiting, to carry on as if nothing had happened.
Europe must be an issue, but it must also be the subject of a basic consensus between all democrats and between all those who believe that Europe is the solution and not the problem.
I believe, Mr President, that when you go to the European Council you will be listened to because you have conducted a very useful debate.
I believe that we have indeed had a serious debate.
At the close of this debate, however, it is equally clear that there is no magic solution and that all of us recognise the very great complexity of the problem.
If we can agree on this principle, the idea that Europe does not utterly disregard the negative results in two countries as important as France and the Netherlands, that Europe listens and that institutions and politicians listen and want to understand what is happening and to come up with solutions is an important one.
I think that, on this point, there has been, all things considered, fairly general agreement in favour of this idea.
I think I can say that there was also agreement in favour, too, of recognising the responsibility shared by all those involved and the need to work together in order to find a new consensus that will allow Europe to move forward.
There is a third idea which, I believe, is more or less generally accepted, and that is the idea that we must avoid paralysis.
The people expect definite answers, beyond institutional debate and constitutional discussions.
In other words, nobody wants this hot potato, until such time as a magic formula has been discovered to save the ‘European Constitution’, be it revamped or otherwise.
This will take time.
In Portugal, the Socialist party, the Social Democrat Party and the Coalition, despite having been overtaken by events, are still pressing ahead with holding a farcical referendum on the so-called ‘European Constitution’, which has twice been rejected, on the same day as municipal elections, which will stifle any chance of open and meaningful debate.
There is therefore only one appropriate course of action: to bury the ‘European Constitution’ once and for all. &#160;&#160; I would like to welcome Mr Voronin, President of the Republic of Moldova, and the delegation accompanying him.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, when Romania joins the European Union, Moldova will become a direct neighbour of our Union.
The action plan between the European Union and Moldova that we have recently implemented is a good instrument for moving these relations forward.
Mr President, I wish you a fruitful visit to our Institution &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there are 90 of us who, as MEPs, have signed a motion of censure on the Commission, because it was the only way we had ... &#160;&#160; Mr Bonde, I have cut you off because this is not the time to make statements.
Please wait a moment. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there are 90 of us who, as MEPs, have signed a motion of censure ... &#160;&#160; Mr Bonde, you do not have the right to speak under Rule 100.
That is normally enough for a group leader. &#160;&#160; Alright, Mr Bonde, explain to me the problem you have with Rule 100. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the problem is that there are 90 of us who, as MEPs, have signed a motion of censure on the Commission, because it was the only way we had of getting the President of the Commission to come here to Parliament and explain the connection between a gift of between EUR&#160;20&#160;000 and EUR&#160;25&#160;000 and a subsequent decision to provide EUR&#160;10&#160;million in regional aid to his friend.
We were given an explanation, but Parliament’s President has in the meantime decided that, contrary to the wish expressed in the motion itself, we must vote on the motion.
That does not mean that we are satisfied with the Commission’s answer, but we are pleased about the undertakings given during the debate, and we shall pursue the matter in the Committee on Budgetary Control and go on fighting for complete openness about gifts ... &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Bonde.
What you are raising is in no sense a point of order. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, at the vote in the temporary committee on 10&#160;May, we had around 620 amendments to deal with and vote on.
Thirdly, having held further talks just now, I should like to ask my group, contrary to the voting list, to support Amendment 19 to paragraph&#160;50, second indent, tabled by the Socialist Group.
Please allow me to make a few brief comments on the importance of this Parliament’s vote on this resolution.
We are all aware that over the coming days the European institutions have the serious responsibility to reach an agreement on the Union's priorities for the coming years and to provide the financial resources necessary for them.
During our debate yesterday, President Barroso told us that, despite certain differences, he is comfortable with Parliament's proposal, because what we have just voted for and what the Commission is proposing are not so different.
I believe that the Member States must do whatever they can to reach an agreement on 16 and 17 June, and I believe that we can trust in the efforts being made by the Luxembourg Presidency.
Finally, everybody should be aware that if there were no financial perspectives, the Union would operate on the basis of the annual budgetary procedure laid down in Article 272 of the current Treaty, which provides Parliament with very significant room for manoeuvre.
Parliament would use it, but since that would lead to conflicts we do not want to see between the two arms of the budgetary authority, we would once again urge the Council to reach an agreement Parliament can accept. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the referenda in the two countries that have just said no to the Constitutional Treaty, a more democratic strategy seems necessary.
First of all, I shall ask that the Council be invited, as proposed in paragraph 4 of the resolution, to indicate the positions of the national delegations, duly named, within the framework of the legislative process, instead of keeping them secret, including from the European Parliament’s rapporteur, and this with the peculiar notion of protecting the effectiveness of the Institution’s decision-making process.
Secondly, the text seeks to make the debates of the Council public, when it is acting in a legislative capacity, and this would enable us, in particular, to know what it thinks of the amendments tabled by the European Parliament.
For example, I gather that the opinion of the European Parliament concerning the framework decision on racism, which dates from 2002, that is to say from three years ago, has still not been examined – or, at least, it had not been last week – by the ‘Justice’ Council.
Thirdly, as indicated in paragraphs five and six of this resolution, the text seeks to include the European Parliament when the European Union concludes international agreements, since these agreements are not even referred to the national parliaments.
Finally, I would point out that the European Parliament has already asked, during the preceding session, to be included, within the framework of the codecision procedure, in the creation of the future Agency for Fundamental Rights.
As the rapporteur and on behalf of the committee that it is my honour to chair, I call upon the President of the European Parliament to submit these demands to the next European Council and to the future British Presidency.
Someone has to take responsibility for that. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Cavada.
Your requests will be duly dealt with by the Presidency. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, there are two reports left: the Gaubert report and the Bowis report.
If you are in agreement, and only if you are in agreement, we could postpone the vote on these two reports until tomorrow. &#160;&#160; If those Members of the European Parliament who are members of the did not take part in the vote on the motion of censure, it was not because of political sympathy with the Commission but because the motion was ill presented and ill conceived.
We would have been quite prepared to censure Mr&#160;Barroso for his political actions and, in particular, for the obstinacy that allows the Commission to disregard the very clear vote expressed recently both by the French people and the Dutch people.
Consequently, we feared that hastiness might undermine the motion of censure, which has to be reserved only for the very serious circumstances for which my group has decided to use it in future. &#160;&#160; There are 90 of us who, as MEPs, have signed a motion of censure on the Commission, because it was the only way we had of getting the President of the Commission to come here to Parliament and explain the connection between a gift of a holiday worth between EUR&#160;20&#160;000 and EUR&#160;25&#160;000 and a subsequent decision to provide EUR&#160;10&#160;million in regional aid to his friend Spyros Latsis, 54th on the list of the world’s richest people.
We were given an explanation, but Parliament’s President has in the meantime decided that, contrary to our wishes, we must vote on the motion.
In Mr Barroso's case, being the President of the European Commission, doubts about such corporate links have arisen.
If we would have had the freedom to withdraw or postpone the motion of censure, we would have done so.
The Commission and its President have been involved in very important work in the context of the debate on the Financial Perspective.
Those responsible have an outlook that errs not by going against the grain but by simply being against, without bringing any positive proposal to the table.
Ethical requirements go hand in hand with a responsible attitude, which is clearly not the case with this Motion of Censure. &#160;&#160; The reason I voted in favour of the Böge report was because I believe it is necessary to demonstrate the EU’s ability to take action through its institutions after the failed referenda in France and the Netherlands.
As an equal to the Council, Parliament clearly formulated its political priorities in relation to the Financial Perspective.
The fact that cohesion funding will be maintained at 4% of GDP is of great importance for the new Member States, as they stand to receive a substantial amount of funding for cohesion and structural measures.
The Böge report represents an acceptable compromise between the generous proposal by the Commission and the inadequate proposal by the Council.
The challenge that the Council faces is to enable negotiations on the Financial Perspective to be concluded while Luxembourg still holds the presidency, and at any rate no later than by the end of this year, by means of its unanimous approval at the June summit. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in relation to the Böge report I speak on behalf of my colleagues in the Irish delegation of the PPE-DE Group: Mrs Doyle, Mr Mitchell, Mr Coveney and Mr Higgins.
We congratulate Mr Böge on his report and we are happy with its broad thrust.
I believe that it sends out the wrong signal, at a time when public confidence in Europe is suffering, and that the common agricultural policy is damaged by any mention of cofinancing.
We have therefore voted to that effect. &#160;&#160; I am pleased with the position adopted by the European Parliament on the financial perspectives and I now only hope that the Council will do its duty and reach an agreement on the 17th.
But several of us have abstained on a matter of principle, and that is that we do not accept –– not even hypothetically –– any reopening of the 2002 agreement on the common agricultural policy.
We want it to remain closed until 2013, as has been agreed. &#160;&#160; .
the need to channel efforts into reaching an agreement with which most of Europe’s 453&#160;million citizens can identify, thereby ensuring unity in diversity; 4.
the fact that cohesion policy represents the EU’s internal solidarity and that, despite current limitations, this principle has at least been upheld; the Portuguese Socialists in Parliament voted in favour of the Böge report on the Financial Perspective 2007-2013. &#160;&#160; Tough prioritising of the European Union’s resources is crucially important to bringing about the changes needed by Europe.
Low taxes on work and enterprise are one precondition for turning Europe into a successful economy.
In order to reduce the EU’s budget, we wish to revise the agreement from 2002 concerning agricultural expenditure and to carry out an overhaul of regional aid, with priority instead being given to the poorest regions.
For these reasons, we have abstained in the final vote, rather than voted against Parliament’s proposal, significant parts of which we are able to support.
I voted against this report for the following reasons. 1.
It signals a departure from the only public policy that is genuinely European, at a moment in our history when Europe needs to become stronger by sharing its strengths.
Giving in to national misgivings would further widen the gap between Europe and its nations. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Wohlin’s written reservation concerning Mr&#160;Böge’s report, together with Mrs&#160;Goudin’s speech in Parliament on 7&#160;June 2005, helpfully sum up why the June List has chosen to vote against this report.
The EU must fulfil its commitments towards the ten new Member States, but room is made for this expenditure within the present expenditure framework.
The difference between our demand for 1.00% and the European Parliament’s (and the Commission’s) proposal lies in the fact that the EU-15 (with the exceptions of Greece and Portugal) have, in particular, to forgo aid from the Cohesion Fund.
The June List welcomes the initiative in terms of cofinancing and hopes that this will open the way to future renationalisation of, for example, agricultural policy.
By rejecting the Constitution, both France and the Netherlands have shown that they prefer less, rather than more, supranationalism.
A Swedish veto in the Council against a bad compromise is a better alternative than a new long-term budget.
We say no because we are opposed to any move to help the most economically developed countries – or rather their large economic and financial groups – to derive, once again, the lion’s share of the political and economic benefit from the EU, serving their interests ahead of the interests of Portugal and the Portuguese people.
We say no because what we need is to make a clean break from the EU’s neoliberal policies and, on the basis of cooperation between equal sovereign States, to foster sustainable economic development, create jobs and combat persistently high levels of unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and income inequality.
Explanations of vote.
We are in favour of the creation of a Baltic Strategy for the European Union, but it should be part of the Northern Dimension.
We would have liked those who tabled the amendment to agree to an oral amendment, which would have clearly highlighted the importance of the Northern Dimension and the Baltic Strategy as a vital part of it. &#160;&#160; .
In the course of numerous debates, however, each Member of the European Parliament acknowledged that Natura 2000 was an integral part of European Union policy, that the first experiments in managing sites had produced very positive results and, better still, they had made it possible to lay the foundations for sustainable development in areas of important biological value.
The report mentions the EUR&#160;21 billion needed to continue to run Natura 2000 for 2007-2013 but there was not a single line of the budget that referred to this figure in the forecasts of expenditure.
An amendment adopted in plenary even managed to remove Natura 2000 from the funding for fishing.
This indicates that there is no policy in a position to contribute to the setting up of Natura 2000.
The only remaining hope for nature conservation now rests with the LIFE+ fund.
Now is not the time to ask for more money from Member States when the public perceives the EU budget as a 'black hole'.
Instead, the EU should do less but do it better.
The EU must manage the funding it receives in a more transparent and cost-effective manner, targeted towards stimulating economic growth and prosperity across Europe.
Economic and rural development benefit from it, and a healthy natural and cultural landscape is guaranteed.
Farmers must continue to be guaranteed financial support through the common agricultural policy, and the EU’s long-term financial planning must reflect this.
No provision is as yet being made for more funding to be allocated to the CAP in order to take account of this enlargement; on the contrary, the draft envisages a reduction in, or capping of, resources.
If the benefits of the common agricultural policy are to be retained, it may in future be necessary to ask the Member States to bear their share of the costs, for it is not acceptable that farmers should foot the bill for the European Union’s enlargement, and that funds for other policies should be quarried from the agricultural budget. &#160;&#160; I am abstaining from voting on this report for the following reasons. - I am in favour of a stronger, more political Europe.
It is difficult for the European Parliament to put forward a figure for the general budget that is below that proposed by the Commission.
It is difficult to want more Europe without an adequate budget.
Money spent collectively on democracy, the environment, the provision of public services, social security and international solidarity is money well spent.
A society that omits to set aside resources for this purpose is permanently in crisis.
The European Parliament costs a great deal of money unnecessarily, with vast amounts being reimbursed in expenses and on account of its permanent commuting between two cities.
As long as this situation persists, we have little reason to actively oppose those who want to reduce spending to 1%, even if we condemn their often selfish views and arguments. &#160;&#160; .– It is an insult to debate the financial perspectives for 2007-2013, when their declared aim is to implement the new Constitutional Treaty which has been rejected, condemned and is dead.
The peoples of France and the Netherlands condemned on the basis of their experience of life the European and government policy which brings austerity, unemployment, inflation and uncertainty through capitalist restructurings as promoted in the financial perspectives for 2007-2013.
This is the direction they are taking, in order to safeguard the profits of and reinforce European capital and the plutocracy in each country, strike at grass-roots rights and reinforce the militarisation of the ΕU and, of course, there are numerous appropriations for propaganda and for diverting the workers from their real interests.
The positive outcome of these referenda for the peoples of the ΕU, which – and this is your pseudo-democracy – you disdain in your stand, cannot be reversed by a decision on the financial perspectives which the parliamentary group of the Communist Party of Greece will vote against.
Nor can I vote against the report, however, because what it proposes is more favourable than what the Presidency of the Council had proposed – according to what is in the public domain – and certainly more than what the six largest contributors to the Community budget are proposing, namely to reduce the Union Budget to 1% of Community GDP.
My vote should therefore be seen as a vote in favour of continuing talks so that the EU’s obligations on cohesion and solidarity can be met, and so that the financial needs arising from the enlargement and from a broader range of powers can be met, without that resulting in directing losses for the other budget headings, such as the Structural Funds allocations. &#160;&#160; .– Restore confidence, make Europe into something better, not bigger – this is one of the key messages the majority of citizens of France and the Netherlands delivered to their leaders last week.
This is also one of our priority tasks: to redefine our project and our very identity, and to make better use of the resources we want to devote to it.
In its review both the social and environment legs of the Lisbon Strategy have been demoted in favour of an EU brand of competitiveness.
I voted against Amendment 28 because it would allow the EU to backtrack on commitments of support to farmers by forcing countries to co-finance schemes such as the Single Farm Payment.
Against this backdrop, I endorse the objectives tabled in the report before us.
I believe that interinstitutional cooperation has, moreover, resulted in a solution that is reasonable, balanced and potentially workable. &#160;&#160; Current rules on excise duty are sometimes unclear and difficult to apply.
We therefore welcome the Commission’s overhaul of the rules governing products subject to excise duty.
We therefore chose today to vote against the European Parliament’s legislative resolution which, to a large degree, also supported the worse parts of the Commission’s proposal.
We believe that only those products transported by private individuals themselves should be regarded as private imports and thus be exempted from taxation in their own countries.
It must be possible for both tobacco and alcohol to be exempted from the general rule that excise duty must be paid in that Member State in which products acquired for private use are consumed.
The reason for our attitude is that tobacco and alcohol are damaging to public health and should not therefore be treated like any old products.
We believe that it should be possible to have separate excise duties on products that damage our environment.
We therefore welcome the Commission’s overhaul of the rules governing products subject to excise duty.
We therefore chose today to vote against the European Parliament’s legislative resolution which, to a large degree, also supported the worse parts of the Commission’s proposal.
We believe that only those products transported by private individuals themselves should be regarded as private imports and thus be exempted from taxation in their own countries.
It must be possible for both tobacco and alcohol to be exempted from the general rule that excise duty must be paid in that Member State in which products acquired for private use are consumed.
The reason for our attitude is that tobacco and alcohol are damaging to public health and should not therefore be treated like any old products.
We believe that it should be possible to have separate excise duties on products that damage our environment.
What is more, transport and modes of transport are safer for being managed professionally. &#160;&#160; For public health reasons, I have chosen today not to support Mr&#160;Rosati’s report on amending the directive on the general arrangements for products subject to excise duty, such as alcohol and tobacco.
Neither the Commission’s proposal nor the European Parliament’s report safeguard public health to the degree I believe is desirable.
Rightly used, and in conjunction with other measures, indicative guide levels can play an important role in establishing whether products are held for commercial purposes or for the personal use of private individuals.
Special efforts should also be made to harmonise excise duty levels with the express objective of reducing the harm caused by tobacco and alcohol. &#160;&#160; Through this proposal, both the Commission and the European Parliament wish in practice to remove the opportunities that exist for importing limited quotas of alcohol and tobacco.
The June List therefore chooses to abstain from voting on the committee’s amendments because a ‘no’ vote would entail support for the Commission’s proposal.
The June List thus supports the Swedish, Finnish and Danish position in the Council.
Moreover, this report on distance purchasing ignores the related concept of e-commerce.
Secondly, Member States should be allowed to set excise duty rates themselves.
In meeting the citizens’ concerns for more freedom and more security, a legal, and more importantly, political and institutional, balance must be struck.
This is with particular regard to three crucial questions: - credibility: I am aware of the difficulties and delays that have come to light in a number of areas.
This demonstrates that there is much to do in order to raise the level of trust among the Member States.
I do not agree, however, that the best course of action is to develop initiatives outside the Community framework, such as Schengen+ (between seven Member States), which undermine the development of mutual trust among the Member States. - legitimacy: The low levels of democratic legitimacy are appalling.
Lastly, maintaining current legislation in the expectation that the Constitutional Treaty would be ratified has served to exacerbate the existing democratic shortfall.
There are a number of aspects that should have, but have not, been addressed, such as the democratic supervision of Europol and Eurojust. &#160;&#160; The June List believes that police cooperation and legal cooperation should be intergovernmental, that criminal law should not be harmonised at EU level and that no European Prosecutor’s Office should be set up.
Immigration and asylum policy must go on being conducted at national level in order to avoid creating a Fortress Europe.
Moreover, the Member States themselves should determine how their democratic institutions are to be designed, taking account of the Copenhagen criteria and the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
I voted in favour, however, because I feel that at the heart of this report is the conviction and the awareness that without cooperation, without trust and without a certain Community element in certain areas of internal policy, it will not be possible to achieve the objectives of the area of freedom, justice and security, especially as regards preventing and combating crime and terrorism, which is one of its most significant aspects. &#160;&#160; The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of the resolution on an area of freedom, security and justice.
It does, of course, become a problem when these terms occur in repressive legislation, which is what is being recommended here.
That is how Belgium’s largest political party came to be condemned partly on the basis of a text on female circumcision.
According to the judge, that text was not published to improve the situation of women in Islam, but to stigmatise Islam.
The report speaks, and I quote, in terms of ‘profoundly racist, anti-Semitic, islamophobic and homophobic statements and actions by prominent politicians and members of government’.
The reality is, however, that nearly all anti-Semitic incidents can be traced back to Islamic immigrants.
The reality is that so-called discrimination is often the result of a lack of willingness to integrate on the part of immigrants.
I voted against the Moraes report because of the unacceptability to me of Paragraphs 22 and 24.
I believe a Member State has the right to reject such partnerships as not equal to heterosexual relationships.
A good example of a directive that makes no mention of such issues is the Equal Treatment in Employment and Occupation Directive (2000/78/EC).
Worded in such a way, this right of parents is a universally recognised in international law.
The protection of minorities is of major importance, especially following the last enlargement, which gave rise to a larger number of Member States with a huge cultural and linguistic diversity.
Community legislation and policy must be in a position to support the efforts made by these Member States to address the problems faced by minorities, such as promoting their inclusion and involvement.
All forms of discrimination are unacceptable, but we cannot force any Member State to change its legislation to accept situations that run counter to their moral and cultural traditions.
The subsidiarity principle must be upheld and the responsibility shared by the Union and the Member States on this issue of human rights must be fulfilled. &#160;&#160; It is important to have an efficient anti-discrimination policy, as well as effective protection of minorities.
These are, however, issues that, in accordance with the Copenhagen criteria, it is up to each Member State to deal with, so they should not be decided about at EU level.
The June List believes that it is the Council of Europe and the European Court of Justice that should take care of political and/or legal supervision. &#160;&#160; .– The parliamentary group of the Panhellenic Socialist Party at the European Parliament will be voting in favour of the Moraes report.
A good example of a directive that makes no mention of such issues is the Equal Treatment in Employment and Occupation Directive (2000/87/EC).
Worded in such a way, this right of parents is universally recognised in international law.
In view of these decisions by Parliament, I have decided to vote against the report and the resolution. &#160;&#160; . – The report 'on the protection of minorities and anti-discrimination policies in an enlarged Europe' contains everything except the basic fact that the discrimination in the EU against women, young people, ethnic immigrant minorities, the disabled etc.
It refers to numerous forms of actual discrimination in the workplace against women and young people, but passes in silence over the high rates of unemployment and the inhumane, flexible forms of employment applied mainly to young people and women, as a result of Lisbon-type strategies.
The report passes in silence over the scandalous discrimination against the Russian minority in the Baltic States, despite the fact that the Communist Party of Greece has repeatedly raised the problem in the European Parliament.
This is precisely what has happened in the report before us.
The group to which I belong tabled a number of amendments that would have turned the report into a series of acceptable and positive proposals.
I feel that on issues such as these, I repeat, both shortfall and surplus are detrimental.
On a number of occasions we have expressed our support for the contents of the report of the UN Secretary-General, Mr Kofi Annan, presented on 21 March of this year, and the preparatory reports on which it was based.
These reports are in line with the general approach set out in the European security strategy, and open up some promising avenues towards a stronger and more effective multilateralism.
The European Union supports the global concept of collective security recommended by the Secretary-General, recognising that threats to peace and security are not only represented by war, international conflicts, riots, organised crime, terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, but also by poverty, under-development, deadly epidemics and environmental damage – in particular the issue of global warming.
The European Union gives its agreement in principle to the package of measures presented by the Secretary-General, while at the same time maintaining an open mind.
It intends to play a leadership role in the preparatory process for the September summit.
It is crucial to maintain a balance between the Secretary-General’s three major objectives of development, security and human rights.
The challenge is, therefore, to achieve a critical mass of reforms within a consistent long-term approach, while at the same time holding out the possibility of further progress later on.
As regards development, the European Union fully shares the Secretary-General’s view on the interdependence of the various areas involved.
It would also emphasise unambiguously that development is an end in itself, not merely a means to achieve security.
It emphasises the link between achieving the Millennium goals and the implementation of the results of UN international conferences and summits in the economic, social, environmental and other spheres.
The Union would like a certain number of matters of vital importance for the achievement of the Millennium goals to be taken into due account in the conclusions of the summit.
We also attach particular importance to joint and collective action to combat AIDS.
We want to reflect jointly on the link between environmental viability, security and the elimination of poverty.
With regard to the various security-related aspects, the European Union strongly supports the idea of creating a peace consolidation committee.
This is a priority for the Union, and an agreement on this issue at the September summit is vital.
During the migration from a state of war to a state of lasting peace, this peace consolidation committee could help intensify the UN-led planning activity in support of a lasting recovery, while at the same time strengthening the institutions which guarantee the rule of law and good governance.
In parallel, it could play a significant role in the prevention of subsequent conflicts, which is often an important factor in cementing a lasting peace.
This peace consolidation committee would be a permanent body which could assist the Security Council and Ecosoc during the various phases of the conflict.
The committee should also help to ensure that reconstruction and peace-keeping strategies are consistent.
In relation to the prevention of terrorism, the Union supports the global strategy proposed by the Secretary-General both in his report and in his Madrid speech.
The Union would point out that the five pillars of the Secretary-General’s proposed approach coincide with the strategy which the Union has been developing since the 11 September 2001 attacks, and which it subsequently reaffirmed following the tragic events in Madrid.
The European Union also supports the Secretary-General’s recommendations in relation to non-proliferation and disarmament – recommendations which, in general terms, coincide with the approach in the European strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
As it will only be possible to achieve results through a collective effort, the Union is ready to take initiatives in that direction, in a multilateral context, and to raise these issues during its regular contacts and political dialogue in order to convince its partners to take account of these recommendations as well.
The Union also intends to take an active part in the development of binding international instruments to regulate the marking, tracing and illicit dealing in small-calibre arms and light weapons, issues we have already had the opportunity of discussing during sittings of this Parliament.
The Union reiterates its hope that adoption of the principle of the responsibility to protect can become one of the major priorities of the summit.
The Union supports the efforts of the Secretary-General to adopt and apply the principle of the responsibility to protect the potential or actual victims of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and other mass violations of human rights.
The criteria proposed are political rather than legal in nature and should reflect a broad international consensus, which should prove helpful to members of the Security Council in their deliberations which could potentially lead to the use of force.
I should like to applaud the importance accorded to human rights and the rule of law in the Secretary-General’s report.
The Union supports any proposal to reinforce democracy and to place human rights at the centre of the UN's system.
Sixty years after the war and after the creation of the United Nations, the time has come to give fresh impetus to multilateralism, to reform the United Nations system, a system vital for global security, harmonious development of all nations and the consolidation of peace.
I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Laschet, on his report.
The summit represents an opportunity to take decisions leading to a more efficient United Nations and one that is better equipped to deal with the challenges of the 21st century.
In the last three weeks President Barroso and Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner have both been to New York, where they held constructive discussions on the summit preparations with the UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, his deputy, Louise Fréchette, and the President of the UN General Assembly, Ambassador Ping.
During those talks, all the parties underlined the need for continuous and strong EU leadership in the preparations for the summit, in order to achieve substantial results in September.
The Commission, together with the presidency and Member States, is thus reaching out to partners, both in New York and in capitals throughout the world.
The active involvement of Parliament in mobilising other parliamentarians around the world on the summit agenda would also be extremely useful.
On 3 June we received the draft outcome for the summit, which provides us with a good starting point but nonetheless requires a strong European Union input if we are to achieve ambitious results during the September summit.
I am glad to see that the views expressed in the resolution tabled by this Parliament are similar to those of the Commission in many respects.
As the UN Secretary General's report correctly states and as is underlined in Parliament's resolution, progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) requires urgent attention.
On 24 May the European Council agreed the Commission's ambitious proposals to achieve collectively 0.56% of GNI for ODA by 2010 and 0.7% by 2015.
This is an important step forward for international solidarity and a clear sign of the European Union's commitment to a successful summit.
Allow me to address a few of the UN reform proposals on the table that are of particular interest for reinvigorating the effectiveness of the United Nations.
The Commission has been actively engaged in the discussions on the proposed Peace Building Commission, which could fill the very real gap that currently exists within the UN institutional machinery for dealing with the period between the end of a conflict and long-term sustainable development.
The Commission supports as broad a mandate as possible for the Peace Building Commission, including support for democracy, functioning institutions and strengthening the rule of law.
The European Community's longstanding, worldwide and sustained peace building efforts are well known.
Obviously the issue of reforming the Security Council is one of the high-profile elements of the current UN reform debate.
Whilst Security Council reform is naturally an issue of great importance, it must not be allowed to stall the whole process of vital reform of other UN institutions or other important areas where progress is needed.
The Commission fully supports better environmental integration across the UN system, including the establishment of a UN Environmental Organisation, and is delighted to see that the European Union is coming together on this.
If we are to combat terrorism, to address the problems of failing states, if we are to deal with the world’s shifting climate and to campaign for human rights and democracy around the world, then we need a strong United Nations.
If there are to be new seats of whatever kind, we want them to go to the European Union, which will then appoint its representatives in the Security Council.
A stronger United Nations is the right response to the challenges that the international community faces in the 21st century.
It may be that a mechanism is already being devised for its non-permanent members whereby the European Council would mandate Member States to perform this duty on the European Union’s behalf and in consultation with its institutions.
Now is the time for the package to be wrapped up! &#160;&#160; .
To address acute dangers such as the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, there is a need not only for clearly defined and internationally recognised rules, but also the political will to act.
Its General Assembly must become more productive; rather than mounting, year in and year out, repetitively vacuous debates without concrete results, it must get back to debating things that really matter.
On 24&#160;June, the Committee on Foreign Affairs put before the House a resolution it had adopted on this subject.
The mechanism to which Mr Laschet referred is one that we have devised together; it involves the European seats being allocated in close consultation with the EU.
There are four major and crucial aspects of this reform in which we must make progress.
It would be a very good thing if the discussion on the expansion of the Security Council were to enable Europe to get a seat on it, resulting in a real structural change in the way in which Europe’s policies are represented.
The second is the process of transforming international development policy into an international structural policy in the true sense of the word.
The fourth point is an important one: the Human Rights Commission should be upgraded to a permanent council on human rights elected by the General Assembly.
Upholding democracy also means guaranteeing transparency and participation, not only by national governments, but also by the people and civil society.
Mr&#160;Laschet’s report is important, as is the ability of our Parliament to strive towards strengthening and coordinating the United Nations.
I agree with his proposals: strengthening the commitment towards human rights, protecting nature and the environment, combating poverty and strengthening the European Economic and Social Committee (ECOSOC).
Finally, I would like to highlight a fundamental issue, that is, the complete anachronism of the Security Council and its anti-democratic nature, which is symbolised by the right of veto.
As for Europe, it is represented in the UN by non-permanent rotating members and by two major powers holding a right of veto, namely Great Britain and France.
Our separatist French delegation will not take part in the vote tomorrow as a sign of protest against the determination of this Parliament to act as if it could encroach on the States’ prerogatives, and, worse still, to act as if there had been no referendum, or, in other words, as if the Constitution was not dead.
National egoisms need to be put to one side if we are to offer the European Union a credible political future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the absolute necessity to reform the United Nations, and the Security Council in particular.
We condemn plans to reform the Security Council like the so-called ‘G4 plan’, as Mrs&#160;Angelilli pointed out, which would result in weakening the main body of the United Nations and freezing it in its current difficulties.
In order for something like that to exist, however, a common European foreign policy is required, and I believe that we are still very far from reaching that objective.
In these dark days for Europe, I am happy to see this rare moment of convergence between the Council, the Commission and our Parliament.
Mr President, I should like to give you a message for the Presidency.
We can try to reform the United Nations, but it would be better to start by reforming ourselves.
Our work is badly organised.
We need one or two major debates in plenary session each month in this building and, apart from that, everything should be discussed in committees.
I would therefore say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council – begging your pardon for representing a Parliament of which I am basically a little ashamed – that my main concern is that by defending this good report and all the good work we do together in Europe, you might be aiming at the wrong target.
It is true that Europe has its reasons for wanting a seat on the Security Council.
Concentrate on the innovative aspects – and only on them – and we shall have done a good job. &#160;&#160; Mr President, like my colleagues, I believe that –– as is the case with the European Union –– if the United Nations Organisation did not exist, it would have to be invented.
I believe that, at this time when world military spending has risen to one billion dollars per year while at the same time the States do not provide money for the Millennium objectives, this review is more necessary than ever. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the recent Brok report argued that the EU as a whole should play a major role within the UN.
The PPE-DE Group amendment to the report demanded that the EU should be guaranteed a seat in the UN Security Council.
That word ‘guaranteed’ is incompatible with the UN High-level Panel’s view that no change in the composition of the Security Council should be regarded as permanent in the future.
However, even Mr Brok’s report conceded that an increased role for the EU was pending the entry into force of the new Constitutional Treaty.
The Constitution is dead; the EU has no legal personality; Europe is not a nation and the EU, therefore, has no place in the United Nations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we must never forget that the collective interest is the national interest, especially in a world full of terrorism.
Corruption and a lack of transparency erode public support.
For the first time, Internet technology has made it possible to bring transparency into the raising of international aid funding in the donor countries and the delivery of aid in the recipient countries.
A closer involvement by citizens through the Internet will create a new driving force for the effective delivery of aid and for holding governments, the United Nations and other NGOs accountable.
The United Nations Commission on Human Rights must be replaced with a stronger human rights council, with membership barred to nations with poor human rights records.
Finally, the United Nations must return to its roots.
It must become the three pillars: peace and security, justice and human rights, and development. &#160;&#160; First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Laschet on his excellent report and the UN working group that was also involved in drafting it.
We must not forget that efforts to reform the UN and the common security and institutional reforms aimed at promoting the realisation of the Millennium Development Goals, closely complement one another.
The dangers are imminent and complex; successful implementation of reforms is more urgent now than it has ever been. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I shall devote these few words to an extremely important issue, namely the reform of the United Nations programme for human rights.
I am delighted to see – not only here in Parliament but also in the Commission and the Council – that the general outline of a reform of the UN’s instruments assessing human rights is emerging and, moreover, that it corresponds to the work now being undertaken, by which I mean the package proposed by the UN Secretary-General and also the action plan which has just been submitted to Kofi Annan by the High Commissioner, Mrs Louise Arbour.
Because it will provide us with a body able to apply permanent pressure on countries violating human rights, and, as we have just said, these violations are a permanent threat to security, development and peace.
With regard to the increase in the resources available to the High Commissioner’s office, I believe everyone is in agreement.
I think we shall also have to look at the substance of the activity of this Council and at the way it works: in that area, the reference that the European Parliament’s report makes to peer group assessment – namely assessment by other countries – which is a transparent, just and equitable appraisal system for all countries, helping to avoid the charge of double standards, appears an absolutely fundamental one. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the EU Member States have different views on how the UN system should be reformed.
Allow the Member States to discuss this matter with other UN members.
This debate should not be conducted within the framework of EU cooperation but in a broader international context.
No single country or single group of countries can say everything, but rather we need a multilateral approach, and multilateralism requires representative and effective institutions.
Hence the importance and the need for a reform of the United Nations.
Secondly, the reform of the United Nations Security Council, the body that is essential to maintaining international peace and security.
One essential objective clearly taken up in Mr Laschet’s report, is that the European Union itself should sit on the Security Council of the United Nations.
This objective is entirely consistent with the idea of a common foreign and security policy, and it will be even more so if the constitutional treaty enters into force.
But if the model that is finally accepted in New York is that of allowing new permanent members, I believe that the new seat should be for the European Union.
I find it particularly striking that, at a time when so much is being said about a common foreign and security policy, or a future foreign affairs minister, this issue, surprisingly, is not being debated in the Council of the Union; the European Union's presence on the United Nations Security Council is not being debated in the Council and, today, the representative of the Council – I do not know if he is listening – appears not to have mentioned this issue.
Thirdly, I am pleased that the report stresses the fight against terrorism and, in this regard, I will not just emphasise Resolution 1373, but also the importance of assisting the victims of terrorism.
New international problems and challenges threaten world peace and stability.
The international system is governed by the omnipotence of the United States and its unilateral perception of how to resolve international problems.
The legitimising role of the UN has been reduced, while its efficacy and credibility have been dangerously weakened.
That is why the reform of the UN system is a necessary precondition to a world of peace, freedom, democracy, growth and justice.
The report by the UN Secretary-General and his proposed reforms are a bold response to the challenges of our times.
The report by Mr Laschet also moves in this direction.
Crucial resolutions on peace and stability have not been applied on the pretext of serving the current international economic situation and the interests of the major powers.
Up to now we have been witnessing selective sensibilities in the application of UN resolutions and I think that this is a serious omission in Mr Laschet's report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kofi Annan stated that environmental damage, water shortages and the effects of climate change were now killing more people than terrorist attacks.
Because the environment is not a commodity, because environmental standards must take preference over trade, because legal relationships must be clarified when settling conflicts between the WTO and multilateral agreements on the environment within the United Nations system itself, the UN environmental programme must be transformed into a global environmental organisation, in order to protect our shared public asset, the earth.
We all agree that a strong and effective United Nations is for the benefit not only of the European Union but also of the international community as a whole.
As I have stated, our priorities are to secure greater success in the achievement of the Millennium Goals.
We are equally committed to seeing progress in the field of post-conflict situations and, therefore, we support the proposal for a peace-building commission as an instrument that will fill an existing gap between post-conflict situations and long-term sustainable peace.
Our commitment to human rights is unwavering and the proposals on the table for a human rights council will get our full support.
On climate change, we believe that the summit should call for more collaborative efforts to achieve the objectives of a UN climate change convention.
The summit should endorse the UN Secretary-General’s proposals to ensure concerted global action to mitigate climate change and develop a more inclusive international framework for climate change beyond 2012.
The Commission wholly endorses the contents of the UN Secretary-General’s report on the proposal for a comprehensive convention on terrorism and calls for Member States to agree a definition of terrorism.
The summit should echo the UN Secretary-General’s appeal for consensus on the legally binding convention on the marking and tracing of small arms and to expedite negotiations on an instrument on illicit brokering and the supply of arms.
The Commission further hopes that the summit will lead to the start of negotiations on an international arms trade treaty.
The Commission underlines the need to restore the political stature of the General Assembly, asserting its role as the main universal deliberative body.
We support a radical reform to render the body more operational and would like to see its role in all the pillars of sustainable development reinforced.
In conclusion, let me state that reform of the United Nations is not an exercise in institutional change for its own sake.
Our aim is to enhance the ability of this global organisation to meet the challenges of the 21st century in the interests of meeting the aspirations of the peoples of the United Nations.
I believe that the Council will take account of the suggestions, ideas and proposals emerging during this Parliamentary debate and also contained in this draft report.
I believe, as many of you have said, that the UN is an essential building block of a globalised world.
The European Union is best placed – or should be best placed – to show that multilateralism provides the answer to problems which can no longer be solved on a purely national basis.
I should also like to come back to the proposal concerning a fund for democracy.
The United Nations human rights system needs root-and-branch reform.
Too often – and we have discussed this on a number of occasions – developments which are almost absurd occur in the Commission on Human Rights.
And I believe that this is yet another area in which the European Union can be at the forefront of reform, encouraging it and achieving positive results and solutions. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It followed the visit of President Bush to the European institutions and came after what could be termed the ‘relaunch’ of those relations.
We are now in the preparatory phase for the forthcoming Euro-Atlantic summit, due to take place at the end of this month.
It is important that this summit should achieve concrete results so that the relaunch of dialogue, achieved during President Bush’s visit, can become a reality.
I therefore believe that on this extremely sensitive and delicate issue, we have been able to show that cooperation between the US and Europe can provide solutions, and above all that it can produce a consistent strategy, which is, incidentally, first and foremost, a European strategy.
The Union and the US are organising, and will jointly chair, a conference on the reconstruction of Iraq, to which I referred this morning.
This decision was announced during the visit of President Bush.
The announcement gave us the opportunity to show that we had left our disagreements on Iraq behind us.
The US and the Union have the same aims for that country, namely to help the Iraqi Government in its huge reconstruction effort and, above all, in reinforcing its security.
It will be a conference at ministerial level with over 80 delegations, a large number of which will be from the region concerned.
After several weeks of intense negotiations, we reached a solution acceptable to everyone, enabling the situation in Sudan to be referred to the International Criminal Court – and this without a US veto.
Here was yet another situation in which the European Union exercised a wholly positive influence in transatlantic relations, at the same time rendering multilateral action more effective.
Political dialogue between the European Union and the US has also become more frequent and more strategic on economic issues.
However, we must stress that major problems remain.
We are all aware of the case of Boeing and Airbus, and hope that, in the context of the forthcoming summit, we can still reach a satisfactory solution, thereby avoiding this matter being referred to the WTO and thus putting a damper on future Euro-Atlantic relations.
The start of this dialogue, therefore, must show our common interests and help the Union to strengthen its own strategic thinking on that important region, now emerging both as a political and, above all, as an economic force.
Dialogue between legislators is important and should be strengthened, particularly in view of the importance of the Senate in the sphere of foreign policy.
I therefore believe that the development of relations between this Parliament and the US Congress must be a goal of particularly high priority.
Mr President, these examples show the healthy condition of transatlantic cooperation in the last few months.
It is vital to work with our American partners on the challenges now facing us.
These various examples show that we can overcome our differences and adopt a shared approach.
Major preparatory work is therefore now underway for the forthcoming EU-US summit, due to take place in Washington on 21 June.
We are working on a number of draft declarations: the Middle East, international peace and security, the promotion of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights, but also Africa, the environment and economic relations.
In the same way as last year, we are hoping to use these declarations as a basis on which to work.
Like us, the Americans undoubtedly support the proposal to create a peace-building commission, but it now has to be given a more concrete and, above all, operational remit.
The European Union is ambitious in the field of economic relations, as I have just said.
The next EU Presidency – our Presidency will be over by then – will advise you of the results of this summit.
I would like to say at the outset that we share many of the views expressed in your motion for a resolution and welcome the support of the European Parliament for the strengthening of transatlantic relations.
As global partners, the EU and the United States must take the lead in building a prosperous and safe world and in promoting democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
We must work together to forge a common strategy to deal with global problems wherever possible.
That is the message our leaders will doubtless seek to convey at the upcoming June summit.
The EU-US summit on 20&#160;June will focus on three global themes: promoting democratic governance and human rights around the world, increasing economic prosperity for our citizens and championing security and development.
Promoting democracy and freedom is the essence of President Bush’s foreign policy in his second term.
European Union foreign policy, which is firmly based on the principles of the United Nations and the European Security Strategy, also aims to promote democracy, together with human rights and the rule of law.
The promotion of democracy remains key in the wider Middle East and in the Mediterranean region, where transatlantic cooperation has increased substantially over the past 12&#160;months.
Shortly after our summit in Washington, we and the United States will co-host an international conference in Brussels on Iraq.
This is an important signal of unified international support for the government and people in their difficult task of working towards stabilisation and reconstruction.
In Israel and Palestine, our cooperative approach within the Quartet is also intensifying.
But we can do more, and we want to.
In the field of regulatory cooperation, the idea is to find ways for regulators to engage with each other at an early stage to avoid unnecessary conflicts and costs, and to promote convergence.
The second strand, on promoting knowledge and innovation, is crucial for generating economic growth and jobs.
The third strand of our package is striking the right balance between heightened security requirements and the continuation of open trade and passenger transport.
Our communication also addresses the overall structure and goals of transatlantic relations.
The question we address is what the political profile of our relations should be 10&#160;years after the signature of the 1995 New Transatlantic Agenda and fifteen years after the 1990 Transatlantic Declaration.
The Commission stands ready to assist as necessary, but an initiative of this nature naturally has to come first and foremost from this House and from the United States Congress.
This reinforces our determination to work with the United States to spread the benefits of security in all its facets and to help release peoples everywhere from the daily tyranny of terrorism and violence.
The European Union is anxious to cooperate with the United States on crisis management, both civilian and military.
Our common agenda should prioritise the Millennium Development Goals.
We are taking an ambitious, forward-looking approach in developing our relations with the United States and are working actively in the areas mentioned in the draft resolution.
What makes the summit so very significant is that it resolves certain issues at the same time as setting certain processes in motion.
If they are capable of stimulating growth – and it is very important that they should, from the point of view of combating unemployment and improving the global situation as a whole – then they should do so within the bounds of a multilateral framework.
After all, consideration should be given to whether we might now be able to take a bold step forwards, and, instead of seeking the solution in the detail, mandating the Summit to examine, over the next 12 months, ways in which we can make progress in these areas.
The Americans have treaties with almost everyone on the face of the earth, as does the European Union, but there is no treaty between the United States and the European Union.
I would therefore call on the EU Member States and the US to table measures that can help restore confidence in the non-proliferation Treaty as a matter of urgency.
I am pleased to establish that the President of the Council is aware of the importance of this agenda item.
Although the need for reforms is being felt generally, the position of the United States is as yet unclear.
President Bush’s visit to the EU and a number of Member States seems to be heralding a new era.
More importantly, though, we seem to be united in terms of conditions to put an end to a difficult time in EU-US relations and to lay the foundations for renewed cooperation that must be based on mutual respect, equivalence and the determination to frame our joint efforts in the multilateral perspective of the United Nations, the World Trade Organisation and NATO.
The fact that we have entered a time of reflection and possible review after the referenda in France and the Netherlands must not be allowed to adversely affect the proceedings of the forthcoming Summit.
This expanded dialogue must also leave room for us to express our concerns about the unacceptable conditions in the prison of Guantanamo Bay or about the restriction of personal freedom and privacy that can be the result of unilateral security initiatives.
I would also like to say how glad I am that our American friends have not, following the failure of the EU’s Constitution to gain acceptance in France and the Netherlands, shown any pleasure in our misfortune.
There are, nevertheless, a number of defects in the motion for a resolution as presented, and it is for that reason that my group has tabled amendments to it, which I would now – briefly – like to present.
Only today, we read in the news reports that not even Tony Blair has managed to get the United States to make concessions where climate change is concerned; our American friends are still, lamentably, blocking the way to effective protection against climate change, at a time when we are becoming aware of just how strong the connection is between combating poverty on the one hand and protecting against climate change on the other.
In the US, Senator Biden has yet again highlighted how important it is in terms of our American friends’ public image that the prisoner of war camp in Guantánamo should be closed down.
Although I support this position, it is too restricted because it completely overlooks the eroding military balance in the state of Taiwan as well as the general regional stability in East Asia.
If, as appears to be the case, Brussels wants to give Washington sole and short-term responsibility for peace and security in the Far East, then a fresh crisis in transatlantic relations is looming in the distance in succession to Iraq.
I hope that at the EU-US Summit on 20 June, the Council will prove this sombre scenario wrong.
After all, as China’s key trading partner, the European Union ultimately owes it to itself to do this. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the main basis for the EU’s relations with the United States should be healthy economic competition.
The United States acts as a stabilising force in global politics.
Two years ago, President Chirac told the countries supporting US intervention in Iraq that they had missed a good opportunity to shut up.
Now that President&#160;Chirac and his predecessor, Mr&#160;Giscard&#160;d’Estaing, have plunged Europe into utter confusion as a result of premature support for the Constitution, thus shattering the vision of future common European policies, we in turn can say to the French President that he has missed a good opportunity to shut up, or, in his native tongue, ‘’ &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have talked about transatlantic relations many times in the past.
For example, we are all agreed that the fight against terrorism on the one hand, and the promotion of democracy and peace in the world on the other, can only be successful if our partnership with the United States is reinforced, based on the western values we share.
There is absolutely no point in paying lip service to democratisation in the rest of the world if, in practice, we do exactly the opposite by accommodating the wishes of a Chinese regime that is still as dictatorial as in the days when it crushed the protests on Tiananmen Square.
In this part-session, I have heard the situation in Guantanamo Bay being discussed in various debates.
We can only be delighted about the positive outcome of the subsequent visits of President Bush and Condoleezza Rice to Europe.
We must continue on this path, but if we talk about respect, then that respect should be mutual. &#160;&#160; – I should like to begin by congratulating the authors of the report on achieving a rare feat: they have drawn up a document that might prove very useful for the Washington Summit of 20&#160;June.
Whereas in Europe we have developed a multilateral concept of soft power, in other words diplomacy, economic sanctions and political sanctions, the United States has become more inclined, after 11&#160;September, towards hard power, namely the idea of unilateralism and of ‘with others if possible, by ourselves if necessary’.
Unless the EU and the United States can join forces on this issue, it will be very difficult to prevent this from happening, and the consequence will sooner or later be a form of protectionism that will itself be unbridled. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are, primarily, two things at issue here.
One is the need for the United States of America, and Europe, to use the wealth they have created to help those less well-off to achieve similar prosperity.
We also need, not only to take pride in the democracy and freedom that we have established in our own countries, but also to offer them to others as instruments of development.
We regard the Middle East as a very unstable region and a very important one.
We, Americans and Europeans alike, agree that everyone who lives in these countries needs democracy and development – free development in particular – as a means towards peace.
This makes it particularly important that Europe and the USA should cooperate with one another.
Let me reiterate, though, that the approach to be adopted must be that of enabling people to establish freedom and democracy in their own countries, without feeling that these have been imposed upon them.
There are many areas of work in which the shared values of both partners directly coincide.
The European Union has set up the unique Euro-Mediterranean Partnership: quieter, in-depth work, helping to establish the rule of law and rights-based legislation in North Africa and the Eastern Mediterranean.
Dialogue between these two key actors is not enough.
Our whole world is now riven by conflict and insecurity, from weapons of mass destruction, which sadly do exist, to the continued act of genocide in different countries.
We should therefore start work on a resolution on mutually beneficial, balanced and forward-looking relations.
The sources of modern arms for terrorist organisations, cooperation in removing nuclear weapons from the Middle East and ending support for terrorists in Central Asia, the Caucasus and Western and Central Africa.
We may criticise Turkey and Russia, however, and perhaps even Bangladesh.
Instances in the past when we joined forces, excellent examples of which include Iraq, Bosnia and Kosovo in the 1990s and, more recently, Afghanistan, should serve as a blueprint for our future military and political cooperation.
The significance of this cooperation is plain to see in Central and Eastern Europe, and NATO enlargement is proof that this region is regarded as a credible partner.
It is in Europe’s vital interests to prevent an economic war with the United States, and after all we are currently the two largest trade partners in the world.
The first of these is the fight against terrorism, and the second is the peaceful resolution of the Middle East conflict.
We must not forget that Asia is gaining ever more importance as a political and economic power in the shadow of the bizarre rivalry between America and Europe, and the conclusions we should draw from this are as follows.
We may well have grounds for complaint about the USA’s economic perfectionism, but we should still be more flexible on economic issues.
I believe that the new EU Member States, and in particular my own country, Poland, will know exactly what I mean. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the atmosphere has changed significantly since the visit of George W.
Bush to Brussels a few months ago, but it is interesting that in the international press this is not yet recognised.
It would be nice, Mr President-in-Office, if you could show, when you are in Washington with the Commission, that we can make a real step forward in EU-US relations.
Clearly there are a whole range of issues of a political and security nature on this agenda to which you have referred, particularly the political challenges dealing with democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
You have spoken about the cooperation between this House and that of the US Congress, the significant support in this House for this concept, and also for a broader partnership framework between the United States and Europe.
By these I mean particularly the proposals for cooperation in the negotiation of specific agreements, in the field of new technologies and, most especially, in research and safety.
All these things are right, proper and important.
One of the most significant obstacles we are currently facing is the restrictions on entry into the United States imposed on the citizens of certain EU Member States, or in other words visa restrictions.
It is now the Commission, and not the Member States or the Council, which takes the decision to impose sanctions on a third country.
It is therefore also the Commission’s duty to ensure that all citizens and all EU Member States enjoy equal rights.
Europe and America must speak with one voice on this issue, as they did during the Orange Revolution or when Dr&#160;Condoleezza Rice and Mr&#160;Solana made their recent declaration on support for the Belarussian opposition.
This is particularly true in the case of the Commission.
I believe that our attention should be focused on ensuring that the European Union and America speak with one voice and take joint action on issues relating to the promotion of democracy and human rights. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, one of the most important aspects of transatlantic relations is the European Union’s cooperation with the United States in support of democracy and human rights throughout the world.
The resurgence of democracy we are seeing in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, the Caucasus, Central Asia and Africa means that the European Union and the USA must coordinate their action to promote democratic values, to monitor free elections, to encourage the formation of political parties, trade unions and independent civil society organisations and to defend the freedom of the media.
At this moment in time, both the United States and the European Union must avoid a repeat of the genocide and ethnic cleansing that has taken place before the eyes of the whole world.
Its aim should be to bring about closer cooperation between the European Union and the United States in support of freedom, peace and security.
Wherever necessary, it should also provide for joint preventive action to forestall humanitarian or environmental disasters. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our resolution echoes the United Nations’ Millennium objectives.
We cannot ignore the outcome of this policy.
Reform of the United Nations system is another thorny issue, and no true UN reform is possible without US support.
In terms of development policy – as we have already heard, in part, in relation to the Bretton Woods institutions – the Americans, with the Europeans, can really change course and move towards the Millennium objectives in order to generate a new momentum.
A lot of work still has to be done in all these areas.
However, I believe that in future we must seriously consider whether it is time to provide a more precise and defined framework for transatlantic relations.
In any event, it is clear from your debates that the forthcoming summit is an important meeting, a meeting which must consolidate the progress made, which must continue to develop our relations in those areas where we have so far been unable to find common ground, and which must also cement the improvement in transatlantic relations which we have seen since the start of this year.
The Luxembourg Presidency, in any event, attaches great importance to this summit and we are very keen for it to be a success – a success for Europe.
On the economic front, much is in place already, but clearly more can be done and we are working together to move in that direction.
With regard to the Boeing-Airbus issue, it is unfortunate that last week the United States decided to leave the negotiating table and request a formal dispute settlement procedure in the WTO in respect of alleged subsidies provided to Airbus.
In turn, we decided to resume action in the WTO on the subsidies given to Boeing.
Commissioner Mandelson’s preferred solution since he took up office last November has been to settle the dispute through negotiations.
A negotiated solution may still eventually be reached following the WTO rulings, but at this point in time the Commission has to protect the interests of Airbus against Boeing.
Despite the regrettable escalation of this dispute, I am confident that recent developments will not affect our bilateral and multilateral cooperation.
On the issue of security measures, both the EU and the US have taken many steps to increase security.
On your repeated call for a transatlantic market to be completed by 2015, the Commission very much shares the objective of further enhancing our already flourishing bilateral EU-US economic relationship.
Equally, the recently published communication aims to boost EU-US trade and investment, and the creation of a regulatory cooperation forum foreseen by the communication would address regulatory obstacles.
This is an important step in the right direction.
We would like to see a substantial commitment to working towards a long-term international regime on climate change post-2012.
It needs also to be stressed that the transatlantic difficulties of the past were political and not institutional in nature.
That being said, there is a strong case for reviewing our existing structures and revamping and modernising the new transatlantic agenda of 1995 to adapt it to current needs.
Finally, and in conclusion, I should like to underline again that you are fundamental actors in this strategic alliance and we rely on your support to implement our common agenda.
Such an assembly could be held in conjunction with the summit. &#160;&#160; &#160;I have received five motions for resolutions(1) tabled pursuant to Rule&#160;103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The European Union’s efforts are currently focused on two aims, namely to put pressure on President Karimov for an international inquiry, and to assist the refugees in Kyrgyzstan.
In the longer term, however, we cannot neglect the need to promote democracy, the rule of law and human rights in the region, as well as to push ahead with internal reforms in Uzbekistan.
At the start of the events in Andijan, the Presidency published a statement, dated 14 May 2005, expressing serious concern at the situation and inviting the parties to refrain from violence and to find a peaceful solution.
The Council followed developments in Uzbekistan closely and discussed this issue at the highest level.
The Council expressed its grave concern at the latest developments in eastern Uzbekistan and roundly condemned the excessive and disproportionate use of force by the Uzbek security forces.
The Council urged the Uzbek authorities to comply with their international obligations in terms of democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
Additionally, the Council stressed the need to deal with the underlying causes of instability in the country through in-depth internal reforms to be implemented by the Uzbek authorities.
The Council will coordinate its action with the OSCE and other members of the international community such as the Russian Federation and the USA, in order to provide its support to the reform process.
On 1 June 2005, the local British presidency in Tashkent approached the Uzbek Foreign Minister, Mr Ganiev, asking him to request the Uzbek authorities to reconsider their rejection of an independent international inquiry and to draw his attention to the country’s international obligations.
The invitation by the Uzbek authorities to EU ambassadors resident in Tashkent to observe the national investigation into the events in Andijan, an inquiry to be conducted by the Public Prosecutor and the Uzbek Parliament, is not acceptable as a valid alternative to an independent international inquiry.
The Secretary-General/High Representative, Mr Solana, decided to send his personal representative on human rights, Mr&#160;Matthiessen, to Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
The Council views this episode as a very disappointing – indeed worrying – development in relations between the European Union and Uzbekistan.
Despite President Karimov’s continuing refusal to demands for an independent international inquiry into events in Andijan, the Council will continue to insist and, in conjunction with the OSCE, the UN and other international organisations will coordinate the operational procedures for such an inquiry, in the event that the Uzbek authorities reconsider their decision.
It is clear to the Commission that the people of Uzbekistan urgently need to work towards a peaceful and sustainable solution to the present situation.
The Commission notes the suggestion made by the Uzbek authorities in relation to the international inquiry contained in the letter of 31&#160;May from President Karimov to United States Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, a copy of which was sent to Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner.
It is essential that the Uzbek authorities immediately allow a full independent international inquiry into the recent events.
We have to be realistic about what can be achieved, but I believe that working, for example, with the Uzbek Parliament to help create a modern legislature is crucial to improving the lot of the Uzbek people.
What we have seen in Uzbekistan in recent weeks, following the events in Andijan – not only the appalling loss of life, but the response by the authorities to international criticism and the reported crack-down on human rights groups and defenders – only underlines how important it is to keep the reform process alive.
The Commission has already sent a delegation of officials to Uzbekistan to investigate what more we can do to support reforms and importantly, to improve living conditions in the Fergana Valley.
In the coming weeks, we shall be finalising our proposals to be implemented under the TACIS programme.
Our existing poverty reduction programme for the Fergana Valley works in all three countries – Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan – amongst which the valley is divided.
In the meantime, we will continue to work to the TACIS technical assistance programme to promote social and economic reforms, both at the governmental and grassroots civil society level.
In this context, the Commission is looking at a range of projects, including improving the management of prisons and treatment of detainees.
The Commission commends the cooperation between the authorities in Kyrgyzstan – who have been faced with a very difficult humanitarian situation – and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
It is crucial to stability in the region that economic growth should go hand in hand with true democracy and freedom of expression of opinion. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I support Parliament’s motion for a resolution, which echoes the Council’s position of 23 and 24 May of this year.
I shall not revert to the account of recent events in Uzbekistan, but I should like to reaffirm the need for a rapid and determined response by the European Parliament to the extremely serious situation for the local population, and particularly for the refugees.
In view of the tragic events in Andijan, I would firstly stress the overriding need to set up an international commission of inquiry as soon as possible, to clarify what happened and oblige the Karimov government to face up to its responsibilities.
The European Parliament must also urge Uzbekistan to implement in-depth reforms and put the country on the path to true democracy and economic development for the benefit of all of its citizens.
Respect for freedom of expression, and freedom of the press, but also freedom of NGOs, are preconditions for the smooth running of our partnership and cooperation agreements.
Honourable Members, today I urge you to show your support for a general resolution condemning the particularly violent reprisals undertaken by Uzbek President Islam Karimov [against protesters] in Andijan.
Although the Tulip Revolution in Kyrgyzstan raises some hopes for a long-term democratic process, the latest events in the Uzbek town of Andijan and the following reactions of neighbouring Central Asian republics are a matter of great concern to us.
The European Parliament cannot stay aloof.
We need to know what has happened and what is happening now in order for adequate measures to be taken.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: the priorities of our Parliament should continue to target the prevention of violence and bloodshed.
The human rights organisation Human Rights Watch, having interviewed 50 witnesses, all of whose statements concurred, described the result as ‘a massacre’.
Uzbekistan has no historic traditions of democracy or good governance, having been ruled in the distant past by Khanates, followed by Tsarists and Soviet Russia, only to find itself unexpectedly a sovereign state in 1991, following the disintegration of the Soviet Union.
There can be no doubt that President Karimov has ruled in an authoritarian way and human rights abuses have been common, particularly against the Islamic movement of Uzbekistan, a close ally of the then Taliban in Afghanistan but now largely defeated or replaced by the nominally peaceful, although still fundamentalist, Hizb ut-Tahrir, which rather surprisingly has offices in the European Union to gather funds and recruit supporters.
During the recent debate on the Coveney human rights report, I tried to strike a balance between the stick of Uzbekistan-bashing and the carrot of more dialogue with the Uzbek President if he continues to cooperate with fighting international terrorism and delivers on his commitment to give independence to the judiciary, freedom to the press and punishment to those responsible for torture and human rights abuses.
I find the very idea that the West and Europe consider Islam Karimov an ally to be genuinely concerning, because no one who uses terrorist methods against his own people can be considered an ally.
If this does not succeed, it could lead to destabilisation not just in Uzbekistan, but also in the wider region of Central Asia.
Demands for an independent international investigation have already been expressed by the UN through the High Commissioner for Human Rights, by the European Union through its Council and by the OSCE through the Chairman-in-Office of that organisation.
I am convinced that the exceptionally complex state of affairs cannot be attributed simply to terrorism or religious fundamentalism.
The government of President Karimov uses this spectre, this more or less genuine threat from fundamentalists, as a way of keeping his oppressive regime in power.
Far from destabilising the country, this solidarity must be a way of stabilising it in order to foster democracy, because that is our aim.
The Commission also remains active in the humanitarian situation.
We are in close contact with the UNHCR in order to have an assessment of the situation with those who have fled to the border area.
ECHO is monitoring the situation on the ground and, should the need arise, the Commission would be able to quickly mobilise humanitarian assistance.
The Commission has already allocated EUR 3 million of assistance to the Uzbek enclaves in Kyrgyz territory for poverty reduction, cross-border cooperation and avoidance of an escalation of tension in this volatile area.
We will keep up the pressure on the Uzbek authorities to institute necessary reforms and establish a democratic society.
We will continue to call for an international inquiry into recent events and to press President Karimov to reconsider his position.
Whilst we are convinced of the need to keep up the pressure on the Uzbek authorities to allow an international investigation and to take real and concrete action in the field of human rights and democracy, we believe that we must remain engaged in a channel of communication in order to remedy the situation effectively. &#160;&#160; &#160;I have received six motions for resolutions(1) tabled pursuant to Rule&#160;103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
During 1995 and 1996, the European Parliament took the lead in the fight against this type of fraud and set up an enquiry committee, which, with John Tomlinson as chairman and Edward Kellett-Bowman as rapporteur, catalogued the problems that occurred during transit and proposed solutions to them.
The excellent work by the enquiry committee, the research work of our anti-fraud services Uclaf and Olaf, the Cigarette Fraud Task Force and the careful cooperation between customs and police services are now resulting in major networks being rounded up.
In November 2000, the Community lodged a civil complaint before the Court of New York against Philip Morris and Reynolds on account of suspected involvement in the smuggling of cigarettes into the European Union.
Ten Member States joined this lawsuit between January and April 2001.
This multi-annual agreement was signed on 9 July 2004 and aims to fight the smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes in an effective manner.
It represents a departure in terms of anti-fraud policy and ensures that Philip Morris and the European authorities can combine their efforts and work together more closely.
It is likely that this innovative approach will lead to similar agreements being concluded with the other two main tobacco giants 'British American Tobacco' and 'Japan Tobacco' within the not too distant future.
The budgetary authority in the European Union has two arms, namely the Council of Ministers and Parliament.
In actual fact they should mainly be used to combat fraud.
I am also expecting a progress report from the Commission, possibly behind closed doors, about the negotiations with British American Tobacco and Japan Tobacco.
Finally, only on this basis and on the basis of the agreements we conclude can we continue the debate.
I can also confirm to the honourable Member the Council’s full agreement with the need to step up the fight against all types of contraband which have developed in recent years.
In that context we should also welcome the agreement between the Commission, ten Member States and the Philip Morris company.
The Council has noted, as you emphasised, that the agreement includes the possibility for Member States to use these funds to finance actions to combat fraud.
This includes the payment of USD 1.25 billion to the European Community and participating Member States over 12 years.
The agreement underlines the importance of anti-fraud policies and is regarded as a major success for the Commission and OLAF.
Austria, Ireland, Malta and Poland have recently signed and we hope that the other Member States will soon.
We also sincerely hope that the Phillip Morris agreement can serve as a model for a similar agreement with other companies.
The Commission, on behalf of the European Community, and the ten Member States that concluded the Anti-Contraband and Anti-Counterfeit Agreement with Philip Morris International, will decide how the funds are to be shared out.
The agreement is intended to contribute to the fight against smuggling and fraud.
In the Bösch report on the fight against fraud, adopted only yesterday, Parliament asks the Commission and the Member States to use the payments accruing from the agreement to fund measures to prevent and combat cigarette smuggling, including anti-counterfeiting activities.
Funds received by the European Community under the agreement will be entered in the Community budget as non-earmarked funds, in accordance with the rules of the Financial Regulation applicable.
The Community legislator and the budgetary authority can, however, decide to adopt a new programme or to widen the scope of an existing programme.
The Commission considers that the Community is entitled to receive a fair share of the funds, reflecting the principles of the Community’s own resources system.
The Commission has been discussing the distribution of the funds with the ten Member States and is confident that a consensus will be reached soon.
In December 2004 Commissioner Kallas sent a letter to the ministers of finance and has convened two meetings on the subject.
The question of the share that should be allocated to the Community budget is dependent on the solution that is found to the division of funds between the Member States.
According to calculations by the Member States, in 2003 the EU budget suffered a loss of approximately 200&#160;million euro solely as a result of the illegal trade in cigarettes.
Losses to the Member States’ budgets are much greater.
The cooperation agreement concluded by the European Commission and various EU Member States with Philip Morris International is the first example of this cooperation.
The agreement stipulates that Philip Morris International will improve its cigarette distribution system and will provide more detailed information to the Member States’ law enforcement and tax authorities, which is necessary for effectively combating the illegal trade in cigarettes.
In addition to this, over a 12-year period Philip Morris International will pay 1.25 billion US dollars into the EU and Member States’ budgets.
The European Parliament considers that, ideally, all these resources, or at least the major part of them, should be channelled into combating and preventing the trade in illegal tobacco products.
The European Parliament, as one of the branches of the EU budgetary authority, considers that Parliament should participate in the decision-making on the distribution and use of these resources.
We consider that those Member States which have not yet subscribed to this agreement, especially the new Member States, ought to seriously weigh up the possibility of joining.
More precise information and extra financial resources will make it possible to combat more effectively the illegal trade in cigarettes and to improve collection of excise duties.
The Commissioner has already made reference to the fact that we have devoted our attention, in a report that this House adopted yesterday, to the subject of cigarette smuggling, which is one of the really big problems that the European Union currently has to contend with.
One reason for this is that, when the finance ministers find that the money has run out, the first brilliant idea they come up with is that of increasing the duty on tobacco.
I wish to thank our rapporteur, Mr Staes, for this initiative. &#160;&#160; Like my fellow Member, Mr Dombrovskis, I too have asked for an opportunity to speak briefly on behalf of the new Member States affected by this issue.
As everybody knows, Hungary is situated in the centre of Europe or, as we say, at the heart of Europe.
We think it is very important that it can be extended to the new Member States too, although the Commission has signed the agreement on behalf of only ten Member States.
This means that the advantages it brings in the fight against smuggling and fraud – namely professional, technical and financial support from the EU and OLAF – are now also accessible to us.
Once again I would like to thank the House for its support of our position.
The focus of our efforts at this point remains the conclusion of an agreement on how the funds are allocated, not only between the Commission and the Member States, but also among the Member States themselves.
The negotiations have been and continue to be difficult, but I am confident that we can resolve the issue in the short term.
That agreement should then serve to provide the allocation scale for any future similar agreements. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0246/2005).
It is also about to adopt the employment guidelines, which, in their general introduction, contain a reference to the European Youth Pact.
Additionally, guideline 18, which concerns the working life cycle, contains a reference to that Pact, in the context of youth employment and unemployment.
We know that, frequently, in many countries – but not in all – this combination of family and professional life is difficult, due in particular to a lack of crèches.
The Commission is required to reflect on all subjects of concern featuring in its regular report and in its recommendation, including, of course, freedom of expression and respect for minorities, and to report back to the Council regularly.
During the EU-Turkey Association Council of 26 April this year, the Presidency underlined, on behalf of the Union, the absolute necessity for Turkey to complete the suspended reforms without delay, and to ensure full and effective implementation of those reforms, which clearly imply respect for all rights, particularly freedom of expression. &#160;&#160; Thank you for your answer.
The judgment by the Supreme Court is a crime against human and democratic rights.
I am not sure whether your term ‘criminals’ is appropriate, but, in any event, the rights of minorities are an essential part of our approach to Turkey as well. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European Union's motto is ‘unity in diversity’, and you are well aware that, without respect for that linguistic and cultural diversity, this Europe could not be constructed.
You have responded positively by saying that the Council is concerned and that it is monitoring the issue of Turkey and the right of children to be educated in their mother tongue, but I would like to ask you whether you are going to do more than simply monitor this issue.
I believe that the Council of Ministers should do something with regard to Turkey at this point — draw its attention to the issue in some way — so that in relation to this issue we are not simply awaiting the next report from the Commission on compliance or otherwise with the Community acquis.
It is clear that, in the forums where the European Union holds discussions with Turkey, all these specific cases and other – let us say more general – cases will be discussed, and I believe we must continue to engage Turkey in this dialogue on issues of freedom of expression, the use of language and trades union freedom. &#160;&#160; Madam President, when this judgment was given, I put a question to the Commission about the matter, for it concerns citizens’ and human rights, and we have all been horrified at what has happened.
The Spanish Government’s regularisation programme for immigrants ended on 7 May.
The programme was backed across the board by trade unions, management and civil society.
These conclusions call on the Commission to put forward an initiative before the end of May of this year – which it did not do – to create a mutual information system between the authorities of the Member States responsible for immigration and asylum policies.
The Council considered that such a system would help to increase mutual trust and lead to a better coordinated approach to immigration and asylum policies in the Member States.
We are all aware, however, that we want to move towards a better coordinated policy, if not a common policy in this area, which is not yet in place.
At the same time, I understand that this decision was taken in a specific context and that the objective was precisely to integrate people already in Spain as much as possible and in the best way possible.
In this sense, I do not think that this decision was taken at the expense of other Member States.
The Council also highlighted the importance of full and complete cooperation from all the western Balkan countries with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
Under these circumstances, the working party met on 26&#160;April&#160;2005 with the Tribunal and the Croatian party in order to examine recent developments in cooperation between Croatia and the Tribunal.
The group decided that the Council’s conclusions of December and March were still valid and that the Council would review the matter at the appropriate time on the basis of significant future developments in close cooperation with the Tribunal. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to start by asking whether the Luxembourg Presidency is going to put Croatia on the agenda for next week’s summit.
The Council attaches great importance to protecting young people from alcohol, as they are so vulnerable.
As the honourable Member pointed out, on 5 June 2001 the Council adopted a recommendation asking the Member States to curb the production of alcoholic drinks aimed at children and adolescents, and advertising targeted at young people for this type of drink.
Also on 5&#160;June 2001, conclusions on a strategy to reduce the damage associated with alcohol were adopted by the Council.
However, as it proved difficult to clearly define alcopop-type products and to direct the measures able to be taken at their targets, it preferred to follow a more general policy in accordance with the aforementioned conclusions of 2001.
It was therefore confirmed that alcohol had an important place in the European Community’s health strategy and in the Community public health programme for 2003-2008, adopted by codecision with Parliament in September 2002.
This programme enabled projects to be put in place that are jointly funded by the Commission and the Member States and are designed to implement the 2001 recommendation and to prepare a Community prevention strategy on alcohol consumption.
A working party made up of experts from the Member States was also created for this purpose.
In June 2004, the Council adopted its conclusions entitled ‘Alcohol and young people’, in which it repeated the invitation issued to the Commission to report to it in 2005 on the implementation, by the Member States, of the measures proposed.
The conclusions also supported the work done by the Commission to develop a comprehensive strategy on alcohol consumption, stressing that, as part of that strategy, particular attention should be focused on the problem of alcohol consumption among young people.
Between now and the end of 2005, the Commission will in principle be in a position to present, along with the evaluation report requested in the 2001 recommendation, a communication on a comprehensive strategy on alcohol consumption.
I think that the health problems due to alcohol and to the high sugar content of the drinks concerned are particularly serious: I am thinking of the increase in diabetes among young people and the problem of obesity.
I therefore think that it is through examples such as this that Europe should show that it is not rigidly set in a framework that does not recognise real concerns.
I am sure that the information can be supplied in writing. &#160;&#160; Question No 8 has been withdrawn. &#160;&#160; Madam President, on a point of order on which I would appreciate your advice, I was told a moment ago by sessional services that this question has been withdrawn, but I understand that normally every MEP has access to the full list of questions.
Alternatively, can I ask a supplementary question to Mr Newton Dunn’s question?
So please go ahead and ask the President-in-Office of the Council something else about organised crime. &#160;&#160; That is very gracious of you, Madam President, but that would be cheating because my question is about working time and I would not wish to cheat. &#160;&#160; That is very fair.
The Council would like to point out that the eight Millennium Development Goals target children either directly or indirectly.
The Council does not believe that it will be possible to achieve these goals by 2015 without a coherent policy for children in the developing countries.
The Council has highlighted the need to focus specifically on children in implementing the European Union’s development policy, through a series of recent initiatives.
On 16 December 2004, the European Council confirmed the European Union’s firm commitment to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
During this session, the Council indicated its firm support for the European action plan to combat AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, through external action.
The Commission presented them at the end of April 2005.
Joint action between the European Union and the Member States, in cooperation with the main international organisations in the sector, including UNICEF, and with teachers and parents associations in the partner countries is planned.
It should also be pointed out that at Community level, in 2004 Parliament and the Council adopted Decision 803/2004 adopting the Daphne&#160;II programme to prevent and eradicate violence, particularly against children.
In conclusion, children are a fundamental dimension of European Union development policy and the Council intends to highlight this priority, both in the context of preparing for the summit on the attainment of the Millennium Goals, which will take place in September 2005 in New York, and in the process of formulating the Union’s future development policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, I thank your for that very detailed response.
I should like to ask you to take on board the views of those who know more about children in the developing world than perhaps you or I do, and who are concerned about the fact that we are perceived as a Union that concentrates more on large infrastructural projects than on children, and perhaps to think more deeply about the needs of children in terms of medical care and other assistance.
In any case, I can assure you that the Luxembourg Presidency, which is still in charge of this issue until the end of this month, will take care to ensure that this objective of the protection of children is one of the major objectives of our development strategy. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to return in particular to one of the topics mentioned: the issue of AIDS and HIV.
On 2 December 2004, this House voted in favour of a very precise resolution and called for the involvement of the Commission and the Council, with the particular aim of amending the existing TRIPS rules, which are one of the fundamental factors preventing adults and children living in the southern countries of the world from having access to medicines.
The Council has also expressed a desire to work on the matter of essential medication and has supported changes aimed at making some AIDS drugs accessible.
There is a problem with this at the WTO that has not been resolved.
We are among the largest donors to the fight against AIDS, as, without this money, we would not be in a position to better combat AIDS in the developing countries.
Europe has more or less fulfilled its commitments, unlike others. &#160;&#160; Question 9 by my colleague, Mrs McGuinness, is very close to my own, question 11, and again, we are not going to get to another question.
I find that very frustrating.
I think that you need to ask the Commission - as it is the Commission that needs to answer this question - what actual specific measures are in place, through the various European Union aid programmes, to combat the problems of AIDS or similar problems.
I think that you have every right to ask the Commission to provide you with an accurate report on specific measures for this purpose.
Five weeks later we debated the reports by Mr&#160;Karas on the two regulations here in the plenary of the European Parliament, which is another demonstration of the good spirit of cooperation in which this Parliament has dealt with this important issue.
As I explained when I appeared in committee, our proposal, in accordance with the mandate of the European Council –– which, in turn, had supported the report of the Ecofin Council in March –– was restricted to the modifications of the Regulations that were strictly necessary in order to make them compatible with the Council’s agreement.
Nevertheless, during the Council’s work, several Member States have argued that certain provisions should be included in the articles of the Regulation, such as, for example, the minimum annual fiscal adjustment of 0.5% of gross domestic product for countries in situations of excessive deficit or which need to move closer to a position of medium-term balance, or the explicit indication of other relevant factors.
These requests have prolonged the discussion on certain points on which there was already agreement in the Council by a few days.
Fortunately, that agreement has been maintained, and according to my information, the Council’s working group has reached a final agreement on the issue today.
For its part, Parliament, by means of the report by Mr&#160;Karas, has expressed its concern about certain parameters that effect the credibility of multilateral budgetary surveillance, such as, for example, the quality of national fiscal statistics, the surveillance of debt or the reliability of macroeconomic forecasts.
Many of them have been taken up, or can be taken up, in some of the different components of the raft of legal texts regulating the coordination of economic policies in the Economic and Monetary Union.
In any event, I hope that our cooperation over recent weeks will be maintained until the end of the legislative procedure, in order to provide us, as soon as possible, with a renewed Stability and Growth Pact that is suited to the true economic dynamic of the Member States, from both political and legal points of view.
The broad consensus relating to this reform is undoubtedly contributing to increasing the credibility of the Pact and demonstrating an unequivocal desire to promote healthier public finances as a condition necessary for sustained economic growth.
Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to stress that if one thing has been made clear by the recent votes against the draft European Constitution in France and the Netherlands, it is, I believe, the need to act and to achieve concrete results that bring tangible benefits in terms of the well-being of the citizens, beginning with employment and the strengthening of our social model.
I have a few words to say on the Stability and Growth Pact, after which I shall turn my attention to the two regulations.
Unfortunately, it sometimes had to be used in the past as an excuse for the purpose of making popular statements at home, rather than being used to safeguard, in a spirit of solidarity, the acceptance of responsibility in the European Union.
However, one thing is certain: the incentive structures for budgetary policy have changed with monetary union.
Now governments do not have such a clear idea of what the financial markets make of poor budgetary policy.
Unfortunately, the sinners can stand in judgment and, as they have done in the past, disregard what the Commission proposes in its capacity as guardian of the Treaties.
This has led to a loss of trust and credibility and has, at times, been an expression of action with no sense of solidarity.
It is also the basis of today's debate and the basis for the necessary reforms and adjustments being made.
The public have more confidence in the euro than in many of the European Union’s other political projects.
However, the subject of today's debate is not the Stability Pact per se; it is the Commission's two proposals for regulations based on the decision taken by the European Council of 22 and 23 March.
Different procedures apply to these two regulations.
Regulation No 1466/97 on the preventative aspects is governed by the cooperation procedure, while Regulation No 1467/97 on the excessive deficit procedure is governed by the consultation procedure with the Commission and the Council.
I should like to comment first on the regulation on the preventative aspects, in respect of which our committee made two central demands.
Secondly, we want the Commission not only to accept statistics, but also to conduct the dialogue in the Member State with the acting persons and institutions for the purpose of analysing the situation.
This cooperation, these comparisons, this interpretation and questions of cooperation between the European Central Bank and the Commission during the evaluation and comparison of statistics is important for us.
Making correlations of this kind between unemployment and the Stability Pact is typical of the cheap policy being pursued in the nation states, and so we should not be surprised if a majority of people believed in the referenda what the nation states convey in Brussels: that the euro is responsible for unemployment and it would be best to get rid of it.
The Commission has a huge responsibility not to give into these cheap arguments by the nation states and, if it comes down to it, to draw the necessary conclusions, take recourse to the Court of Justice where necessary and fight for the euro, a strong currency and the future, as did its predecessors.
I wish you luck with it. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the political situation in the European Union is too serious to get lost in legal wrangling over the Stability and Growth Pact.
No one can live on credit for ever, not even the Americans.
The nations of Europe are in revolt because the European Union seems to have no other policy to offer than budget austerity.
The EU needs to be jump started, we need to stimulate demand and encourage investment.
Joking apart, however, the truth is that Europe’s economic situation is much better seen from outside.
At the same time, Europe is moving forward in high value-added products.
While bonds issued by General Motors and Ford have been downgraded to junk bond level, the most recent statistics show that the European industry ranks first in the world for the number of cars produced: 17.2 million in Europe, 14.6 million of them in the Union of the Fifteen.
The United States, the home of mass production, made only 4.5 million cars in 2003, and that includes a large number of Japanese cars manufactured there.
My conclusion is clear.
The high savings rates in France, Germany and Italy denote an unjustified fear for the future.
Therefore, the proposals drawn up by the Commission are truly well-timed and necessary; however, as a representative of the Lithuanian state, which has always showed due diligence in implementing stringent fiscal policy and cost-saving measures at the expense of public services so as to execute all European Union requirements, I can only regret that we have learnt now that we possibly may not have had to implement those requirements.
In general, the review of the Stability and Growth Pact is not a bad thing, as the experience in my country has shown that excessively stringent regulations curb growth and produce certain deflationary pressures.
We are still a long way from the situation in the United States, a much more integrated federation than our own, where there is a significant federal budget, where there are rules for coordinating the budgets of the federal states, where budgetary policy and monetary policy are closely coordinated by Congress, where Congress is able to influence the options taken by the Chairman of the Federal Reserve and where the Federal Reserve’s objectives are wider than mere price stability.
Having said that, I believe that Commissioner Almunia’s proposals, from the previous term of office to their adoption by the Council in a more improved version, are an extremely positive step, and our Group will oppose the calls –&#160;from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in particular – for backtracking to what the former Commission President called a more stupid pact.
The irrational nature of the criteria – public deficit below 3% of GDP, public debt below 60%, or indeed the subsequent objectives of achieving zero deficit – did not, and still does not, have any economic justification.
Furthermore, the recession in countries with excessive deficit has been exacerbated by the possibility of fines, the pegging of the cohesion fund to the Stability and Growth Pact and constraints on public investment, and, by extension, on the proper implementation of the Structural Funds.
Current economic and social reality bears out our stance.
It is now true that the Council and the Commission have repeatedly said that a degree of sanity needs to be restored to the Stability and Growth Pact, that relevant factors in the analysis of budgetary situations must be taken into account, and that the objective of zero deficit is not the be-all-and-end-all.
The Council therefore reaffirms the aims of the Stability Pact and its benchmarks, and prevents any expenditure from being excluded from the deficit calculation.
What the Council adopted was simply the provision of more time, especially to countries guilty of non-compliance such as Germany and France.
Mr Karas acknowledges that the Stability Pact relies on Member States disciplining themselves.
He needs to go a step further in deducing that, for that very reason, the pact cannot work; it never could work.
The real danger here is that these conditions will culminate in a credible threat from Italy to reissue its own national currency, enabling it to devalue and thereby regain competitiveness without painful and prolonged deflation.
But a decision by Italy to re-issue the lira would undermine confidence in the ability of the euro to survive as a multinational currency.
Rather than trying to construct a new consensus, as Mr Barroso suggested last week, we should concentrate on strengthening the current European consensus on competitive markets, fiscal discipline and hard currency.
The revised Stability and Growth Pact gives more countries more time to correct excessive deficits and provides more leeway for countries with strong public finances.
The one-size-fits-all situation was always going to be a problem.
There must always be confidence in the fiscal framework that underpins the European Union.
The problem is not with the euro.
The problem in some countries is that they are avoiding the stark reality that the world economy is changing and will continue to change.
However, the failure to enforce these rules has left too many countries stagnating in an economic period that no longer exists.
Consequently, this has had broader repercussions in sending a focused message to the citizens of Europe about the positive work of the European Union itself.
This has never been more obvious than it is at present.
The package of Council directives will, however, remain an open document that will, for a long time to come, enable the national governments to use various means to escape this prudent budgetary and deficit framework, to employ more or less obvious forms of putting their countries into debt and to skilfully disguise the expenditure of one-off, unique resources, such as those from privatisation, for governments’ current economic management.
The path ahead of us is therefore still a long one, but it is one that we must travel. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Stability and Growth Pact crops up regularly in debates on the economy in this Chamber.
The report’s emphasis on a stronger role for the Commission in enforcing budgetary discipline is an absolutely necessary development.
Especially now, in their watered-down format, the Commission will have to enforce a clear and strict line with regard to the rules of the pact.
Furthermore, the absence of the European Parliament in the decision governing the Stability and Growth Pact is rightly highlighted as a serious structural flaw in European economic governance.
As the only directly democratically elected EU institution, this Parliament could play a vital role in putting an end to the political horseplay that goes on in the Council and provide the pact with the much needed credibility that many colleagues want.
What we need is economic growth and advances in competitivity, and these derive not from the rules of the pact but from meaningful economic reform, something which many European Member States have avoided for far too long.
So we have a new pact and I hope, with Mr Karas’ reports, a better way of making the rules work in a sensible and equal fashion.
But until countries achieve meaningful economic reform, we will soon find ourselves in yet another debate on the inflated importance of the pact.
I hope the Commissioner will do his utmost to prevent any further dilution of the commonly agreed commitments of the Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, basically, if I look at what happened in France on 29 May objectively, a lot of reasons are mentioned, including enlargement.
Today we are debating reform of the Stability and Growth Pact, and I would like to express my agreement with my fellow Member Mrs&#160;Kauppi on one point.
This reform will not bring us all the answers we need if, finally, we are to find the right solution in the euro zone, which ought to be the engine for growth in the Europe of the Twenty-Five as a whole.
Let us, however, accept that what you have done, Commissioner, in agreement with the President of the Euro Group, is a step in the right direction.
So far as statistical reform, predictability and agreement on the macroeconomic data that should underlie the preparation of the Member States’ budgets are concerned, it seems to me that there are things that should allow us to move in the right direction.
It came up repeatedly in our debates in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs: on its own, structural reform will not be enough to restore domestic confidence, stimulate internal demand and achieve the objectives of the Lisbon strategy.
We need to develop more means, to find other ways besides the Stability Pact, which is still not adequately geared to growth.
I wish you good luck for this first stage, Commissioner. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the workers in the countries of the European Union oppose the capitalist restructurings which result in a reduced standard of living and increased unemployment.
The reform of the Stability Pact by the European Council on 22 and 23 March was put forward as a relaxing of criteria.
It calls on the central banks to act as guardian of statistics and sets deadlines for adjusting to the Pact, in which recommendations are made about excessive deficits and debt, as in the case of Greece.
In Greece, the government has used deficits and financial prudence in order to unleash a series of anti-grass roots austerity measures and programmes, thereby guaranteeing even more poverty for the people.
I have always said that stretching the Stability Pact is harmful to economic growth and monetary stability, while at the same time denting public confidence in the euro and therefore in Europe itself.
The fact that the change to the Stability Pact concerning the 3% limit is not being made public does nothing to improve confidence in the euro.
Although Member States will be permitted to exceed the 3% limit, the Council and the Commission have not, to date, explained how this new arrangement will be translated into practice.
This is a pressing question, and I would like Commissioner Almunia to answer it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, we have often discussed the Stability Pact and I am going to try to summarise some of the things that have been said.
The Pact I liked was the Pact of 1996, which was signed by the CDU Minister Theo Waigel and defended by your predecessor, Commissioner Solbes.
But if it is not going well, it is not a result of the Stability Pact, but rather of our not having complied with that Pact.
The Stability Pact, budgetary authority, to put it in quasi-theological terms, is a virtue, a necessary condition, though insufficient, for growth.
Furthermore, as Mrs Kauppi has pointed out, we need those reforms that we have been unable to carry out.
This is an important objective and many Member States have managed to achieve it to a large degree.
We need flexible and better coordination of our financial policies, so that we can restore trust in the European economy, but, first and foremost, for the sake of our jobs. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should first like to offer the rapporteur, Othmar Karas, my warmest thanks.
He has managed to formulate a contentious issue in a relatively short space of time in such a way that Parliament can support it with a large majority.
At the first serious general test, the two large states, France and Germany, failed totally, assisted at the time by Luxembourg and Greece.
In saying this, I am also voicing criticism of my own government in Germany.
Given the powerful role of the Council and the inadequate role of Parliament in this matter, the Commission could only react defensively.
However, nobody will be able to say that this version of the Stability and Growth Pact is forward looking and will contribute towards the future stability of the euro. &#160;&#160; Commissioner Almunia, ladies and gentlemen, I wish first of all to say that I think matters have gone extremely well for Commissioner Almunia when it comes to the Stability and Growth Pact.
Having said that, Mr&#160;President, I cannot hide the fact that our debate today is taking place in the light of referenda in France and the Netherlands which, among many other things, reflect a grass-roots demand for a real agenda for Europe.
Moreover, it is because of these efforts that the national governments need to concur with our line of thinking.
That, Commissioner Almunia, is why I hope that this pact, which is now almost in place – and which I am certain will be implemented – is the first step on the way to a new and genuine agenda which, in reality, is the prior condition for creating popular understanding in connection with that modernisation of the treaties that we have been debating so vigorously over the last few days. &#160;&#160; If I may, I should like to make a few remarks, even though I represent the Czech Republic, which is not a member of the eurozone.
I am thinking in particular of France, which will only be able to keep its finances under control by restructuring government revenue and expenditure, or in other words by carrying out unpopular reforms.
They doubtless reminisce about the strong guilder, which would now help them solve the problem of negligible economic growth.
It is of key importance for the stability of the euro, and I think Mr&#160;Karas’ analysis of this point was relatively accurate, that the basic rules of the Stability and Growth Pact remain unchanged, or that they apply to all countries always and at every moment.
The March Council’s decision to reform the Stability and Growth Pact –&#160;a decision largely inspired by yourself, Mr Almunia&#160;– is a step in the right direction.
Personally, I do not believe that budget austerity in the Member States combined with budget inertia in the Union is the answer to the twin challenges of growth and employment.
I would therefore like to say that it is now time, at the stage we have now reached, to speak about increasing and diversifying the Union’s resources, even if that means amending the Treaties to allow the Union to take out the loans and raise the European tax that our current economic and political crisis demands. &#160;&#160; Mr President, allow me to put the following question to the House: would we be experiencing the current crisis in the European Union if economic growth and job creation were strong here, if the large European countries were offering us a different profile, if they were promoting the whole of the European Union and contributing to balancing the world economy?
Its reform, Mr Almunia, comes at a complicated time.
Mr Karas has done an excellent job trying to remedy a mistaken proposal on the basic content of the Stability Pact.
Mr Almunia has told us tonight that the Commission is satisfied with Parliament's position on improving the quality of statistics and the surveillance of debt.
This contradiction must stop and this is now the real challenge that the European institutions must meet head on.
In spite of these steps and the undoubted quality of your work, Commissioner, it remains to be seen whether these remedies have come in time and whether they will be sufficient.
We have a duty at least to reflect on this. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, basically everything has been said, but not by everyone and, more to the point, not by me.
Firstly, I should like to offer the rapporteur, Othmar Karas, my warmest thanks.
In 1997, Parliament had to give its opinion on the introduction of the euro and the Stability Pact associated with it at the time.
The shattered remains of the Schröder and Eichel policy in Germany and the Chirac policy in France have drawn the euro into this completely negative discussion.
The best solution would be if Mr Barroso, and Mr Juncker on behalf of ECOFIN, were to withdraw all changes to the Stability Pact in the light of recent developments. &#160;&#160; For Hungary, like all the new Member States, meeting the convergence criteria is a key requirement, as well as being in the country’s own interests.
Mr President, I would like once again to thank Mr Karas for his reports and all the Members who have spoken in the debate for their contributions.
Of all the contributions, I would like to refer to two of them, in particular those that have demonstrated the success of the euro, of the single currency, and I feel I should point out, at a time when certain statements appear to have called into question something that is obvious; that the euro has brought stability, solvency, historically low prices, that the euro has brought us historically low interest rates, that the euro is making us stronger.
This should be pointed out because, immediately afterwards, I must say that in order to maintain that strong single currency which strengthens us as Europeans in economic terms and in other terms requires a fiscal framework and a Stability and Growth Pact such as the one defined in the Treaty and provided for by the regulations that this Parliament is discussing today through its partial amendments.
There is a problem with confidence in some of the main European economies and one of the objectives of the reform of the Stability Pact is undoubtedly to increase the confidence in, and credibility of, a necessary framework of fiscal and budgetary discipline.
Furthermore, on the proposal of the Commission, Ecofin yesterday approved certain very important conclusions which indicate the improvements that are being made to the European statistical system and, in particular, to fiscal statistics.
In others, I have recognised ignorance or lack of knowledge or, in some cases, simply an interpretation that is not in line with reality: the reform of the Pact cannot be accused of repeating literally what the Treaty says, because what would jeopardise confidence would be to go against the Treaty.
To act in accordance with the Treaty, to repeat what the Treaty says with regard to the reference value for public deficit, to the reference value for public debt and to all the factors that must be taken into account Article 143 of the Treaty lays down the relevant factors to be taken into account when analysing a country's excessive deficit situation to comply fully with the Treaty in every respect, to re-read carefully the Treaty approved in order to implement the Economic and Monetary Union, is one of the elements that will do most to restore confidence in the euro zone and throughout the whole of the Economic and Monetary Union.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report by Dominique Vlasto, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on strengthening European competitiveness: the effects of industrial change on policy and the role of SMEs [2004/2154(INI)] (A6-0148/2005) &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report I am presenting to you this evening confirms the return of an ambition, the ambition of an industrial policy for an enlarged Europe.
Above all, our challenge must therefore be to be competitive through innovation and by investing in research, know-how and knowledge.
The Commission and Vice-President Verheugen are making a lot of proposals along these lines.
What we are looking for now is for these proposals to be made political reality, and it is in this light that this report and its contents should be considered.
The Commission is focusing on a sectoral approach: we are pleased about that because it is essential that part of industrial policy should take account of the distinctive nature of each sector in the way it is implemented.
An effective policy must also take account of the nature of enterprises, however, because only 1% of European enterprises are large groups, while there are millions of other small and medium-sized enterprises that make up Europe’s industrial fabric.
The Commission must make a real effort to take small enterprises into account.
We must also take account of the existing differences between the 25 countries of the European Union.
Finally, we believe that every policy must be based on a clear and effective method, and that is particularly true, Mr Verheugen, of your commitment to better lawmaking.
We are looking for a way of simplifying legislation that takes account of the cumulative effects of legislation on individual sectors.
As you can no doubt see, Mr Verheugen, our expectations are high.
For many instruments of industrial policy, they depend in part on the outcome of the negotiations on the financial perspectives; they also depend on our ability to make use of the instruments we already have, such as competition policy, education, the allocation of State aids or commercial policy.
That is the main thrust of the new growth and employment strategy which the Commission has tabled and which Parliament adopted by a large majority.
European industry can survive worldwide and generate growth and jobs only if 'made in Europe' indicates a top-of-the-range product.
That means access to risk capital, access to knowledge and skills and innovation and an improved business environment, basically in the form of red tape for small and medium-sized enterprises.
We shall say no to demands from the ranks of the Member States for regulations which are not necessary and I shall also say no if demands come from the European Parliament – and this is, unfortunately, often the case – for regulation which we do not need and the same Parliament then criticises the Commission because it over-regulates.
Industrial policy should be no exception, since industrial development based on knowledge is not limited to large enterprises.
They also carry a political charge, since the rejection of the Constitutional Treaty in France and the Netherlands is, amongst other things, a consequence of the fact that the people of Europe do not feel the direct effects of the workings and decisions of European institutions.
In the report, therefore, as the European Parliament we are giving particular support to institutional measures that will strengthen the innovative capacity of SME’s.
We are in favour of the European Union giving priority to mutually linked processes such as research, education and the elimination of administrative barriers, which present particular obstacles to small and medium-sized enterprises in exploiting the opportunities offered by the EU.
Commissioner, in formulating the report we collaborated very enthusiastically with Members from the new Member States.
Indeed we are aware that industrial policy may serve as an opportunity both for the geographically larger old Member States, which have the conditions for the development of industrial heavyweights, and for the new Member States, which can with their dynamic sectors of innovative SME’s represent the basis for high economic growth and for raising European competitiveness in the long term. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, Commissioner, several assessments suggest that uncertainty, particularly with regard to employment and social protection, has been a significant reason why many citizens have rejected the Constitutional Treaty in France and in the Netherlands.
That is the way to contribute to increasing confidence in the European project.
The Commission’s Communication proposes an integrated approach, which includes the simplification and harmonisation of legislation in order to consolidate the internal market, and supports R+D and the need to promote its transfer to companies.
Sectoral analyses will help to facilitate greater cooperation between industry, the Commission and the Member States, which could create new opportunities.
To that end, we must create a dialogue that includes the administration and the social and economic actors and that takes account of the available research and innovation instruments.
I would like to end by congratulating the Commission, because it has proposed the appropriate instruments for increasing European competitiveness and has done so within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy.
Society’s needs dictate everything that is necessary in such an economy, and the free market tells us what those needs are.
With all due respect, if it needs to be said that any aspect of the economy should be proactive, then I have to say that we have taken a very wrong turning indeed.
After all, this would imply that we already regard freedom as a non-essential feature of the economy, and yet a free economy is the foundation for success.
Paragraph&#160;5 says, and I quote, ‘social dialogue should help to identify the best-performing sectors’.
One hundred and thirty years ago, the then British Prime Minister said that the job of economists was to prevent the government from harming the economy.
Particular priority should be given to science and research programmes and training measures in the field of new technologies and new generations of products and services, as well as to productivity, potential savings and access to research for small and medium-sized enterprises. &#160;&#160; I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work on this well-balanced report.
The Lisbon Strategy clearly identifies the need to improve the competitiveness of European industry as a priority for the European Union.
European institutions must reduce and simplify legislation governing businesses operating in the industrial sector, especially small and medium-sized enterprises.
Secondly, emphasis must be given to supporting and encouraging small and medium-sized businesses in the industrial sector.
The SME sector has provided clear evidence of its flexibility, and the latter is the key prerequisite for attaining a necessary and sustainable degree of competitiveness, both in Europe and on the global market.
This approach of supporting the creation of a small number of large dominant companies would obviously tie up significant funding from the EU budget, and would probably violate the principles of healthy competition, without there being any guarantee of it having a positive impact on the competitiveness of such companies.
More structural funds must also be allocated to less-developed regions and the new Member States, in order to enable them to build adequate technical infrastructures with a view to improving the industrial base in these regions. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the Vlasto report contains mature and balanced deliberations that mark a new stage in the debate on Europe’s industrial policy, which is currently in crisis.
What the EU needs is a homogeneous market in products and services that is highly competitive in global terms and highly innovative.
Europe should follow the examples of Japan and late-1960s Europe by relocalising, or in other words by bringing modern production activities and capital back to the common European market.
Such relocalisation is urgently needed in order to protect intellectual property, to help Europe regain its lead in the field of know-how, to create jobs and to enhance the competitiveness of European capital.
They also include the establishment of industrial clusters around centres of innovation and the introduction of the principle that all government purchases should be ‘made in Europe’.
An EU directive would need to be drafted on this last point. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs&#160;Vlasto for this report.
It is my belief that the European economy is in urgent need of genuine competition and of developing a better understanding of economic issues amongst the citizens of Europe.
The first of these tasks was enshrined in the Lisbon strategy among the EU’s key objectives, one of the aims of which was to eliminate economic differences between the old and the new Member States.
Businesses from the new Member States, and in particular the SME sectors in these countries, which are both flexible and capable of adapting to changing conditions, offer significant potential for economic development in Europe.
Liberalisation of the market in services will serve as a further catalyst for economic development in Europe, and also represents a source of new jobs.
I will therefore vote in favour of it, and I would suggest that the SME sector be acknowledged as the driving force behind the economy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing takes on particular importance at a time like this, when a large part of Europe is in a situation of economic and social difficulties.
Choices need to be made in the context of general economic policy, completing the internal market and the reform policies on government administration, and the taxation system and infrastructures.
Mr Verheugen said that, as part of the better lawmaking project, the Commission will, in future, say ‘no’ more often, specifically to Parliament and the Member States.
You could make a start there, by going through those proposals that have not been implemented for fifteen years, by implementing competitiveness in consumer protection and environmental protection within the Commission itself.
These are starting points enough and, in my opinion, every European measure, as the President of the Commission once suggested, should pass three tests: the cost test, the competitiveness test and the subsidiarity test.
On this point, I agree with Mr Hudacký, who said that there should be no regulation in areas for which the nation states have jurisdiction.
The challenges are huge.
It is my belief that the core of Europe is too full for international competition and is therefore opting to cut itself off and be sidelined.
On the one hand, we are too expensive and, on the other hand, we are not productive enough in order to be able to afford the high costs.
The new Member States are bringing us this competition.
That is the important gift of enlargement: more competition and hence a proper industrial policy.
This is what we urgently need, not more new European programmes that get us nowhere and ultimately obscure the regulatory framework. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am a believer in three things: the European economy, European industry and the ability of European industry to be competitive.
Unfortunately, however, we often applaud the notion of competitivity, while supporting initiatives which erode that very competitivity.
Sometimes we talk about investments in technological innovation and we are dependent on private-public partnership.
Europe is not an ideal model for private-public partnership.
Finally, as well as encouraging further investment in innovation and research, there is a trend against patents.
We must realise that we have to choose our priorities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first to welcome this refreshing acknowledgment in competition policy and in the debate on industrial policy of the significance of small and medium-sized enterprises to jobs and the competitiveness of the European Union.
The internal market strengthens competitiveness.
The new type of nationalisation in mind must be driven out of our policy.
The apportioning of blame between state and Europe must be driven out in order to allow this competitiveness, this innovation, this research, this will to achieve more through efficiency.
I trust here that deeds will follow today's debate and the announcements made, because that is the only way to achieve new dynamism in the European Union. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We must in fact make every reasonable effort to reduce emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, in order to protect health and the environment.
These polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic substances.
However, these particular hydrocarbons are ingredients in extender oils used in the production of tyres and therefore cause health and environmental problems.
That is why the Commission has proposed introducing harmonised restrictions on the marketing and use of oils containing these PAKs, and on tyres containing these oils.
The Commission proposal will ensure that the internal market in tyres is maintained and that national measures which create trade barriers to the free movement of goods are avoided.
Parliament and the Council have tabled a workable compromise package, with amendments on the later introduction of measures and testing requirements and deleting unnecessary exemptions for certain sectors.
The Commission supports these amendments.
I would like to encourage Parliament to accept the proposal at first reading, together with the amendments forming part of this compromise package.
This will demonstrate that the European institutions are willing and able to address such problems without delay. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Madam Vice-President, today we are debating the 27th amendment to Directive 76/769 relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in extender oils and tyres.
I should like to start by congratulating the Commission on its initiative to extend Annex 1 to Directive 76/769 by the addition of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons to car tyres.
Taking as a starting point the protection of public health and the environment, as well as public safety and the smooth functioning of the internal market, and following consultations both with the Commission and the Council, as well as with the tyre and oil industry and non-governmental organisations, I tried to draft a balanced report, which was amended accordingly by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
In detail and as regards the transitional period, which is considered necessary in order to develop new types of tyres with extender oils which contain the minimum quantity of the substances which concern us, it is proposed that it be extended to 1 January 2010.
That is because the destruction of tyres remaining in stock is also harmful – perhaps even more harmful – to the environment and, of course, we are also helping industry to dispose of these stocks.
The European Federation of Tyre Manufacturers has assured us in writing that it can apply the criteria in the directive to all types of tyres, including tyres for racing cars, aeroplanes and special vehicles and vintage cars, without any risk to driver safety.
As regards the methods for detecting and defining polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, the Commission has proposed limiting the quantity of benzo[a]pyrene, the substance which will act as a marker for the entire group, to 1 mg per kilogramme or, taking all listed PAHs, to no more than 10 mg per kilogramme.
In the past, industry has used IP 346 method of the Institute of Petroleum for PAC-dimethyl sulfoxide extract, which must not exceed 3%.
As far as the oil content in car tyres is concerned, as ISO 21461 method has been developed in order to detect this type of oils in tyres, it is proposed that it be defined in the directive as an addendum to the Commission proposal.
Particularly in the current climate, after the French and the Dutch votes, people often see the Council and the Commission – the Commission in particular – as aloof from Parliament, the only democratically elected body that represents the electorate.
This report is a triumph for Parliament and I am delighted that we have come up with a compromise package.
He has consulted painstakingly and taken due note of the views expressed by all the main players.
In addition, I commend the productive efforts and efficient methodology employed in bringing about full and genuine cooperation between the shadow rapporteurs for all the main political groups.
That would be done by harmonising the rules on the marketing and use of extender oils and tyres containing these toxic substances, thus preserving and improving the conditions and functioning of the internal market, while making sure that a high degree of health and environmental protection is achieved.
That is a good example, demonstrating clearly that unity and common sense will always protect us against the ‘big brother’ approach sometimes propagated by a small number of US industrialists and politicians.
The fact that most groups but also the Commission, the Council and industry are nearly all of the same mind is the result of sound work put in by Mr Adamou.
I would also like to hear from the Commissioner what his opinion is on the matter and whether aircraft tyre manufacturers are now able to meet the requirements of the compromise package.
I was under the impression, from my contacts over the past six months, that that should be feasible, but I am very keen to hear your reaction. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for his work in support of the Commission’s policy and the excellent compromise he has proposed.
In international toxicology assessments several carcinogenic compounds have been identified among PAHs.
We must now define sustainable limit values which will reduce emissions of benzopyrene into the environment to a minimum, at the same time recognising the necessity of extender oils in the tyre industry. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are dangerous substances used in the manufacture of tyres for various vehicles.
We have before us a compromise which will probably be accepted tomorrow by a large majority.
Happy though I am when we avoid ideological debates on technical issues and adopt slim directives in a short space of time, there are a couple of minor but important aspects that we have overlooked.
The number of applications is extremely minor and the damage to the environment negligible.
The aviation sector operates at physical limits, which is why the safety aspect must not be compromised and must even come before environmental aspects.
Industry cannot guarantee that we shall have alternatives available by 2010 which will meet the specific and extremely demanding safety standards for aircraft tyres.
I am not in favour of more bureaucracy, but in such a safety sensitive sector as aviation, more careful attention should have been paid to the risks, especially as this is what we do with other regulations in the environmental sector where we often rush past the target.
I have received a letter from the European Cockpit Association, which represents 34&#160;000 pilots in Europe and expresses great concern about this.
I would like to know from Commissioner Verheugen whether he is aware of this problem.
We have received a formal statement from European tyre manufacturers to the effect that the technical requirements of this directive will also be met by the year 2010 for aircraft tyres.
I also think that, as far as the composition of tyres is concerned, tyre manufacturers are rather more qualified than pilots. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the Oral Question to the Commission on the Regulation on the Community Patent and related legislation, by Giuseppe Gargani, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs (B6-0242/2005) &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr Gargani, for whom I am deputising, sends his apologies.
A few months ago, we sat together under the coordinators of the Committee on Legal Affairs and decided that, as we are having problems – and I use the word advisedly – with a whole series of proposals for legislation in the field of intellectual property rights, it might perhaps make perfect sense if Parliament as a whole were to address this question once more and take this opportunity to discuss this once again with the Commission and – at a later date perhaps – with the Council.
I recall our resolution on the Lisbon process.
We here always took the view – almost right across the political divide – that the European patent had a particular worth and is of crucial importance, including within the framework of the Lisbon process, if we are to be able to guarantee the competitiveness of the European economy with the economies of other regions of the world.
Against this background, I am very concerned as to whether we can and will ultimately get a patent that really can meet the specifications that we have set, including within the framework of the Lisbon process.
The second issue which concerns us and which played a considerable role in the report at the time by a 'green' colleague, Mrs Mercedes Echerer from Austria, is the question of collecting societies.
We in the Committee on Legal Affairs addressed collecting societies on various occasions in the previous legislative period, both within the framework of directives in which they played a role, and in the Echerer own initiative report.
We came more or less unanimously to the conclusion that it is necessary, when acknowledging the role of collecting societies, both in the decision-making processes of these companies and in fee structures, to achieve an adequate degree of transparency both for the benefit of users and in the interests of the holders of the intellectual property rights.
We know that the Commission is considering this and has already carried out or is already carrying out a follow-up assessment with a view – and this was also announced in the Commission's legislative programme – to submitting a specific proposal for legislation during the course of this year.
We know full well that the 'market' at issue here is not of the same order of size as in other cases, but it is nonetheless of importance to the development of the European single market that we clarify this question, ensure there is reasonable transparency in this sector and perhaps also take initiatives in order to facilitate the cross-border use of copyrights.
The Commission has already invested a lot of time and effort in work on this file.
While I am prepared to make one more attempt to reach agreement on the Community patent in the future, I will only do so when I believe the conditions to be favourable.
However, alongside the Commission’s work on this issue, we also need all supporters of the Community patent to speak out strongly in favour of this initiative.
The overall aim of such an initiative will be to ensure the more transparent and efficient cross-border management of collective rights in Europe.
A more transparent management of copyright across the European Union should help stimulate more use being made of copyright content which fosters the development of new attractive services and the technology that is used to provide such services.
There is no blockage in the legislative process in this area.
As far as enhanced cooperation is concerned, any support from the Commission for such an initiative in the field of industrial and intellectual property would depend on its impact on the economy and society and its added value compared to the existing situation.
I therefore believe that the issue must be clarified and that, as Mr Lehne has said, the Commission could undoubtedly help to find a formula to get us out of this .
With regard to the second aspect, relating to collective management companies, the fear may be that a Commission proposal, for example, taking the radical approach of the Bolkestein Directive of total liberalisation, could end up removing any possibility of effective protection of intellectual property rights.
I would simply like, therefore, to call on the Commission, when drawing up this proposal, not to make the same mistake as the Bolkestein proposal, which, as we know, has today even been one of the elements used to argue against the approval of the European Constitution in the referenda, but rather to seek a system that links the need for harmonisation in this field with the protection of a basic service, the protection of intellectual property and of artistic and literary creation. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, without doubt, the debate on the Community patent is of no small significance in terms of the European economy.
In any case, there is one effect which must not be underestimated: as long as patents continue to be as expensive as they are now, much of their protective function is lost; patents can even block rather than foster innovation.
However, when we see, from the other side, that the need for diversity and the fostering of diversity are entrenched both in decision-making processes and in the minds of Europeans, then it will be hard for us to simply leap this hurdle.
I therefore think that we here in Parliament must pay special attention first and foremost to the problem of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are inseparable from the competitiveness that we urgently need to support, and on which subject, Commissioner, I have heard little from you.
At present the situation is untenable.
People are saying that we cannot make criminals out of a whole generation who simply download whatever they can from the Internet with no sense of wrongdoing.
Besides, it is our duty to make a strict distinction between this and software patenting, because the blurred relationship between the European Patent Convention and national case law has created a problematic situation, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, we must, of course attach great importance to the issue of the Community patent and related legislation, so as to ensure that we do not undermine innovation and that small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are not adversely affected.
We feel it is wrong to create a Community patent at any cost, as this indeed undermines the interests of small and medium-sized countries, with regard to both the language arrangements and the role of the national institutions and national patent agencies.
We therefore feel that the best way of defending micro-enterprises and SMEs in all Member States is to uphold the principle of non-discrimination between countries and companies and, especially, in terms of the language arrangements. &#160;&#160; That concludes this item.
