Situation in Gaza (debate) As the next item we have the statements on the situation in Gaza by the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy and by the Commission.
EU High Representative for CFSP. - (ES) Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor in this important debate which we are about to begin.
I believe that what we would have to do would be to operate in accordance with the debate in the European Council on Monday and with the Council Resolutions, as I believe that Monday's resolutions are very good and have provided a sense of direction which has been welcomed by all parties: Egypt, the Palestinians and Israel.
I think the situation in the Gaza and the large amount of violence that we have seen in January is one of those very difficult situations, among many other things - including the rocket and mortar attacks that have injured the Israeli civilian population - that could make the whole process derail.
The Israeli military reaction has caused many deaths and injuries amongst the Gaza Palestinians.
The international community implored Hamas to renounce violence.
Why, when we call to an end to the collective punishment of people in Gaza, the Israelis ignore us and we do nothing.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, taking a whole people hostage has been a failure.
The policy of isolating Hamas and thereby isolating Gaza has failed.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, the heroes of Gaza have once again proven that no fortified wall can imprison the free spirit of humanity and no form of violence can subdue life.
If the true words of the Council statement of 28 January are to have any real import, the European Union must agree to put more pressure on the Israeli authorities than the usual tortuous circumlocutions, directly and in the Quartet, to accept the principle of the transit points being opened up permanently, under the responsibility of the Palestinian authority and with the support of the European Union and the Arab League.
Third, arising from that, instead of two factors in the equation (one very clear - Israel - the other, the Palestinians, a bit blurred), now we have three clearly defined factors - Gaza included - in an equation with a multiplication sign between its factors, meaning that if any one is zero, the product is zero. (ES) Mr President, just a few very specific questions: how can we go back to the EU BAM to the Rafah crossing point, given the insecurity of the previous situation?
Next, how can we move towards peace without dealing with the situation in Gaza?
We must tell the Israeli government in no uncertain terms that, if it wants to help Salam Fayyad and Mahmoud Abbas, it should not only stop the blockade of Gaza, but it should stop killing young boys as it did yesterday in Bethlehem and it should stop shutting Palestinians in the ghetto in the West Bank.
On the contrary, I think that the situation in Gaza and the blockade have to be seen in the context of the overall conflict between Israel and Palestine.
The Arab League, the European Union and even Israel must facilitate contact between Fatah and Hamas in order to achieve unity among the Palestinian people, as was the case when the government of national unity was in power.
I previously referred, albeit very briefly in connection with Annapolis, to one aspect of this strategy, namely the bilateral negotiating process between President Abbas and Prime Minister Olmert.
On this point, I should like to say the following to those that might not have read my statement: on 21 January, I delivered a very clear position statement on the situation in Gaza, because I, too, realised that things had simply gone too far.
For good reasons, the new mechanism has also been created in partnership with the Palestinian Authority.
I could say the same and say it with the same emotion and with the same sentiment, because our sentiments are shared.
They took a decision, a decision that was supported by the General Affairs and External Relations Council on Monday, a decision that we are going to try to implement in the coming hours after a meeting taking place this morning between the Palestinian Authority and Egypt - which is continuing as we are speaking now and which will continue during the night and probably tomorrow or the day after tomorrow - when they have reached the point where we can really be of effect.
I would not say more deeply but at least at the same depth as you, all our friends here, because we are on the same side, we have been engaged in this battle for a long time together.
Since 1967 we have not produced a result, collectively, as an international community.
Written statements (Article 142) in writing. - (IT) Thank you, Mr President.
