author. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be able to introduce this subject on behalf of the Committee on International Trade.
The committee hopes that this style of cooperation will continue for international negotiations on partnership and cooperation agreements in which, as in the case of China, trade is a significant factor.
This uncertainty has been increasing as the 2005 Memorandum of Understanding is now due to expire.
Our economies are complementary: China has strong competitive advantages in many areas; we have an enduring competitive advantage in high value-added services and goods, especially ones that require strong intellectual property right (IPR) protection.
I accept that part of this deficit may be the natural result of market forces, but we also know that our export potential is being hampered by barriers in the Chinese market and that an important part of the current trade balance is consequently artificial.
The fundamental case for a positive trade relationship with China remains correct, but we are at something of a crossroads in our trade relations with China.
So let me repeat: openness to China is in Europe's interests, but it is sustainable only if we can show that EU products and services are just as welcome in China as Chinese goods are in Europe.
I was able to agree with Bo Xilai to set up a high-level group that will explore ways to address this issue.
I agreed with Minister Bo Xilai on 12 specific points that address EU companies' concerns regarding their access to the Chinese market.
China's non-accession to the WTO Government Procurement Agreement leaves important Chinese markets closed, and China needs to honour its commitment to open negotiations on accession to this agreement in 2008.
Cooperation and dialogue on IPR issues are not an end in themselves.
This means that we have to ensure that we are acting on a level playing field, rejecting anti-competitive trading practices and standing ready to apply our trade defence instruments against dumping and illegal subsidies, as well as stepping up the fight against counterfeiting.
This issue is important in the context of the EU's application of its trade defence instruments when faced with allegations of unfair dumping in Europe by Chinese exports.
We will review the situation again in 12 months and continue technical talks in the meanwhile.
The Commission preferred to continue bilateral dialogue with China on intellectual property issues rather than coordinated action between the ΕU and the USA, which activated the WTO dispute settlement mechanism against China.
However, we are awaiting concrete results from this specific dialogue.
In the textile and clothing sector, all means should be used to safeguard the smooth development of European flows when the Shanghai Agreement expires in 2008.
What we need to fight against are China's competitive advantages that derive from prohibitive import barriers, from unfair competition and from economic, ecological and social dumping practices.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PT) Mr President, based on the fundamental premise that relations between the European Union and China are of vital strategic importance in political terms, we have to ensure that our trade relations are governed by two principles, which have been very well expressed by the Commissioner: on the one hand we must invest in cooperation and, on the other, we must always keep up a very demanding attitude in our relations with China.
In that context, we must establish a permanent debate on our cooperation efforts with this emerging great power, which is absolutely essential for keeping the international system in balance.
Indeed, we cannot close ourselves off from a growing market that is opening up new opportunities for us, which, of course, we have to seize.
So I would like to thank Commissioner Mandelson for refusing to adopt a common WTO strategy for dealing with China on the subject of pirate goods.
The Chinese Government must do its part and show political will and take effective action to combat a phenomenon that concerns a large number of businesses, and especially consumers, worldwide.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Commissioner, the status of market economy is not yet within China's reach.
It is through the Commission's fault that no agreements have as yet been concluded with important countries such as China and India.
This means that, as from 12 July, used paper and other recyclable materials will become the most dangerous form of waste.
I would urge Commissioner Mandelson to promise this House a transitional provision that runs until 1 January 2008.
As a previous speaker said, no one expects China to respect all human rights overnight, but we do need to see significant progress.
We therefore believe that opening up negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement with China is a good initiative that must enable the European Union to strengthen its bilateral trade policy on the basis of the principle of reciprocity, which you yourself have mentioned.
In view of this disparity, therefore, I would also like to ask you what measures can be taken to prevent situations of tension such as those which took place in 2005. (PL) - Mr President, once again this forum is discussing trade relations with China, which has over the past decade emerged as a world economic and political power.
However, we should not forget to look after the interests of the members of the Community above all, and to assess the opportunities but also the threats that cooperation with this Asian tiger poses through the prism of these interests. (SV) I am convinced that fear of China's economic growth really is exaggerated.
I am convinced that the strong and sustained growth and the boom being experienced in the world right now is due in large part to the fact that China, India and other large countries in the world are in the process of being incorporated into the world economy.
I believe that we have many important problems to get to grips with, for example infringements of copyright and issues concerning intellectual property rights, as well as Chinese markets closed to everything from financial services to car parts.
The explosion of China, which has been direct and immense in the case of production, will be even more so in the case of consumption and also in distribution at world level, becoming one of the main determining factors of both elements.
We must do it in a regulated manner and, furthermore, we must demand clear reciprocity, the removal of barriers to access for European products, adequate protection of intellectual property rights and patents, full respect for the standards required in social terms - which I believe to be crucial - and equal respect for environmental and safety criteria for goods produced in China.
There is very great asymmetry not only in trade, but also in the fact that the Chinese are much more familiar with the European Union than we in the European Union are with China.
The fact is that China is falling below our expectations.
However, I will be putting in place means to monitor and to keep under surveillance any sudden and large-scale changes in imports of Chinese textiles that threaten to disrupt our market in Europe, and I will consider what, if any, action I can take in the light of disturbances to our market.
I ask you to conclude agreements with countries such as China and India and pause until 1 January 2008, because otherwise there is a standstill in exports in harbours like Rotterdam.
On the one hand, we need to step up coordination between the Member States in inspections of imported products and, on the other hand, we need to persuade the Chinese Government to apply wide-scale, very strict on-the-ground, checks in order to protect European industry from unfair competition resulting partly from counterfeiting and piracy.
