Children of immigrants (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on the children of immigrants, by Jan Andersson, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs - B6-0014/2009).
On the other hand, the situation of migrants' children who are left behind on their own in the country of origin when parents emigrate in search of a job in another country is an issue which has caused concern in some Member States during the last two years.
Commissioner Špidla, I would like to thank you sincerely for the contribution you have made in broadcasting the video message as part of the European conference which I organised in Bucharest last November on this issue of children left alone at home.
In Member States with high levels of emigration, this phenomenon is by no means unusual.
A further aspect which must be addressed is the fact that this phenomenon is often perceived as a negative consequence of worker mobility.
The Commission, in cooperation with the EURES network, is focusing on how best to help those affected with the specific problem of children left at home by parents who are mobile workers and providing job-seekers and their families with information on living and employment conditions in EU countries.
So we expect concrete action from the Commission in such an important field. (RO) According to the study carried out by UNICEF and the 'Social Alternatives' association, in Romania, roughly 350 000 children have one parent working abroad, while 126 000 have both parents abroad.
I feel that these measures would be conducive to the harmonious development and growth of these children as they, too, represent the future of Europe. (RO) I would like to highlight one thing.
However, one aspect was left out: the situation of thousands of European children left behind by parents who go to work in another European country, generally called the 'migration orphans', of which there are almost 350 000 in my country.
I have already tabled a written question to the Commission on this topic, but would like to take this opportunity to put that question again.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 12 March 2009.
