I submitted a statement in writing at that time on the issue of Mordechai Vanunu, who was released from jail in Israel yesterday after 18 years' imprisonment.
We understand that the lawyers representing the defendants have announced their intention to refer the case to the Court of Cassation and hope that it will be dealt with in accordance with all the relevant principles of equal justice. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for its statement.
Probably uniquely in this House, I actually knew Leyla Zana before she was tried and convicted.
The way in which the trial was conducted was unacceptable and it was thanks to the intervention of the Council of Europe that a retrial was held.
This government, too, when decisions are taken in December, is sure to have the charge laid at its door that too little has been done by way of implementation and that too little effort is being made to bring Turkey’s administration and its justice system up to modern European standards. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for its extremely strong and clear statement on the unfortunate Zana case.
During the recent Joint Parliamentary Committee meeting in Turkey, we brought up the issue of the Leyla Zana trial, as we always do.
The Turkish Government fully appreciates the political importance of the Zana case for the European Parliament.
No country can seriously contemplate European membership with nearly six thousand prisoners of conscience, no matter how controversial those people prove to be. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, yesterday morning I was in Ankara at the hearing during which the 15-year sentence of Leyla Zana and three other ex-DEP MPs was confirmed.
Among the many serious aspects of this trial that have already been mentioned by fellow Members and the Commission representative, whom I thank, what matters is the very fact that the 1994 sentence has been confirmed.
The Strasbourg Court condemned the 1994 trial because it was illegal in many respects and called for a new trial to take place.
The behaviour of the State Security Court in Ankara not only affronted the European Union but also the Strasbourg Court.
I attended all of the trial hearings: the right to defence was breached in a most blatant manner; more specifically – and to keep it short – the defence was denied any possibility of objectively replying to claims made by the prosecution witnesses.
I will not add any more general comments since I agree with what has been said by those Members who spoke before me.
Those who have been involved in this matter over the past months and years have been able to see with their own eyes that this trial was a farce.
This was a copy of a bad trial, and the result of a bad trial is a bad verdict.
These judges, yesterday's judges, wanted to show who is boss.
Their answer is clear: we are the bosses, not the European Parliament or the European Commission in Brussels, and not the Government in Ankara either: we are the ones who decide what will happen in this case.
That rule must remain the same: reforms on paper must be put into practice.
The second example, highly symbolic of course in this context, is the use of the Kurdish language, which we should remember was where this whole issue started.
So it is very important that by the end of the year the Kurdish language can actually be used in the education system and in the media.
It is in fact very rare for someone to have spent so long in prison and to have held the Sakharov prize for almost as long.
We must make more of a nuisance of ourselves, exert more pressure so that this pressure can in turn be exerted on the opposing forces in Turkey.
I believe that we must persuade our own governments of this.
I would also add that in my opinion it is essential to build up contacts between European judges and public prosecutors and their Turkish counterparts in order to change attitudes, as the wrong attitude can take us down the wrong track time after time, falling into the trap of nationalistic hatred against minorities caused by the fear that they could undermine the integrity of the State.
The Supreme Court, at the request of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights, has restarted the trial.
We could not be more disappointed and, faced with such confusion, there is nothing more to say.
I went to see Leyla Zana in 1995 at her prison in Ankara, with the other Kurdish prisoners, prisoners of conscience, we must remember.
I was very confused and said to myself that maybe I should give Turkey a chance, since I was in favour of its accession in the future.
We therefore welcome the proposed abolition of the state security courts, and the Commission will attach due importance to this issue in our report on Turkey in October. &#160;&#160; To end this debate, I have received 5 motions for resolutions, in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure(2).
The debate is closed.
That being the case, it is clear that, despite this progress, Europe will not reach the intermediary quantitative objective: to reach an employment rate of 67% by 2005.
This report stressed that there was an urgent need for practical action, by putting in place some decisive measures on a fiscal, social, environmental, research and innovation level in order particularly, in all areas, to create jobs, taking into account, of course, globalisation and the problems linked to the ageing of the population.
It is in this spirit (this is the subject of Amendment 7 of the report) that Europe must support networks and partnerships, for example platforms of excellence that link small businesses, research centres, universities and private businesses.
This is the subject of Amendment 5.
This is, in fact, the conclusion of the Wim Kok report.
Improved governance, meaning the need to mobilise all of the players – national parliaments, regional and local players, social partners, trade unions and associations, but also businesses – and also to facilitate, in this spirit, improved access to the structural funds.
Community financing policy must be established in this spirit of economic dynamism.
This is very specifically what I would like to say.
Furthermore, Mr President, I am sorry that, following the votes that took place yesterday, which were on such important issues as the environmental life cycle, tyres, marmalades and sweetened chestnut purée – all votes of great consequence – we are obliged to discuss employment policy now, and, moreover, without the Council.
Indeed, you are producing a report on the guidelines, a legislative report, but you cannot amend it because the guidelines have been fixed for the past three years, as if the environmental context, the international, sociological, financial and fiscal context of this matter, were not changing. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, this House has always demanded that economic, employment, social and finance policies should be coordinated and considered as a whole, in order to provide the European Union with a coherent strategy for growth, employment and society.
That must surely give us cause for concern, and so we want to consider and reformulate these broad economic policy guidelines in such a way as to stimulate economic growth and enable it to become more sustainable in economic, social and environmental terms.
I will now reiterate Parliament’s criticism to the effect that many Member States are not keeping to their commitment on the Lisbon strategy of combining and bundling all measures aimed at creating truly sustainable growth and also enhancing competitiveness.
This is why I believe that the policy guidelines must be targeted even more than before at stimulating economic growth by way of investment and job creation, thus bringing about a rise in productivity.
Although the environmental technologies action plan must be implemented, we must not forget the need to invest in social infrastructure, for there will be no increase in productivity if we do not make work and family more compatible and thereby increase the number of women in work.
This I do regard as a very important measure; it cannot be too much stressed that this is an area in which many Member States must make much more of an effort.
The broad economic policy guidelines must continue to focus on social and regional cohesion and on convergence in real terms, but there must be greater clarity as to which policy mix will actually prove successful, as we need strong synergy effects between, on the one hand, the necessary structural reforms and, on the other, investment and macro-economic policies aimed at stability and growth.
This, of course, is where intelligent use of a more flexible Stability and Growth Pact is called for.
It is my belief that such partnerships for change must concern themselves with economic, social and environmental issues across the board if the Lisbon strategy is to be improved and moulded into a more political form.
Any reform of the structural funds must also take into account the importance of forging a link between the economic policy guidelines and the structural funds and the use made of them.
This debate is being held in response to the update of the broad economic policy guidelines and the Commission's 2004 report on the employment strategy.
Streamlining has resulted not only in the update of the economic policy and employment policy coordination circuits of the European Union, but also in stronger complementarity and cohesion between these two basic procedures.
The Commission considers that the overall political strategy laid down in these guidelines continues to apply.
Emphasis was placed in the 2004 update on incorporating the 10 new countries within the framework of the coordination of our policies.
I should like to comment in greater detail on these two aspects, taking account also of certain comments made in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
The European Commission has confirmed the Community's medium-term strategic economic policy laid down in the broad economic policy guidelines for 2003-2005.
This package of policies focuses on the contribution which economic policies can make towards achieving the Lisbon objectives.
First, economic developments are in keeping with the expectations which applied when the Council issued the present broad economic policy guidelines last year.
As stated in our new economic forecasts, the economies of the European Union are in the process of recovery, which is expected to consolidate.
Secondly, in order to strengthen both potential growth and the endurance of the economy, decisive application of the objectives we have set for structural reforms is required.
It did, however, also become clear that more progress with the reforms is needed in order not to jeopardise the achievement of the Lisbon objectives.
The 2004 update of the broad economic policy guidelines focuses on integrating the new Member States within the framework of the coordination of our economic policies.
Our medium-term economic strategy is in a position to address the challenges of the acceding countries.
The synergy created from the interaction of macro-economic policies and the necessary structural reforms will result in gradual convergence between these countries.
This – gradual convergence – is the most important challenge which the acceding countries face.
It is very positive that the issues addressed in the report all relate to the four basic policy sectors, as set out by the European Employment Task Force and in the 2004 joint report on employment, which were confirmed by the spring European Council, namely: improving the adaptability of workers and businesses, attracting more people to the work place, improving the quality of employment and investing in human resources.
I consequently consider that, materially, we are on the same wavelength, we have the same concerns and the same priorities for action in coming years.
It is also important that you emphasised the need for stricter assessment of the performance of the Member States, in order to give impetus to the application of the strategy on employment.
The Commission proposes maintaining the guidelines as adopted by decision of the Council last July.
As part of our joint efforts to streamline the economic policy and employment policy circuits of the European Union, the guidelines for employment policies, like the broad economic policy guidelines, follow a three-year cycle.
The reform of the policy on employment carried out last year aimed to address better the basic challenges of the job market in the European Union, in order to respond to the Lisbon objectives for 2010.
This reform emphasised the medium-term approach and the definition of a framework policy which would take account of the diversity which prevails in the enlarged European Union.
Similarly, the spring European Council confirmed the need identified in the joint report on employment for the procedure on employment to focus the following year on evaluating progress.
The main issue in the next joint report on employment must therefore be the Member States' response to the special recommendations for each country.
This means that these recommendations must be at the epicentre of the national action plans submitted by the Member States, both the current fifteen and the new Member States, in the autumn of 2004.
Finally, may I assure you that the European Commission expresses its satisfaction with the constructive approach by the European Parliament, which has focused its amendments on the recitals.
The European Commission, during further negotiations with the Council, will also take account of and will support those amendments which improve certain recitals.
For example, Amendment 1 concentrates on research and development.
In our Amendment 2 we focus on a couple of issues highlighted by the Employment Task Force – the Kok report – namely adaptability and lifelong learning.
However, we must acknowledge that in all the national plans, to a greater or lesser extent, there are failures in achieving the targets laid down in those respects.
Amendment 3 concerns taking possession of the delivery of guidelines by national parliaments, social partners, NGOs, and local and regional authorities.
I also welcome Amendment 7 to encourage companies to better anticipate economic, technical and industrial change.
She has also done some sterling work for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
When it comes to the EU of the Fifteen, it emerges that the countries concerned have greater economic strength, with growth of 2% this year and 2.4% next year.
Things are significantly better in the new Member States, with growth of 3.5% this year and, on average, 4% next year.
We know that the changes in the new Member States have been very far-reaching and often painful.
Corporation tax in the new Member States is lower than in our own countries, but healthy competition is to be welcomed.
Where the Stability and Growth Pact is concerned, we think that this has operated well.
The Liberal recipe for enabling the EU Member States to obtain growth and more jobs involves sound public finances, increased competition, completion of the internal market in all its aspects and structural reforms for the future.
Mr&#160;President, we face huge challenges in Europe, but the opportunities in the new Europe are so much greater.
We have a low level of investment and a lack of growth and dynamism, meaning in actual fact that we have a surplus of capital.
This capital then has to leave Europe in order to find more profitable investment opportunities.
We also have a tragic surplus of labour in the form of people who are unemployed.
Economic policy includes a Lisbon agenda whose philosophy we could certainly share, but whose implementation is, in fact, deeply unbalanced, since it concentrates on the liberalisation of the sectors and neglects the social and environmental objectives included in the agenda.
The policy that has been followed in recent years, particularly by France and Germany, has consisted of making an effort in relation to budgetary policy, in an attempt to reduce deficits and debt at the same time as decreasing public revenue, in the hope that this can all be resolved by an increase in growth.
We have very weak growth, increasing unemployment and an increase in disparity in income between different social groups, with no reduction in exclusion and poverty, in one of the richest regions of the world.
These have been discussed within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs but without success, or at least without achieving a majority.
I formulate the problem in these terms, which is how it must be formulated.
Maybe the growth initiative is moving in the right direction, but it is inadequate in terms of both quantity and quality.
Finally, I would like to end on the fiscal issue.
A passive attitude will do nothing to encourage growth.
Action will be hard and demand political sacrifices, but waiting longer would be irresponsible. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to confine my remarks to the Hermange report, and start by saying this is not the speech that I had intended to make.
I had hoped to be in a position to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report.
What is left is still very useful, very positive, but it is a pale shadow of the excellent and very thorough work that she had put in.
Unfortunately her amendments were voted out by the PSE Group who were there in strength on Monday.
However, I do say to our colleagues, particularly our absent colleagues from this side of the House, that if we care about employment, as we do; if we care about unemployment, as we do; if we care about the social injustice that flows from unemployment, as we do; then we must be prepared to make this area a priority.
Although there is work simultaneously in other Committees, we have to make certain that we can stand up to be counted, so that our view may prevail in these meetings and so that we can drive change.
However, if we are to deliver the Lisbon Agenda, it is not good enough simply to say that the guidelines will not change before 2006.
The guidelines need to be strengthened and refocused and there is a lot of work both to do and to undo in this House in order to give more impetus to the Lisbon process.
It would be a case of, for example, requiring the Member States to have a balanced budget when growth exceeds, let us say, 3%, even if it allows them greater infrastructural spending flexibility at the time of an economic turnaround.
In an interview for the newspaper , he recommends that the Pact should be more flexible when the economic climate is poor and stricter when the economic climate is good.
This paper broadly demonstrates that the Stability and Growth Pact has slowed, and continues to slow, growth in Europe.
This certainly explains the fact that the small countries seem more virtuous in relation to stability than the large countries, whether the large countries are governed by the left or the right.
Stability and Growth Pact reform is, therefore, not a question of politicking, but rather a vital necessity for a Europe that is losing the fight for growth and employment.
With her, we will lose a woman who was committed to the euro, to a social Europe and to a Europe of growth and employment.
In order to overcome the various obstacles, I too would like, moreover, now to put forward some political objectives.
The first is that we must first of all seize the opportunity that enlargement offers.
Just like us, and even more so, it is in their interest that the enlarged Europe be a much more dynamic region of the world.
This is the structural reform that Europe needs and that we will have to devise.
The Lisbon strategy chose good objectives and a good driving force, but its guidelines are still very ambiguous and it has not found the tools to work with.
I think that with a good European budget and fiscal harmonisation, we would indeed be in a better position to resolve the problems relating to the reduction of national public deficits.
I would also like to point out a major shortcoming in the Treaty.
It needs to be said.
We should revise the Lisbon agreements in the light of various factors, including the evolution of the economy.
Against that background the position adopted in the Kok report, namely that we must achieve better implementation of the agreements in their entirety, is welcome.
He certainly addresses the issue of flexibility, but I see nothing about security.
I was her first vice-chairman for two and a half years.
When I spoke in similar terms within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs three or four years ago, I think my fellow Members were shocked.
It is now clear that, in fact, I was right and that the Stability and Growth Pact is a corset that is far too tight for growth, investment and employment to be able to develop in Europe.
In order to be convinced, we need only see that the three countries of the Union that have not adopted the euro and have preserved their monetary sovereignty are doing much better than the twelve that have chosen, within the framework of the European currency, to link their destinies and to entrust them to a veritable State Bank, a supreme bank that does not care two hoots about growth in Europe.
That said, I very much hope that the consequences of choosing the euro will be at the centre of the next electoral campaign since, in my view, this is the main problem between Europe and its citizens today. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union, despite all its successes, lives with the worry of creating new jobs, because this is one of the fundamental rights of European citizens and is also the best precondition for growth and social cohesion between us.
The employment guidelines and the Luxembourg procedure in general are very important in achieving this objective, which is why the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs always examines them with close interest.
I could reiterate many of the positions formulated by my fellow Members; however, I shall comment for my part on certain points which I consider should be highlighted.
It affects all sectors of economic policy, of social policy, of education policy, of vocational training, of transparency, of the fight against tax evasion and of undeclared work.
Research and innovation have been particularly highlighted recently.
I agree with the rapporteur's proposals about transparency and simpler procedures and about information on making the best possible use of the structural funds.
Another issue on which I want to comment is the issue of structural reform, mainly in the fiscal sector and in the social security sector.
Unfortunately size does matter in a situation where we must keep to the employment guidelines and yet overall unemployment and the budget deficit in the new Member States are roughly double that of the EU 15.
Implementation is important, as some people have touched on – in Amendment 5 for example, concerning youth unemployment and as regards women in the workplace – but we also have to look at the issue of older workers, the rapidly ageing population of working age.
It is vital with regard to this issue, which is one of the last the Committee on Employment will address before the end of the mandate, that we register that the players concerned by this Lisbon goal are insufficiently aware of the strategy being pursued.
Also important are the quality of lifelong learning and the regional impact of issues like equal funding and market discrimination.
The employment rate at the moment is 64%; achieving 70% by 2010 would entail creating 22&#160;million jobs in the new 25-Member European Union.
Only through the development of competitiveness and growth potential will Europe achieve this rise in employment and productivity.
The 2004 Spring Summit therefore drew up employment recommendations with the aim of highlighting priority areas for action by each Member State and underlining the need to strengthen the exchange of good practice and experience, which have a fundamental role in European employment strategy.
My country, for instance, Portugal, is well on the way to meeting the Lisbon employment objectives, even though it has recently seen its unemployment rate go up, mainly because certain multinationals have pulled out.
Let us not evade the issues, however: the economic environment we have in Europe today is very different from the one that formed the backdrop to the Lisbon Summit in 2000.
The economic and financial situation in certain Member States demands tough policies to curb public spending and, most of all, structural reforms as a precondition for economic growth and job creation.
I am certain that without structural reforms Europe will not achieve the levels of growth needed to implement the Lisbon objectives. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Romano Prodi recently stated that recovery in Germany and Italy is non-existent, which means that this year will see a continuation of all the same old uncertainties, doubts and risks as to economic recovery in the euro zone.
All this statement does is carry over the pessimistic forecasts made by the Commission for 2004 into the political field.
This then is the background against which we must analyse how Europe’s economic situation develops in the framework of the broad economic policy guidelines.
We do in fact have at our disposal powerful theoretical instruments, such as those resulting from the Lisbon Strategy or arising from the good practice associated with economic policy coordination.
We also have powerful limitations, however, such as those resulting from too strict an interpretation of the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP), which demolish all the efforts we make.
The issue is becoming more and more political, or, put another way, a matter of choices, and while it is true that there can only be long-term, sustainable economic development with financial consolidation, it is also true that there will be no financial consolidation, even in the short term, without economic growth.
Europe needs a new agenda, focusing on the problems of the economy and employment, in place of the current agenda, focusing on the budget deficit and public spending, which have become a veritable obsession.
What Europe really needs is structural reforms, but it also needs the financial means to carry them through.
Reform of the SGP is inevitable, partly because this instrument has, strictly speaking, been suspended since 25 November.
The new rules can no longer ignore the changes in the economic cycle, or fail to take account of each Member State’s individual situation without prejudice to the efforts to achieve budget conciliation for the whole euro zone.
They certainly can no longer ignore the role of public investment and quality spending in the framework of development.
Aiming at a zero budget deficit in the euro zone over the long term is complete folly, is not supported by any economic theory and would result in the absurdity of a public debt that would, after all, be no better than zero.
It also seems to me that the link between the structural funds, territorial restructuring impact policies and employment policy is vital for the achievement of territorial cohesion, a tool for genuine polycentrism in the European Union.
The need for concerted action on the part of the European Union, the Member States, the regions and local authorities and, of course, social dialogue, are other important tools in the application of these directives. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, as this is the final debate on the broad economic policy guidelines of this Parliament, perhaps we could carry out a more general survey.
Primary responsibility lies with the Member States.
Unfortunately, we cannot also say the same of the management of the real economy.
We must stop worshiping the market, which has failed miserably because, if you take the 30 years after the Second World War, the mixed economy achieved full employment and high rates of growth.
If you take the next 30 years, during which the doctrine of the free economy has triumphed, full employment has collapsed and the European economy has stagnated and weakened.
It is time we realised this. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner Dimas, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we need a public debate on our economic and employment policy objectives and the reform measures they call for, and one that is much more in-depth than that currently going on in the Member States and at European level.
In it, rather than setting social policy at odds with the market, we affirm our belief in the social market economy, in sustainability and in full employment; we do not play the various areas off against each other, for they are all mutually dependent and mutually complementary.
If we communicate this, in these terms, to the public and know ourselves bound by these basic principles and by this interaction, this reciprocity, then we will be able to implement the guidelines all the more efficiently.
Let us take these objectives and make them into action plans and timetables!
Careful monitoring of these procedures on your part, in close contact with your counterparts in the national parliaments, is the to success, especially within the framework of the interim review of the Lisbon strategy.
I am delighted that the amendments are in line with the strategy which we have agreed on in order to strengthen the economy and employment in the European Union.
The vote will take place at 11.00 a.m. (1) &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank all the French Members of this House most warmly and congratulate them on the French Government's action in deporting from France the Imam of Venissieux on the grounds of his misogynistic utterances.
Right now, I would rather like to sing the 'Marseillaise', but perhaps it will be sufficient for me to say, '' &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two things I want to say.
We will also be considering legal action to test whether the rights of Members of this House can be set aside by sweeping aside all the amendments, as was done in this instance.
It is because we regard this as a very serious course of action that our group will not be taking part in today’s vote on the Boogerd-Quaak report on the media, thereby recording our protest and our inability to accept this decision.
Firstly, in relation to the issue raised concerning the disappearance of documents, I have written to President Cox, as he requested yesterday, and I have sent a copy to all my colleagues, the Group Presidents, explaining that certain documents did indeed disappear, but thanks to the efforts of the assistants and the officials of the Groups and the committee, they were replaced before the start of the meeting.
We have over 600 votes to get through this morning.
The difference between saying ‘breached some of the Rules’ and saying ‘systematic breaches’ is merely one of intellectual integrity, or otherwise.
Mr President, I am indeed aware of the letter which Mr Barón Crespo sent to the President's office concerning his unfortunate and malicious statements of yesterday, and confirming them in exactly the same terms as in his speech.
Documents which, moreover, are public and which, besides being available in the documentation department, are also available on the Internet.
Therefore, Mr President, I would emphasise that no political group – including the Group of the Party of European Socialists – nor any member of the Committee on Freedoms made any comment or statement on the matter, neither during the course of voting on the amendments nor at the start of the same.
Furthermore, Mr President, at the end of the sitting I was congratulated by all the political groups for the way in which the work had been carried out.
We also challenge the fact that this Chamber is used for strictly exploitative ends, choosing who can and who cannot speak.
This system has been going on for a long time.
Democracy must be respected, above all else, in this Chamber, and not by making statements in newspapers and by giving out insults. &#160;&#160; Here is a very pragmatic suggestion, Mr&#160;President.
Since the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Union for Europe of the Nations Group are relinquishing their participation in the vote on the great report, I would suggest that you have a block vote, which will save time. &#160;&#160; We shall look at that when we come to the vote on the report. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, this is just a reminder that yesterday, as announced, I submitted a motion to refer the report back to committee.
The European Parliament and the Australian Parliament have had direct political contact since 1981 and we look forward to continuing our interesting and successful dialogue. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, quite simply, extremely objectively and in order to get out of this row between old accomplices – which is more like a mafia row than a parliamentary one – I would, with respect, like to hope that, faced with this situation and this debate, the President of Parliament might wish to honour us with his Presidency in this House.
I believe that this does not in any way detract from your well-known, excellent ability to preside, Mr&#160;Martin, but I think that President Cox could come himself, with his authority – and I would also say with his clarity – and preside over this sitting. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to intervene briefly in accordance with Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure.
Indeed, a motion requesting referral back to committee has been proposed and as you know, in this case, there can be one speaker in favour and one against. &#160;&#160; Mr Gollnisch, the request has not yet been formally made.
I will take that formal request when we get to the vote on the report.
That being so, the divisions have been inevitable.
Mr Ribeiro e Castro will propose – as is his right – referral back.
The House, in its wisdom, can then decide.
Finally, can I say that over the past 24 hours I have asked the services of the House to conduct, on my behalf, their own investigation into this question of documentation at a committee meeting earlier this week.
As before, it improves another half-hearted Commission proposal for a regulation on actions in the field of beekeeping.
Neither the Commission nor the Council have made much of a response to the many good proposals we have made since 1984 on saving beekeeping in Europe.
Since 1997, admittedly, there has been a regulation on the 50% cofinancing of national programmes to improve the production and marketing of honey, for which different amounts are made available to the 15 Member States every year; in one year EUR&#160;10 million, in another EUR&#160;15 million, in yet another EUR&#160;16 million.
As, yet again, the new regulation proposed by the Commission is far too half-hearted, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has adopted my suggested improvements by an overwhelming majority, with the particular intention of securing additional co-finance for measures under national programmes to support the restoration and development of the Community's bee population, in support of honey analysis laboratories, and for the analysis of honey.
My hope and expectation is that you will give this report your unanimous support, not as a farewell present to mark the end of a legislative period, but, as before, out of conviction. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wanted to thank the Commission and the Council for making it possible for this document to be adopted today, within four months of its submission, and at first reading.
After the phrase 'facilitating the access of unemployed young people to their first job', we would like to add 'and also the employment/continuance in employment of older people'. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I just wish out point out, so that Members are not in any way confused, that it is Amendment 1 – the first vote on this report – which ascertains whether or not Parliament is in favour of the theory of setting up a health scheme for former Members.
This is, however, an extremely serious further breach of the EP Rules of Procedure that we are being forced to commit – or rather those who will vote will be forced to commit – on the basis of the bad decision, taken yesterday by President Cox, not to give a ruling and to make this Parliament decide to put to the vote the original text, understood as the consolidated text that was put forward by the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
I would say to my fellow Members – who do not know the ins and outs of this case – that they have one last chance to prevent a serious injustice, a precedent that could become dangerous for the future, by voting to refer this report back to committee or by rejecting it. &#160;&#160; We will not reopen the debate.
It violates the provisions and the guarantees of the Treaties and, even if the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Constitution were already in force in the terms spoken of by some people, it would make a complete nonsense of these two texts too.
You have one minute to speak in favour and one minute to speak against. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would just like to say that the President was practically forced to issue this ruling – for that is what it is – because an element of this Parliament sought to prevent the majority from giving its opinion.
This is a situation forced on us by the stonewalling that they imposed, in the sense that this is an exceptional measure, in line with the powers given to the President of Parliament.
This is the situation that we have today, a situation without precedent and one which I hope the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – which is a large group in this Parliament – will want to give due consideration to, so that we are not forced into such a situation again. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Rules of Procedure allow for the interventions of the person tabling the motion, of one speaker in favour and of one against.
I am in full agreement with this motion for referral back to committee, but I would like to add an essential reason, which is that the text of the proposed report particularly targets Italy, as is shown in the heading.
There are, however, countries in our European Union where freedom of expression is much more seriously threatened.
Here there are two words that have been deemed inadmissible: the words ‘serious’ and ‘persistent’.
I ask you to highlight this since you have put this paragraph to the vote without this being stressed. &#160;&#160; You are absolutely right, we did indeed vote on the paragraph without those two words.
I could have taken everything in one single vote if I so wished. &#160;&#160; I apologise, Mr&#160;President, to you and my fellow Members, but as shadow rapporteur it is my duty to keep an eye on the little standard procedure that remains in this vote.
I would also like to wish the services of the sitting the best of luck in the task they will have in putting right some paragraphs: paragraphs 59 and 69, for example.
This is a difficult situation, Mr President; it really is a real mess. &#160;&#160; Again, Mr Santini, in relation to citation 12, you are correct.
You should have been informed of this before the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the House knows, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy was deeply divided over whether or not to ratify the third generation agreement with Pakistan.
However we are not divided on our concern for human rights and democracy, and the resolution before the House was supported unanimously by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
The reason I recommend this is that when this House agreed to ratify the third generation agreement, it gave a commitment to review progress on human rights and democracy after one year.
The position the Committee on Foreign Affairs puts forward in this resolution under my name is the appropriate benchmark for judging how much progress has been made.
I respect the fact that there were sincerely-held views on both sides in the debate over Pakistan.
I would therefore like to thank Members for all their individual contributions during the time I had the honour to be rapporteur.
Mr President, I very much welcome the fact that President Cox paid you such an outstanding tribute today when your authority in the Chair was challenged, since you have been an outstanding chairman of these proceedings.
You are an asset to this House and I hope you return. &#160;&#160; I have had the privilege of being a Vice-President of this House for 15 years and a Member of the House for 20 years.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank colleagues for their support and for giving me the privilege of chairing this House.
The fact is that unilateral withdrawal of troops from Iraq at the present time, without the assumption of responsibilities by the United Nations, would certainly be highly problematic and could well plunge the country into chaos.
With the agreement of the rapporteur, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, concerning Item 4 regarding the defence of the interests of indigenous populations and of minorities, to add these few words reflecting a situation that again came visibly to the fore just a week ago.
In Parliament we are, however, as legislators, not obliged to say that we are in agreement with the Commission, but obliged to say what we ourselves want, as a Parliament.
In relation to the Parliamentary report, there is general agreement underlining the need to retain the programme of support for the production and marketing of honey.
It is also essential, however, to take account of the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union and to provide for an increase in the budget allocated to the beekeeping sector. &#160;&#160; . – We voted against the report not because we disagree with it, but because everything it rightly points out is cancelled out by the first amendment, which promotes the coexistence of genetically modified, conventional and organic crops, allowing beekeepers to manufacture honey which contains GMOs.
The existence of genetically modified crops, in conjunction with a 0.9% limit on GMOs in honey, presupposes that bees can choose between genetically modified and non-genetically modified plants.
The European Parliament should take the same stand; however, it appears to have been converted by interests and pressure a long time ago. &#160;&#160; . – I voted for the proposal for a regulation, because I believe that the enlargement of the European Union must not fail to take account of the changes that will necessarily affect the beekeeping sector, and that an increase in the budget allocated to it is justified.
Furthermore, liberalisation seems to be incompatible with safety, since some countries have had to renationalise following repeated accidents.
For all these reasons, the Hunting Fishing Nature Traditions (CPNT) Party Members will vote against a common rail market created on the basis of social dumping and with no prior study of its impact on the main interested parties: rail users and employees. &#160;&#160; . – It is deeply regrettable that a majority in Parliament has voted in favour of the liberalisation of international rail transport from 1&#160;January 2006 and of national rail transport from 1&#160;January 2007, the year 2010 having been set as a standing objective for all operators to prepare in an appropriate manner for the liberalisation of passenger transport services, in advance of current Commission initiatives to accelerate the opening-up of this sector to competition.
This is the corollary of the initiative that the Commission submitted on 24&#160;January 2002, with the aim of accelerating the liberalisation of rail transport without first taking account of experience already gained, particularly in Great Britain.
The amendment of Directive 91/440 increases even more the liberalisation of rail transport.
In addition, the date of 2010 has been clearly announced for the liberalisation of passenger transport services, ‘objectives allowing all operators to prepare in an appropriate manner’.
In rejecting these results, this is the perspective that we mean to stand up for, together with our citizens, the railwaymen and their trade unions. &#160;&#160; ,. – The Conciliation Committee has reached an agreement on the directive on the development of the Community’s railways.
Licensed railway undertakings will be granted access rights to international rail freight services from 1 January 2006 at the latest, and to national rail freight services from 1 January 2007.
The Council, however, accepted a recital whereby, with regard to opening up the international passenger services market, the date of 2010 must be considered as ‘an objective allowing all operators to prepare themselves as necessary’.
The provision of train services by a competing company, since bought up by the international transport giant Connex-Vivendi, has also been terminated.
The rapporteur invited us to approve the joint text after the Conciliation Committee had achieved consensus by weighing up the divergent positions of the Commission and of Parliament, through the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the timetable for the opening-up of the market to freight services, the main point of disagreement.
What is really justified, then, is heavy investment in the whole railway industry. &#160;&#160; . – This initiative is part of the package liberalising rail transport.
I must stress that the first article in this directive points out that the objective is the opening-up of the rail network to competition, with the intention of harmonising safety rules across the European Union.
The Commission’s power of control in this area is also strengthened: it is specifically given the power to suspend the application of a national safety rule for a maximum period of six months.
The Member States have agreed to an extension of the Commission’s powers in this area so as to facilitate the enforcement of the Community rules without, however, ruling out the enforcement of tougher national legislation.
The importance of the role of staff training measures in the development of rail transport has also been enhanced.
I agree with this report and voted for it. &#160;&#160; . – We have here an integral part of the so-called second railway package drawn up by the Commission, which seeks to revitalise this particular transport sector.
The proposal also provides for a new institutional approach, through the idea of setting up a European Railway Agency as a regulatory body for the system and a joint supervisory authority that can manage and ensure safety in the sector.
In this situation, we do not wish to express an opinion on the precise levels to be achieved by the new budget, partly because the costs are difficult to predict and the priorities not established and partly because we do not wish to tie the new Parliament to precise figures. &#160;&#160; .We voted in favour of this report, thereby endorsing the wishes of the unions, although it even denies the right to vote to union representatives who sit on executive boards, something which should be a minimum requirement.
That being said, and given that this report is part of a package aimed at the ‘liberalisation’ of the railway system, we must reiterate our absolute opposition to any form of privatisation of the railways, which should be a public service throughout Europe. &#160;&#160; . – This report supports the draft regulation establishing a European Railway Agency, which is a further fundamental step towards the Commission’s objective of revitalising the whole European railway industry at both freight and passenger transport levels.
The revitalisation of our railways has to be a top priority for the European Union. &#160;&#160; . – I support the extension of Regulation (EC) No 975/1999 – which underpins the European Union’s human rights activities in the framework of development cooperation – so as to take account of the financial perspective, which runs until 2006, and at the same time to adapt it technically to the new Financial Regulation.
In particular, I greatly welcome the proposal for the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission to create specific institutional mechanisms to allow for greater involvement of civil society and non-governmental organisations, with the principal aim of promoting democracy and human rights.
On the other hand, I am concerned at certain details that indicate the great difficulties faced by small and medium-sized organisations in civil society to have their applications for funding granted – despite the micro-projects facility – because of complicated administrative mechanisms.
Lille in 2004 gives us a perfect and remarkable illustration of this being done. &#160;&#160; .
We will all agree that we need to find a fairer way of ensuring that all Member States have an equal opportunity to promote their culture, particularly following the enlargement which is due to take place in a few weeks.
At the European summit last week in Brussels my country was not considered on the issue of appointing a director to the ECB.
That is just a wish that I wanted to express here. &#160;&#160; .– I congratulate Michel Rocard on his excellent report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision amending Decision 1419/1999/EC establishing a Community action for the ‘European Capital of Culture’ event for the years 2005 to 2019, to which I give my full support, especially as regards designating two European Capitals of Culture every year from 2009.
The aim of doing this is to ensure the success of the initiative. &#160;&#160; . – The Commission proposal aims only at supporting the nomination of one city from a new Member State in addition to the one from a current Member State from 2009 to 2018 and does not regulate the procedure for any other enlargement candidates.
I believe, therefore, that success depends on not diluting attention by multiplying events and on giving new impetus and dynamism to this process by reintroducing competition at European level and encouraging the nomination of candidate cities each year.
The selection panel, whose role is both to encourage nominations and to judge them, should set requirements and give advice to encourage the nominated cities’ projects to include a real European dimension.
I therefore believe that the amendments made by the rapporteur to the Commission proposal are fully justified, as can be seen from the unanimous approval that the report received in committee.
In conjunction with the 'freedom' of movement of workers, who will have to wander about like nomads from country to country looking for work, this measure helps to depress wages and demands, using workers from poorer countries as a pressure lever.
At the same time, the Europass makes big business responsible for evaluating the educational and professional qualifications of the workers, taking this role away from the education system, and helps to decouple qualifications from the right to work.
For these reasons, we MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report. &#160;&#160; . – Taking this action aimed at ensuring the transparency of diplomas and qualifications by means of appropriate instruments falls within the same process, designed to promote mobility, as the ECTS system, certificate supplements, the European CV and the Erasmus and Erasmus Mundus programmes.
The two objectives of this decision, ‘to rationalise and to coordinate’, will only be achieved if all the Member States increase their efforts to implement these ‘Europass’-labelled documents quickly and effectively.
Without impairing other programmes, we must nevertheless allocate ourselves the resources to match our ambition to ‘make Europe’s education and training systems a world quality reference by 2010’. &#160;&#160; . – This proposal has the objective of drawing together into a single framework, to be known as a ‘Europass’, various initiatives aimed at ‘helping’ workers to set out their competences and experience in a way that employers and education/training providers in other Member States may be able to understand.
Each of these documents already exists, as a result of cooperation with the Council of Europe and/or UNESCO.
The question that arises is what basic motive lies behind the development of these instruments: is it to add value to a country’s human resources, or is it to enable economically more developed countries to exploit the workers and their mobility? &#160;&#160; .
I am all the more delighted since on several occasions, by means of amendments, I have emphasised lifelong learning and training, and have proposed that we map out and identify a genuine European pathway of learning enabling young people to optimise their training in several countries of the Union, so acquiring a greater diversity of skills and adding a European dimension to their career path, which will be a ‘plus’ on their CV and in the performance of their work.
Its aim is to establish a Community framework to achieve transparency in qualifications and competences by creating a portfolio of interlinked personal documents, to be known as a Europass, which citizens may use on a voluntary basis to communicate and set out their qualifications and competences better throughout Europe.
I voted in favour of the report. &#160;&#160; . – Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) account for about 99.8% of the enterprises in the European Union and about two-thirds of the employment.
The Growth and Employment Initiative (1998-2000), despite its shortage of funds and much publicity, had the objective of promoting job creation through support for SMEs.
It was replaced with the Programme for Enterprise and Entrepreneurship (2001-2005), which introduced mechanisms providing guarantees and access to risk capital, such as the Joint European Venture (JEV), which is now being wound up, thereby jeopardising the EUR 42 million of unused funds.
The programmes aimed at SMEs need an injection of funds but also a change in objectives: they must promote job creation; support the formation of associations; support research and training; provide guarantees for all the critical phases in the life of a start-up company; improve the geographical spread of support (broadly concentrated in the countries in the centre of the European Union); and support not just high-technology companies but also traditional and craft enterprises. &#160;&#160; . – This Commission proposal suggesting amendments to the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, is very important.
This measure is justified by the impossibility of using the remainder of the budget for projects involving accession and candidate countries, and by the fact that simplifying, as opposed to deactivating, the project would entail losing the unused budget commitments of approximately EUR 42 million.
The Commission also insists on improving the coverage of research activities under the ETF Start-up Facility, so as to increase the availability of risk capital to new and innovative SMEs.
The rapporteur suggests that, in addition to support for the start-up and initial development phase, as the Commission proposes, there should also be better coverage of other phases in the life of a new company, and he also underlines the importance of improving the geographical spread in the take-up of the remaining facilities.
The proposal is enhanced by these contributions by the rapporteur, and I therefore voted in favour of it. &#160;&#160; . – The aim of this proposal is to continue the Content programme on digital content.
The aim of the new Content programme is to make digital content in the European Union more accessible, useable and exploitable, in order to facilitate the creation and diffusion of information and knowledge in areas of public interest at Community level.
The programme will have EUR 163 million available for the period 2005-2008, and a specific aspect of the programme will be to improve the quality of digital content.
I do have reservations, however, when it comes to exploitation, particularly at the level of the reuse of public-sector information or the promotion of cross-border services – a pan-European market for digital content, which must not take place to the detriment of universal access to public information or limit the benefits of development in the sector, either to consumers or to the main operators.
I warmly welcome the agreement because trade is a means of opening up dialogue on those areas in which there are still major concerns about democracy and human rights.
This report and resolution clearly convey the importance that Parliament attaches to upholding human rights and democracy.
Before the vote in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I contacted Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and Christian Solidarity Worldwide to request that they lobby MEPs to oppose ratification.
Christian Solidarity Worldwide promptly circulated a briefing to MEPs.
Human Rights Watch did not respond.
In 2003 both issued reports condemning Pakistan.
In a previous question to the Commission concerning the existence of studies on the impact of this Agreement on the textile and clothing sector in the EU, in Portugal for example, the Commissioner said – so as to avoid having to say that there were no such studies – that it was ‘unlikely to have a significant impact’.
I must also express my opposition to the fact that, among other elements, the Agreement requires a commitment from Pakistan to conclude readmission agreements concerning Pakistani nationals living illegally in the EU.
This military intervention against progressive governments has created a breeding-ground for Islamic fundamentalism and for groups that want to set individual sections of the population against each other.
These groups have been able to continue their activities legally under the military regime.
Current President Musharraf was until a few years ago regarded as a dangerous general who had seized power in a coup, who wanted to make his country a nuclear power, was creating space for a very conservative interpretation of Islam and cooperated with the Taliban regime in neighbouring Afghanistan.
This proposal gives him the same status in Europe.
The areas of cooperation between Pakistan and the EU contained in this Agreement are extremely varied.
It should be emphasised, however, that although human rights are considered to be a universal objective, observance of these rights must not be a prerequisite or a condition for relations between States.
Unemployment continues to rise in the European Union – by 1.5 million between 2002 and 2003.
Against this backdrop, we could not vote in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; . – The Lisbon guidelines, the decisions by the Spring Summit and the guidelines in the Commission communication constitute the framework for a violent attack on the workers.
The citizens of Europe as a whole, and those in Portugal in particular, demand more rigorous action from the European Union and the credibility of the process depends on reforms being stepped up at Member State level.
Priority must be given to helping young people enter the labour market and get their first job; to penalising fraud arising from the phenomenon of relocation; to preparing for technological and economic change, by exploiting new areas of work in the field of information technology; to taking practical steps to promote and encourage vocational training courses – including lifelong learning, by simplifying the procedures for access to funding; and to improving ways of disseminating best practice. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when I arrived in this Parliament, 18 years ago, in a situation very different from the one that is allowing me to speak now, and even before financial perspectives were discussed, there were already arguments about own resources and the Spanish Socialists were already fighting for idea of a citizens' graduated tax system.
In this situation, we do not wish to express an opinion on the precise levels to be achieved by the new budget, partly because the priorities have not been established at this early stage and partly because we do not wish to tie the new Parliament to precise figures.
I welcome the fact, however, that Parliament rejected Amendments Nos&#160;16, 17 and 18, which were intended to restrict the average annual Community budget to a maximum of 1% of Community GNP – in line with the wishes of the signatories of the ‘Letter of the Six’ – and to renationalise, or, to put it more accurately, to do away with the Community regional policy. &#160;&#160; .
To start with, much of the European Union's imports arrive through the port of Rotterdam.
In 1999 the Netherlands still received 3.5% of the European agriculture budget, but by 2004 this had fallen to 2.1%.
Correcting the flaws in the Berlin Agreement is the best way of restoring the Netherlands to its rightful position in the European Union.
We are aware of the fact that there is a cost to enlargement and that this must be funded jointly.
Naturally, we must show solidarity with our new Member States.
We are against reflecting in future Community resources the principle of dealing at national level with the consequences of policies decided at Community level and we are against calling on the peoples to foot the bill twice.
A financial framework for a multiannual period (from 2007 until 2013, or a minimum period of five years), arising from the adoption of the financial perspectives, has undeniably lent financial and political stability to the European Union’s actions.
Against this backdrop, the expectations of administrative operators, Member States and the public have resulted in efficiency gains and have led to more ambitious and significant projects.
The European Commission is proposing to meet three strategically crucial aims of the forthcoming financial perspective: to improve competitiveness, growth potential and territorial cohesion, to establish an area of security, freedom and justice and to develop external relations.
Furthermore, the Hunting, Fishing, Nature and Traditions (CPNT) members of the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities believe that the disappearance of the Community initiative known as Leader + is particularly regrettable since the cohesion policy will now focus on cities to the detriment of rural areas.
The increasing desertification of these areas therefore appears, unfortunately, to be inevitable.
Solidarity between the peoples of the European Union, economic and social progress and the strengthening of cohesion feature among the European Union’s general objectives.
For many, the main fear elicited by enlargement is that of seeing the regional funds currently available in the fifteen Member States disappear to the sole benefit of the ten new members.
The European Union must continue its support in the regions of the Fifteen affected in particular by natural geographic handicaps.
The Council, the Commission and Parliament cannot remain idle on this issue.
The success of these guidelines hinges upon the European budget, which must match the ambitions we have set ourselves. &#160;&#160; . – The report again finds that EU regional policy has failed.
There are still huge inequalities in the development of several areas, while the prospects for the poorer Member States are unpropitious.
These areas account for 75% of the country's population and to date most of them were eligible Objective 1 areas, with acute and increasing social and economic problems which the proposed transitional 'temporary support' will only extend.
Greece is a typical example for another reason: the promotion and concentration of resources in certain areas, such as Attica, which exacerbates the wider regional problem of the over-concentration of the population in the towns.
At the same time, while there is a great deal of talk about supporting remote areas, the ΕU continues without justification – and despite our repeated proposals – to exempt the Aegean islands from special treatment for remote areas, despite the very serious problems they face. 'Cohesion' and 'increasing levels of development' clash in practice with the policies which preach them, in that these policies serve big business.
I feel that it is inadequate merely to allude to a specific programme being established to offset the particular difficulties faced by the outermost regions, or to implement a ['wider European neighbourhood'] action aimed at facilitating cooperation with their neighbouring countries.
We know that the outermost regions are, accordingly, the parts of Europe that have the greatest difficulty in making the most of opportunities arising from the great internal market and from the impending enlargement.
Such projects can have a major impact in an area, and this has, fortunately, been the case in Portugal.
The unanimous support given to this report in the relevant committee also reflects the wide consensus among European citizens in favour of genuine European social cohesion throughout the European Union.
More specifically, I welcome the confirmation of principles such as, for example, the need to retain temporary phasing-in support, which will vary between 85% and 60%, for regions that no longer belong to Objective 1, because they are victims of what is known as the statistical effect of the limit of 75% of GDP being reduced due to enlargement.
I am also pleased that the Cohesion Fund is to be maintained as a support mechanism for major projects in the sectors of transport and the environment in Member States whose GNP is below 90% of the Community average.
Of course, these projects go hand in hand with the Community regional policy, but the EIB also supports the implementation of the Lisbon neo-liberal agenda.
We therefore welcome the decision to hold a public hearing in Autumn 2004 into the EIB’s activities and political guidelines.
Nothing has changed, because no one has been prepared to take responsibility for Eurostat.
This affair has also shed light on serious problems and irregularities in working methods and internal monitoring, on the part of both the Commission and OLAF, such as the lack of effective enforcement of existing rules.
Procedures are important.
Our Union, however, is in the process of multiplying procedures to the point where there will soon be more inspectors than people being inspected.
The person first appointed to handle the matter, Commissioner Solbes, is now a Minister in the new Spanish Government.
The title alone must suggest that freedom of expression and information are in question in Italy under the Berlusconi government.
Practically all strands of political opinion in Italy are represented by their own newspapers.
Indeed, even Berlusconi's own vehicles express criticism of the government.
A certain trend in left-wing opinion is very unhappy at the idea that they cannot entirely monopolise the media.
As has been highlighted, the highest concentration of the audiovisual market anywhere in Europe is in Italy, where the market is dominated by two players, RAI and Mediaset.
Criticism of the situation in Italy must not, however, be used to deflect attention from what is happening in other countries.
They are abusing democracy in order to abolish democracy.
Some say that the subject of the report is covered by Article 7 of the Treaty.
Even if, however, this were already in force, note should be taken of Article 51 – retained, moreover, in the draft Constitution – according to which the Charter is applicable to the European institutions and the Member States only in the case of national actions implementing Community law.
It is clear to everyone that this is an Italian dispute, but we must specifically refrain from interfering in national conflicts, whether they break out in Italy or in any other Member State.
It is a threat to democracy.
Furthermore, the subsidiarity principle has clearly been violated.
The basic problem, however, is that, through a dubious issue of procedure, Parliament was not given the opportunity to vote on the amendments that had been tabled and that were aimed at improving the report.
Most of these amendments came from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and, as a result of the proposals never having been put to the vote, the PPE-DE Group chose not to take part in the vote.
I agree with the PPE-DE Group’s criticism to the effect that the amendments should have been debated in plenary, but I nonetheless think that it is the duty of each elected Member to take part in the vote.
We therefore find ourselves faced with a real European problem, since this pluralism of the media, which is absolutely essential both for cultural diversity and for democracy, is still not guaranteed.
It may at first seem a little peculiar to see who is voting on the one hand for the trade agreement while at the same time supporting the resolution on the issue of human rights in Pakistan.
We have pushed forward the issue of developing Pakistan's economy which, I believe, was an important step in ensuring that we will see further democratisation in Pakistan, further work towards the development of human rights, and fulfilment of the demands made in our second resolution which I was happy to support.
Voting in favour thus entails, first and foremost, being perfectly aware of the serious breaches of human rights and democracy that occur in Pakistan and, consequently, exerting on Pakistan all the pressure that we can and must exert in order to reverse that trend.
Additionally, the resolution has enabled those people who fight for human rights and democracy to vote in favour of signing the Agreement.
Given that human rights and democracy are two of the main aims of the European Union – and ones to which I subscribe completely – they must be seen as such: as aims and not as conditions for relations between countries.
The pragmatic context of international relations would justify such prerequisites, but the countries involved would become isolated, and therefore unable to persuade other countries to meet these aims.
The development of events is worrying, especially in the light of the fact that the Senate has passed new constitutional laws that extend the military’s influence and make it a permanent feature.
The solution can only lie in the transfer of political control, working with the support of the United Nations, in order to support the emergence of a peaceful, democratic and prosperous Iraq. &#160;&#160; .– The resolution on Transatlantic relations proposes strengthening cooperation between the ΕU and the USA, through the creation of 'a long-term collaborative framework for cooperation and the launching of a joint Action Programme', including in the military sector, the main pretext being 'the Fight on Terrorism'.
We are not, for example, opposed to social rights, dependent upon a country’s economic conditions.
The position of the disabled is, of course, infinitely better in Sweden than in poor countries such as Bangladesh and Laos.
As for the brutal aggression and occupation of Iraq by the USA and its allies, not one word in the report... &#160;&#160; . – 2003 was an even blacker year for human rights, a year in which the people of Iraq were subject to the unprovoked and murderous attack of the USA and its European allies, while the people of Afghanistan and the Balkans continue to sigh and bleed beneath the boot of the conquerors.
Human rights are trampled over on a daily basis, while poverty and misery in both the third world and the developed countries grow worse.
The ΕU and other imperialist centres bear almost sole responsibility for this situation.
The original version of the report focused on just three areas and contained some provisions that were entirely out of place, particularly in areas such as terrorism and so-called reproductive health.
The rapporteur accepted a large number of amendments, which led to this less unbalanced version.
The various situations highlighted in the ‘new’ report are, nevertheless, almost all taken out of context.
I voted against the report.
What we are seeing is a clever move that will subtly pave the way for the European Union to deem the most diverse fields ‘human rights’ and to intervene in any area it wishes. &#160;&#160; .– The procedure to repeat the trial of Leyla Zana and her three other Kurdish fellow members of the Turkish parliament, at the request of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, was a parody of a trial just like the original proceedings which sentenced her to 15 years in prison for 'crimes' of opinion.
The new judgment against Leyla Zana and her three fellow members is a fresh insult to the European Parliament, which honoured Leyla Zana with the Sakharov prize in 1995, it is an insult to the European Court of Human Rights and it is an insult to European law and civilisation.
We expect the Commission, in view of the report on Turkey to be issued towards the end of the year, to multiply its efforts to bring about the release of Leyla Zana and a general amnesty for prisoners being detained for 'crimes' of opinion. &#160;&#160; .
This was a disgraceful decision that brought to a close a new trial, begun on 28&#160;March 2003, which was the result of a concerted international campaign to free Leyla Zana and her fellow MPs.
The fresh trial had been prompted by the 2001 ruling handed down by the European Court of Human Rights, in Strasbourg, which noted the lack of independence and impartiality of the State Security Court, and breaches of the defendants’ rights, which were to occur again in this second trial.
The European Union is called on simply to condemn this decision and to request that Leyla Zana, Hatip Dicle, Orhan Dogan and Selim Sadak be freed from prison.
The report paves the way for the private sector to enter the fields of pensions and health, at a time when over 1.5 million workers in the European Union have swelled the ranks of the unemployed since 2001, at a time when more and more companies are closing down and others relocating, and when the long-trumpeted upturn is taking its time to appear.
In the report I have drafted on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, I present the situation of women in south-east Europe as configured during the transitional period, compared with the previous situation.
My report complements the reports on relations between the Union and the countries of south-east Europe and the progress of these countries within the framework of the stabilisation and association agreements.
The report focuses mainly on the following sectors: education and economic activity, participation in democratic institutions, violence against women and sexual exploitation, health and reproductive rights and trafficking in women and children.
Nonetheless, the basic problems remain and the question of addressing them is not very high on the political agenda of the countries in the area.
There is no sign of change in numerous sectors and, where there is some change, it is very slow in coming.
The report analyses the problems, giving typical examples of the weaknesses in each individual country, in order to send a strong message to the governments of these countries, so that they can immediately develop actions and initiatives to combat discrimination against women and actively promote gender equality.
As far as education and the economy are concerned, the acute changes have differentiated to a major degree both the positions and possibilities of different generations of women.
Demographic trends today demonstrate that family life is no longer a primary life objective for women, who are more interested in their economic independence and professional achievement and are therefore investing more time and energy in education.
In numerous countries in the area, such as Greece, most university students are women.
As far as professional life is concerned, women are more often employees, in other words they are employed in the tertiary sector, in services, and are less often employers than men.
In the sectors in which women are mainly employed, pay is generally low and there are few prospects.
One of the main similarities between these countries in the political sector is the fast spread of non-governmental organisations which are active in women’s rights and are making a significant contribution to strengthening the position of women in employment and politics.
However, I must point out that, in comparison with other regions of Europe, such as central Europe, the Balkan countries have the highest level of exclusion of women from political decision-making positions.
As far as women's health and reproductive rights are concerned, I stress that particularly stressful living conditions, by which I mean the economy of survival based on the intensive exploitation of female human resources, the increase in violence against women and the fact that, in numerous countries, the health care systems have collapsed, put women's health at real risk.
As far as trafficking in women is concerned, south-east Europe in general has been identified in recent years as an area in which the trafficking networks act almost unimpeded.
To close, I should like to say that it is certain that the road towards the economic and social development of south-east Europe and respect for the rights of women depends on their integration into European structures and I should like to remind you that the European Council in Thessaloniki in June 2003 emphasised that it supported the European prospects of the countries of the western Balkans.
In its relations with the countries of South-East Europe the EU is striving to promote stability, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human and minority rights, including of course gender equality.
The Commission pays the utmost attention to ensuring that gender issues are integrated into the mainstream of all European Community assistance programmes as a cross-cutting issue.
The Thessaloniki agenda for the Western Balkans as endorsed by the EU-Western Balkans Summit in June 2003 specifically states that support for activities to defend women's rights and improve their situation should be better reflected in EU policies towards the region.
Involvement of non-governmental organisations, civil society and local authorities in EU-supported policies and activities is of paramount importance.
Regarding trafficking in human beings, in the Thessaloniki agenda the EU also urges the countries of the region to act both domestically and regionally in line with the principles of the EU and proposals contained in the Brussels Declaration of September 2002.
Most recently the Commission has pointed out in its 2004 report on the Stablisation and Association Process for South-East Europe that gender is insufficiently ensured and domestic violence remains a problem in several countries.
Although improvements have been made in certain countries on issues such as equal salaries, equal treatment of men and women concerning employment, training, career advancement and working conditions, and women's participation in government, progress is generally slow and insufficient.
Under the regional CARDS programme for 2002, the Commission published an open call for submission of proposals for support for the rule of law, good governance, public accountability and freedom of opinion.
Of the twenty-two projects selected for funding which are ongoing until 2005, one is funding a women's leadership programme and another a project on women in media.
With regard to the 2003 CARDS regional programme on democratic stabilisation, an open call for submissions was issued recently and the deadline for receiving proposals is 28 April.
While this programme does not specifically target women, it supports equality of men and women and the participation of diverse civil society groups and associations at local grassroots level in the process of strengthening democratic structures.
Furthermore, an additional call for proposals under the 2003 CARDS regional programme is due to be issued soon.
The programme proposes to strengthen capacities of civil society network associations in order to deliver better services to their member organisations.
As pointed out in the report, problems have also occurred and still exist in certain candidate countries.
In order to address this situation, from 1999 to 2003 gender equality projects under the PHARE national programme and MEDA totalled more than EUR 13 million.
During the same period, participation by the candidate countries in the Community programmes involved close to EUR 1&#160;million and gender equality projects financed under civil society programmes totalled EUR 2.5 million.
Once they are members of the European Union, these states will obviously be subject to the same obligations and benefit from the same instruments as other Member States.
This matter is being dealt with in the negotiations on the Union's social for the first two countries.
Recent legislation adopted in the three countries is improving the legal situation of women and the Commission is following the implementation of this legislation very closely. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Balkans are an area of vital importance to the European Union.
Historic experience and daily life in the European Union have demonstrated that development and prosperity cannot be achieved without democracy, without respect for human rights and special attention to women's rights, without making full use of the manpower of both sexes, without a dynamic civil society.
The seriousness, however, of the issues, as presented to us by the rapporteur in her report, and the challenge of addressing these issues, for the sake of development in the area and good collaborative relations with the European Union, warrant a special report.
I also take this opportunity to welcome the statement by Commissioner Nielson on including many of the proposals by my fellow Member in her report in the new CARDS programme.
Bulgaria is entirely lacking in mechanisms for creating equal opportunities between men and women, which is a prerequisite for transposing our rules.
In Serbia and Montenegro, there is a very clear increase in trafficking in women, also influenced by the arrival of Kafor troops.
The European Union must serve as an essential lever, as the incentive for these countries to commit themselves seriously to human rights and freedom for their citizens.
No cultural tradition can be placed above universal human rights.
Indeed, equal opportunities between men and women in this region deserve our utmost attention in light of the problems caused by all types of exploitation of women.
Human trafficking in south-east Europe is giving us the greatest cause for concern and worry.
I am sorry to say that women are, in large numbers, the main victims of this terrible trafficking.
The countries of this region too are called upon to take all measures necessary in order to put a stop to this modern slavery.
For my part, it is true that combating the trafficking in women is an absolute priority, in line with our European values based on the principle of respect for fundamental rights.
The horror of testimonies from Romanian, Moldavian and other women who have been sold for a handful of dollars is intolerable.
The marketing of women must be very strongly condemned.
Its political success and practical impact have become a guiding light for multilateral efforts to eradicate the legacies of hatred and lingering threat left by conflicts.
Since its entry into force significant progress has been made by the international community: 141 countries have ratified the MBT, 9 more countries have signed, over 110 countries are not using anti-personnel landmines, more than 30 million stockpiled mines have been destroyed by states parties to the Convention and, last but not least, mine action programmes are being successfully implemented in many mine-affected countries.
Approximately 65 countries are still affected to some degree by mines and unexploded ordnance and, unfortunately, new areas of conflict are adding to this list.
The importance attached by the EU to the goals of the Ottawa Convention became a tangible fact in 1997 when Parliament created the anti-personnel landmine budget line.
In March 2000, the first anniversary of the entry into force of the Ottawa Treaty, the European Commission issued a communication and forwarded to Parliament and the Council a draft regulation on the reinforcement of the EU contribution to the fight against landmines.
It contains an overall approach and detailed programming covering 33 countries for an average yearly EC contribution of about EUR 42 million.
Since the adoption of the APL regulation, the European Union has played a substantial and visible role in the fight against landmines, both in political terms and also in terms of financial commitments.
Looking at the broad picture for the years 2000 to 2002, contributions to mine action from the EU Member States and the European Community stood at a sum total of EUR&#160;410 million.
We know that failure to award sufficient priority to mine action would have enormous human costs and render its development fragile and fragmented.
The mine threat can be overcome.
The Nairobi Summit will be an appeal to all of us to do more and to do it faster.
Parliament's resolution provides a forceful and positive signal in this direction. &#160;&#160; Mr President, by definition all modern military weapons are a source of death and destruction, but antipersonnel mines are particularly pernicious as, after the cessation of hostilities, their continued presence results in the ongoing death and mutilation of innocent civilians, particularly children.
This often causes, for prolonged periods of time, massive social and economic problems in countries, many of which are already amongst the poorest in the world and suffering from the ravages of long-term war and disease.
That is why I particularly support the 1997 Ottawa Mine Ban Treaty on the prohibition of the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of antipersonnel mines and their eventual destruction.
I congratulate the 141 States which have ratified or acceded to this Treaty and call upon the four EU Member States remaining after enlargement on 1 May which have not yet done so – namely, Estonia, Latvia, Finland and Poland – to do so without any further delay.
I also wish every success to the November 2004 Nairobi Conference, which seeks to review the operation of this Convention and what further measures can be taken to implement its contents, in particular how to encourage armed, non-state actors to ban the use of antipersonnel landmines without recognising their legitimacy.
I also support that this Parliament sends a delegation of Members of this House, as observers, to the conference so that they can report back to the House on the progress in this very important area. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, often in the political arena there is confirmation that small policies, when applied, produce big results and that big policies, when announced but not applied, produce nothing.
In this particular case, the Ottawa Treaty, which was essentially signed seven years ago and has been in application for a very short time, has proven its applicability and efficacy and is therefore a successful policy .
The choice of holding the first conference to review this Treaty in Nairobi is particularly symbolic, because we all know that sub-Sahara is one of the areas which has the biggest concentration of anti-personnel mines, given that mines are considered to be the weapon of the poor.
I should like to take this opportunity to point out that my country, which remained outside this Treaty several years ago, also recently agreed with and ratified the Treaty under the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Georgos Papandreou, and has applied it in connection with its border with Turkey where, for reasons which we all understand, there was a cold front of confrontation.
The ultimate objective of the Ottawa Treaty is to overcome the problem of land mines through coordinated action against mines at international level within the next ten to fifteen years.
This objective is considered to constitute a challenge, because over sixty countries have stated that they are facing problems on this issue and 20 of them are very seriously affected.
The experience of Europe itself after the cold war, and recent experience in the Balkans, demonstrates that this huge problem even exists on our continent.
The United Nations plays the central role in organising and coordinating international efforts, while the European Union provides the greatest individual contribution.
Since 1992, before the Ottawa Treaty even existed, the sums quoted by the Commission to date are significant but should possibly be increased.
The European Parliament has undertaken a great many initiatives since 1992 in connection with a complete ban on this murder weapon, which exterminates human lives and prevents economic development.
Apart from neutralising mines, however, they need to pay greater attention to education, research and more general information in connection with the danger and how to prevent it.
The conference in Nairobi will provide a huge opportunity to apply all aspects of the Ottawa Treaty which have somehow not been applied due to technical shortcomings, to supplement the Treaty, to complete it and to give the world a new Treaty, a highly effective, albeit small-scale Treaty for the peace and security of the developing and, more importantly, the poor areas of the world. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the mine is an economic weapon, which has effects that are both physical and psychological, the latter being increased because of the insidious nature of mines.
Although the Ottawa agreement banning anti-personnel mines has now entered into force, only future conflicts are affected.
There are stocks that pose a threat of proliferation, and several Phare countries, such as the former Yugoslavia, the United States, China and Russia, should be encouraged to ratify this treaty.
Six years after the signing in Ottawa of a convention banning the use, stockpiling and production of anti-personnel mines, let us remember that it is said that, every year, there are still between 15&#160;000 and 20&#160;000 people in the world who are victims of such mines.
This is why it is our duty to continue the battle and, above all, to do everything possible to ensure that, finally, production of these mines comes to an end. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our fellow MEPs have rightly listed the problems caused by the enormous number of mines left behind, often for years, after conflicts throughout the world.
The European Parliament recently sent a delegation to Sudan where a civil war has been raging for 20 years.
Thankfully the war is over in some parts of the country, such as the Nuba Mountains in the south, but the people living there are now faced with the continued presence of thousands and thousands of mines.
I would therefore like to appeal directly to all those in the world who are responsible for making these mines.
I was shocked to discover in Sudan that Belgian mines are still being found there 20 to 30 years after they were made.
And that is despite the fact that my country, Belgium, was one of the first countries to work for the abolition of mines.
The same is true, of course, in those regions to which we are particularly committed, such as Africa, which we have been discussing today – and I agree with all those Members who have said that things are at their worst there – and also in Afghanistan.
Although we are doing everything to help Afghanistan, our aid is concentrated on a few cities; this is due not only to errors of political judgement on our part, but also to the fact that there are so many mines scattered over wide stretches of the country that reconstruction there is making little if any headway.
It would be utterly absurd, though, if we were to deploy massive resources – as we must – in support of mine action programmes, while, at the same time, states such as our partners or even certain prospective Member States were to be producing new mines, which would then be laid.
For this reason, there is no alternative to a ban, which must include all Member States of the European Union, and behind which we must throw our whole weight, both economically and in terms of foreign policy.
The problem of increasing the number of countries actually complying with and ratifying the Treaty is still a real problem.
As a Danish government minister I signed the Ottowa Treaty on behalf of my country.
I felt sorry for him and gave him the pen I had just used to sign, saying that at least his government would have a pen that knew how to sign the Treaty.
The most important and effective thing way of proceeding in post-conflict situations is, if possible, to have the two sides in a conflict join together in demining mapping.
Nicaragua was a good example of this, even though that was never a dirty guerrilla war.
Having said that, local communities were mobilised in a fantastic way in Cambodia to provide intelligence for mapping, and a long-term broad participatory approach was taken to moving things forward.
We should probably also be doing more in terms of research and development in the field of detection technologies.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on the following seven motions for resolutions tabled by: – José Ignacio Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra and Concepció Ferrer, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on Cuba (B5-0192/2004); – Cecilia Malmström and Bob van den Bos, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the situation in Cuba one year after the mass detention of dissidents (B5-0201/2004); – Alain Lipietz, Josu Ortuondo Larrea and Monica Frassoni, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the situation in Cuba one year after the mass detention of dissidents (B5-0204/2004); – Bastiaan Belder, on behalf of the EDD Group, on the situation in Cuba one year after the mass detention of dissidents (B5-0207/2004); – Ana Miranda de Lage, on behalf of the PSE Group, on Cuba (B5-0208/2004); – Luisa Morgantini, Pernille Frahm and Herman Schmid, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the situation in Cuba (B5-0212/2004); – Luís Queiró and José Ribeiro e Castro, on behalf of the UEN Group, on Cuba (B5-0214/2004). &#160;&#160; Mr President, it appears that today, at the request of the Cuban Government, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights is going to vote for a draft resolution on the situation of the prisoners in Guantánamo.
I would ask the following question: with what authority can the Castro Government demand explanations of the situation of these prisoners and demand measures to guarantee that their rights are respected, when Cuba still has 74 citizens imprisoned in inhuman conditions, hundreds of kilometres from their homes, for the sole crime of wishing to exercise their inalienable right to freedom of expression and thought?
It is true that Julio Antonio Valdés has been freed, and we are delighted about that.
But what we do not want is to allow ourselves to be deceived and forget that the other dissidents are still in prison and that this imprisonment and the conditions involved, which contravene all international conventions in the field, are a flagrant violation of fundamental rights.
Those arrested were tried very quickly: in a matter of weeks – or even days – in the course of trials not open to the public.
Faced with this situation, we urge the Cuban authorities to free these political prisoners and are anxious to remind them that freedom of expression is a fundamental right.
I am anxious to stress that Cuba has ratified a number of conventions in the area of human rights and I call on the Cuban authorities to respect their undertakings.
Cuba cannot, for all that, use the admittedly disastrous consequences of the embargo, which has lasted for more than 40 years, to claim that some of its nationals, described in particular as mercenaries in the service of foreign powers, have had their human rights systematically violated. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I am speaking personally and not on behalf of my group.
This phenomenon is a serious and pressing problem in Cuba too, and the Cuban Government is working hard on it.
As far as pull factors go, we almost immediately think of the force of attraction exerted by the rich West, in this case the United States.
As in Europe, they promise the chance to earn more money, sometimes a lot more, and claim that their victims will be grateful to them.
US President Lyndon Johnson approved the Cuban Adjustment Act in 1966.
The assumption has always been that life in the United States, even for people on the breadline, is much better than life in Cuba.
Compare this to the situation in the so-called Promised Land, the United States, where access to healthcare is far from universal, where affordable education is of low quality and where many prisons are privatised and outside democratic control.
The driving force behind this planned plebiscite is still Oswaldo Paya, winner of the Sakharov prize awarded by this House.
About half of these were obtained in the period following the wave of arrests in March 2003.
In this resolution, the European Parliament is clearly lending its support to Cubans longing for the achievement of a democratic, constitutional state.
This House expects the Council, the Member States of the Union and the Commission to have the same supportive attitude.
I sincerely hope that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will make good its intention to produce a full report on the situation in Cuba during the next session.
We owe it to the peace-loving people of this island which attracts so many European tourists. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am going to vote against the so-called compromise resolution, which my Socialist Group has not signed, because I believe it is unfair, biased and does not take account of the aggression and threat suffered by Cuba from the United Sates for almost 50 years.
What we do not have in the world is several dozen countries on which the United States is obsessively fixated as it is with Cuba.
In this area, both our agenda and the scandalous double standards of our positions are set by the United States, with the naïve or deliberate complicity of some of our fellow Members.
I would also contradict those who distort the truth, both in relation to the trials undergone by those prisoners and the conditions in which they are carrying out their sentences.
But that is happening in the part of the island occupied by the United States: in the base at Guantánamo.
On the subject of the human rights of Cuban citizens, I would point out that in the United States there are five Cuban prisoners who have been handed down horrendous sentences, in trials which are dubious in terms of legal security, all as a result of actions in defence of their people from attacks from terrorist groups based in Miami.
In this regard, we have called for the mobilisation of the Council and the Commission, today we reiterate our support and we call on Parliament to support the five people who the Cubans see as their heroes, and their families, several of whom have not been able to visit, not for months, not for years, Mr President. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my group has always defended the principles of respecting and protecting freedoms, human, social and national rights and rights to sovereignty and democratic development.
This development also includes fundamental aspects of daily life, such as education, culture, sport and health.
I regret that certain Members of this House are still expressing fury at the Cuban Government in such an irresponsible way and with so little objectivity, while refusing to condemn very serious situations in other parts of the world, resulting from the orders of Washington, that is to say, restrictions of freedoms, interference in the politics of other countries by the United States, as well as the prisoners in Guantánamo, about which you say nothing and whose subhuman situation you do not condemn.
It is highly regrettable that certain groups in this House continuously condemn the situation in Cuba in terms of political prisoners, opponents of the Cuban Government but, nevertheless, avoid debating the horrendous conditions of the five Cubans jailed in the United States, who are denied family visits and fair trials.
Our group has been condemning this in this House and nobody has spoken out on behalf of these prisoners.
My group considers human rights to be universal, and we defend freedom of expression, the recognition of family visits to prisoners and respect for the government of each country, without political interference from other countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to welcome the fact, on my own behalf and on behalf of my group, that four political groups were able to agree on a compromise resolution, one that is in favour of Cuba, not opposed to it; a resolution that is in favour of the Cuban people, and opposed to a tyrannical regime.
I should like to mention two dates, so that we can be absolutely clear as to what is at stake: on 1&#160;May, ten new Member States are to join this Parliament, our milieu, the house of democracy that we share.
Ten years ago, eight of these States were languishing under the tyranny of Communist dictatorships.
This is what we would like to see happen in Cuba.
We strove hard in 1974 and 1975 to be able to call ourselves a free and democratic country and not a ‘Cuba of Europe’.
What we would now like to see is Cuba become ‘the Portugal of the Caribbean’; we would like to see the carnations that brightened up Portugal do the same in Cuba; we would like to share the vibrancy, the colour and the warmth of Cuban culture, a culture we hold in high regard and which we would like to see smile and grow in freedom.
What I deplore here is the lack of solidarity, on the part of some Members of this House, with the terrible suffering in Cuba, with people sentenced one year ago to twenty or more years in prison for their beliefs.
As revealed recently in Parliament by the organisation, Cuba is currently the world’s largest prison for journalists.
Since March, twenty-seven journalists have been imprisoned, and three were already in prison.
Lastly, one or two words of support for campaigns to award the Nobel Peace Prize to Cuban democrats, such as Rivero Castañeda, a great writer and poet who is in prison, or Oswaldo Payá, to whom we awarded the Sakharov Prize in 2002.
We must not tire in our efforts and must never give up on promoting the Sakharov initiative until, as we have requested and as is his right, Oswaldo Payá is able to come here and speak to us. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Nielson, on the first anniversary of the mass imprisonments on political grounds, carried out by Castro, we Christian Democrats from Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Spain, Portugal, the Czech Republic and Slovakia made a joint appeal in a letter addressed to the UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan.
A total of 1&#160;456 years’ imprisonment was thus imposed upon these 75 constitutional activists.
It is therefore a matter of extreme urgency that we in the European Parliament make this statement today.
As Members of the European Parliament, we believe that the judgments must be overturned inasmuch as the trials in Cuba were clearly conducted without legal rights for the accused, who were sentenced on exclusively political grounds.
We ask for these 75 human rights activists to be released, and for them to be so without delay.
The majority of those advocating democracy belong to the Christian and Christian Democratic human rights movement, Movimento Cristiano Liberación.
However loud you attack socialist Cuba, my dear fellow Members, you cannot deny the fact that Cuba is the only free country on the American continent, the only country where the people take authority into their own hands.
For decades, this House has contended for freedom, human rights and the right of peoples to self-determination in Central and Eastern Europe.
On the contrary, we defend them.
I have to say, though, that it stands to reason that it is our duty as democrats to defend with all our might Cuba’s democracy movement, the rule of law there, and its freedom, against those who repress them, represented by the old-school Communist Fidel Castro, a man as lacking in understanding as you are, Mr Alyssandrakis, and, like you, forever yesterday’s man. &#160;&#160; .
The Commission shares Parliament's concern about the human rights situation in Cuba.
The European Union intends to continue to raise the cases of prisoners of conscience with the Cuban authorities and to exert the pressure we can for real democratic reform and respect for human rights in Cuba.
The recent declaration by the Council presidency, congratulating the Cuban journalist Raúl Rivero on the award of the Word Press Freedom Prize from Unesco, called again on the Cuban authorities to release all the imprisoned dissidents without delay.
The European Union considers dialogue with Havana important to promote political, economic and civil rights reforms.
The Commission supports Parliament's initiative to invite Oswaldo Payá.
Finally, despite Cuban decisions which impede our development cooperation activities, the Commission remains willing to provide aid to promote democracy and improve living standards for ordinary Cubans.
On the basis, therefore, of the serious violations of the rights of workers which we have noted, including of a great many women and children, in the production of sports clothing and footwear, we call on the European Commission to take initiatives and to demand that sport article industries and their world federations apply the rules of the International Labour Organisation.
The Commission also needs to cooperate with the International Olympic Committee in order to ensure that the International Olympic Committee includes respect for the internationally accepted rights of workers in the Olympic Charter and the Ethics Code.
We also call on the International Olympic Committee to demand that contracts concluded with sponsors and commercial companies include compliance with internationally recognised employment standards and fundamental rights.
In other words, all products which bear the logo of the International Olympic Committee must have been manufactured in accordance with the rules of the International Labour Organisation.
I should also like, Commissioner, to stress the importance of a campaign to raise awareness and inform Europeans in the run up to the 2004 Olympic Games. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in ancient times when the Olympic Games were being held in Greece, all wars stopped for the duration of the games.
Europe should use these ILO standards not only as a label demonstrating social acceptability and fair trade but also as an organisational principle that we regard as binding for imports and exports.
Of course, that is not yet possible but I hope that we can develop a strategy towards this end, so that in years to come when the Olympic Games take place we will be able to say that the rules for equitable world trade and production methods have been integrated into the world trade system itself.
We know that the production of sportswear and athletic footwear is organised through an elaborate international system of subcontractors.
Therefore, the European Parliament today expresses the view that the issue of working conditions for employees, especially in the developing world, must be addressed by the Commission and the International Olympic Committee.
Some leading sportswear manufacturers and socially responsible investment firms have also stated that the current ruthless business and labour practices in the global supply chain are unsustainable, lead to unfair competition and constitute an obstacle to sound enterprise.
I would therefore appeal to yourself, Commissioner Nielson, and to the Commission to add to all your very many other tasks that of taking such action in respect of the International Olympic Committee and the business and sports sector and its subcontractors as to ensure that they recognise the ILO’s international labour standards and such action as to ensure that these labour standards are incorporated into the International Olympic Committee’s regulations.
We should be showing them how best practice works even in the least developed countries; such incentive systems would, I believe, be the best way in which we could help promote economic activity in these countries.
It considers that more should be done to strengthen the social dimension of globalisation, and will contribute to the follow-up to the report recently presented by the World Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalisation established by the International Labour Organisation.
With regard to the Olympic Games, the European Commission financially supports the implementation of the Charter of Intent adopted by the Organising Committee for the Winter Olympic Games in Turin in 2006.
This initiative could also be very relevant for the 2004 Summer Olympic Games.
The European Commission also contributes to the promotion of corporate social responsibility, workers' rights and decent work in the sports goods industry.
A similar approach covering all core labour standards could be developed for the upcoming Olympic Games with relevant partners such as the global trade unions, broader civil society, the International Olympic Committee, the World Federation of Sporting Goods Industry, the different brands and companies and the ILO.
This is what the Commission can provide in response to the concerns raised.
They represent just another case in which we could discuss corporate social responsibility.
The real problem is so huge that we must dig deep into our resources to continue the broader general struggle of ensuring decency triumphs in a world capable of producing child labour, etc. – with or without the Olympic Games. &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
It is also a member of the ACP and the Commonwealth.
Sadly, Nigeria is a country divided by ethnic and religious differences and every effort must be made by the government to build solidarity and social cohesion nationally.
The introduction of Sharia law since 1999 has been particularly divisive and we have witnessed the imposition – although not yet carried out – of lapidation, or stoning to death sentences on women convicted of the so-called crime of adultery.
After all, the 1999 Nigerian Constitution guarantees total freedom of belief, and the country has signed international convenants on human rights.
But since then thousands of people have died in ethnic conflicts and all manner of violent clashes.
We were also in Kano, in the north, where a wonderful Islamic culture is flourishing and had the opportunity to compare this culture with that of other regions in the south.
I believe that we must take Nigeria seriously in the context of the ACP and that we must closely monitor what is happening in this large country, because it is a kind of Africa in miniature.
These dreadful things are happening in central and northern Nigeria.
Not all of them are Nigerian, some are Islamic mercenaries from Chad and Niger.
I call on the Council and the Commission to monitor this situation closely and to press the Nigerian authorities to take effective action. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ethnic and religious violence in Nigeria has concerned our Parliament on countless occasions.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, which I have the honour of chairing, has repeatedly intervened and denounced the revival of religious hatred in Nigeria, especially against women, with the application of Islamic 'Sharia' law, which even makes provision for sentencing by stoning for adultery, over and above the laws and Constitution of Nigeria and also over and above the Cotonou Agreement and the clauses about respecting human rights and women's rights.
Recent violence by fundamentalists and the outbreak of religious violence in the state of Plateau, which has cost 1 500 people their lives and destroyed 173 churches, is the culmination of a series of bloody events in which Islamic extremists are the protagonists.
In my opinion, the European Commission should exploit its powers and international standing to contribute more actively towards strengthening security, putting an end to the violence and promoting respect for religious tolerance and basic human rights in Nigeria.
In other words, we need closer cooperation and pressure on the Nigerian Government and President Obasanjo so that the Constitution and laws are applied in the country. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Nigeria, the largest African country with 120 million inhabitants, seems to be under permanent threat of implosion.
It is a conflict that has already killed more than 100 people in the region since February.
In order to react to the Islamic threat, governors of the South, where animists and Christians are in the majority, have created a forum for the Southern states.
As we know, most of the states in West Africa are artificial creations drawn on the map by the colonial powers, so that peoples in the South are divided, two examples being the Ibo and the Ewe, who are Christians and animists and live on both sides of the border.
The same can be said of the peoples of the North, the Hausa and Fulbe, most of whom are Muslims and also live in a variety of states.
It is in Plateau that these ethnic groups collide, and the situation is made even more acute by economic inequalities and migratory flows.
It also has to be borne in mind that Nigeria is a multi-ethnic state, one of the most populous countries in the world and probably the most populous in Africa, and that there are massive oil interests at stake there, so it really does call for extremely sensitive handling and subtle thinking.
There is no Christian fundamentalism in Nigeria.
If we are to address this situation, we need sound knowledge of these countries’ history and ethnic make-up; only then will we be able to support the peace process and prevent Nigeria from disintegrating in a bloody war compared with which the carnage in the former Yugoslavia will seem trivial.
It is repeated elsewhere, in Sudan, for example, although this has not been sufficiently publicised in view of public attention on Iraq, where events are all the more unforgivable since they are occurring with the complicity of armed forces from the European Union.
The real issue at the heart of the situation in Nigeria is Islamic fanaticism.
This is more of an issue than the existence in the country of people of various ethnic backgrounds and beliefs, which is the case in most corners of the globe and is the result of the way in which history has unfolded.
This problem must be combated, and we must not continue to play it down for the sake of short-term commercial interest or our oil-based diplomacy.
The violence is often related to conflicts over access to resources or triggered by political tensions.
The problem with understanding Nigeria is that there are several layers of problems, and each layer is normally enough to create a conflict.
His reference to Yugoslavia is also very important because there we have assisted in a so-called solution which is contrary to what we, for very good reasons, find necessary for Africa, namely to avoid changing the geography.
The Commission has also adapted its cooperation programme to reflect that situation.
Support for human rights in Nigeria is a significant component of our cooperation strategy for the country.
Nigeria was also selected as a focal country for the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights to respond to precisely the sort of concerns raised by Parliament.
Three projects were approved last year, including one with a Nigerian NGO working in Plateau State and Kaduna State to promote peace between Muslims and Christians.
As I have already said, other conflicts relating to religious differences are very important and we should be careful not to overlook or marginalise these other aspects.
At federal level the Commission is working with Member States to strengthen political dialogue with Nigeria.
Here in this House, I have always obeyed the rules as they were in force at the time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a personal reference has been made to me, I am glad to have been given the opportunity to reply to it, so that it is not only others who can bandy statements about in this House.
It has been fully debated in recent days and the President of Parliament has made several eloquent statements in relation to it.
I should like to highlight the fact that poverty and unemployment, combined with a strong patriarchal tradition, are the main causes of prostitution, trafficking in women and violence against women.
Accordingly, the governments of South-East Europe, in the light of increasing religious fundamentalism and the return to patriarchal societies, must guarantee fundamental freedoms and respect for human rights and freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
They must also ensure that tradition does not impinge upon personal autonomy or violate women's rights and the principle of gender equality.
I am concerned to note that, in most countries in South-East Europe, the rate of women’s participation in political life is currently below 20%, which, in comparison with other parts of Europe represents the highest level of exclusion of women from... &#160;&#160; .
I feel that the European Union must redouble its efforts to raise the level of development in these countries, and not to focus all its attention on the situation in one group only, whichever that may be.
We are particularly concerned to note the existence of vast mined areas, which claim thousands of victims – mostly children – and which prevent people from returning to their homes, from cultivating their land and from starting their lives afresh following military conflict.
We must mobilise, as swiftly and effectively as possible, the resources required to clear mined areas, to help with the social and economic rehabilitation of victims and to destroy stockpiles of anti-personnel mines.
