Some time ago all of the Members elected from Slovakia urged the Council to refrain from postponing the Schengen area enlargement date until 17 December 2008, which we found unacceptable.
I welcome the fact that the implementation of technical assistance, as well as the SIS, SIS II and SISone4ALL, will proceed on time; and that the European Parliament has gone to great lengths to ensure agreement during the first reading, thus avoiding risk of Parliament causing any delays in the implementation of SIS II.
in writing. (SK) The free movement of persons in the Schengen area is a visible and practical exercise of the basic rights guaranteed under the European Community Treaty.
In 2004 the European Commission announced that, due to technical delays, it had to propose a new timetable envisaging an operational SIS II as of 17 December 2008.
Even though it has not proved possible to launch the new SIS II according to plan, the provisional integration of the new Member States into the current system, SISone4ALL, will provide adequate time to accomplish the SIS II.
The fundamental criticism of the Schengen system continues to be highly valid when it comes, for example, to personal privacy and the ability of refugees to claim asylum.
I do, on the other hand, of course recognise the right of individual Member States to join the system if the countries in question are anxious so to do.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my esteemed colleague, Mr Böge of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund, with a sum of around EUR 24 million being granted to our Hungarian and Greek friends, following the floods suffered by these Member States and their populations in March and April 2006.
Given the deadlock in the Council on reviewing the Solidarity Fund, the mobilisation of the Fund to help the victims of natural disasters in Greece and Hungary in 2006 is an opportunity to reiterate the need to ensure that regional disasters remain eligible for the Fund, and to adapt it so that it corresponds most effectively to what the victims of this type of disaster need.
The purpose of Draft amending budget No 2/2007 is to mobilise the Solidarity Fund, with a view to granting financial assistance to Hungary and Greece to help repair the damage caused by the floods of March and April 2006 in those countries.
The overall amount of Community financial aid for these disasters is some EUR 24.4 million to a loss totalling almost EUR 900 - EUR 520 million in the case of Hungary and EUR 372 in the case of Greece.
The current Solidarity Fund therefore needs to be reassessed in order to adapt eligibility criteria so that the Fund corresponds better to the needs of disaster victims. (SK) Yes, Mr President, I have voted in favour of the European Parliament Regulation on the addition of vitamins and minerals and certain other substances to foods, which lays down the procedures for exercising the executive powers transferred to the Commission, and I support the Council decision of 17 July 2006 in the matter of commitology, which can be summarised as 'regulatory procedure with scrutiny'.
The European Parliament has adopted a text enabling the transfer to the Commission of the power to take quasi-legislative measures where necessary, the measures in question being those provided for in Article 2 of Decision No. 468/1999, as amended by Decision No. 512/2006, which lays down the procedures for exercising the executive powers that have been transferred to the Commission.
in writing. - (EL) Following the vote in favour of the Prüm Treaty, the follow-up version of the Schengen Treaty, the SIS II information system and the decision on the uncontrolled and unimpeded collection and exchange of personal data, including on political, ideological, philosophical and religious beliefs, the European Parliament has now approved the Visa Information System (VIS).
The EU aims for the VIS to be the biggest biometric database in the world.
The Prüm Treaty was signed, outside the EU's legal framework, on 27 May 2005, by seven Member States, with the aim, as they put it, of 'cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime'.
However, what we now know for certain is that the attacks of 11 September and those of 11 March in Madrid were planned, at least in part, on EU soil.
in writing. - (EL) The European Parliament today gave the go-ahead for the integration of the most basic provisions of the Prüm Treaty, known as Schengen III, into the so-called acquis communautaire and into the national legislation of the Member States under a simplified procedure, in other words without the signing and ratification procedures required under international treaties.
These provisions oblige the Member States to create DNA files and permit the collection, processing and automated exchange of DNA data, fingerprints and other records and information by the repressive mechanisms, including on persons who they suspect will commit a criminal offence or jeopardise public order and security.
The peoples must condemn this Treaty, which is dangerous to individual rights and democratic freedoms and step up their fight against the stepping-up of autocratic measures and the anti-democratic and anti-grassroots policy of the EU in general.
A new global legal framework on data protection under the third pillar comparable to the rules in force in Community law is a vital factor in guaranteeing the same level of protection.
I therefore welcome the fact that a political agreement has finally been reached, and I wish to pay tribute to the rapporteur Mrs Roure for her outstanding contribution to achieving this outcome.
I also endorse the 15 general principles presented by Mr Frattini, which reflect the thrust of the acquis in the area of personal data protection processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. - (EL) The Greek Communist Party voted against the report because, despite the individual improvements that it proposes to the new version of the Council's framework-decision, it fundamentally adopts in its entirety its basic philosophy, which is the unrestricted and - in practice - uncontrollable facility for the repressive mechanisms of the EU and the prosecuting authorities both in its Member States and in third countries (such as the USA) and even private individuals to collect, process and exchange between each other all the personal data of every citizen of the EU, including data relating to their political and trade union action and ideological, philosophical and religious beliefs.
The addition of 15 guidelines for the protection of personal data is nothing more than a wish-list and exposé of ideas, without any possibility of imposing compliance with them in practice by the repressive mechanisms.
The rules on data protection used for judicial and police cooperation must be drawn up in such a way as to strengthen the principle of mutual trust between the authorities involved, enabling more effective European cooperation and the highest possible protection for the citizens when it comes to the use of this data.
The objective should be to fish less when according to scientific research and to fishermen themselves, stocks are in need of recovery if fishing is to take place - perhaps on a bigger scale - in the future.
We must bear in mind, however, that these recovery plans, whereby fishing is restricted, have a serious economic and social impact that must be weighed up and taken into account.
In other words the common fisheries policy must take on its responsibilities.
Our vote against Amendments 20, 21 and 22 was based on our view that decisions on total allowable catches and quotas should not be automatically linked to the opinions of the Council for the Exploration of the Sea.
The plan to prepare a report on the social and economic impact of implementation of the proposed regulation on the sector deserves our support too.
However, we have a problem with two amendments, 11 and 111, which were voted through together.
We welcome the Commission's proposal to remove this exclusion and to change this anomaly, and we hope that the Commission's proposal is ratified by the Council, not the one as amended here this morning. (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the Salinas García report on market reforms in the fruit and vegetable sector.
Neither I nor the other MEPs from the Czech Civil Democratic Party (ODS) support this approach and we have accordingly voted against the report.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the bulk of the report by my fellow Member, Mrs Salinas García, on the proposal for a Council regulation laying down specific rules as regards the fruit and vegetable sector.
In Portugal, the industrial tomato sector is under threat.
It is a sector in which there has been a great deal of investment, one that has developed, that has produced quantity and quality, and one in which the overwhelming majority of production provides work for many small and medium-sized farmers, family farming and many workers linked directly or indirectly to the agri-food industry.
If the Commission's proposal were to go through, thousands of jobs in agriculture and industry would be put in jeopardy, even if in the short term there is still a payment to farmers and a transitional period.
in writing. (SV) The proposed addition to the Commission's proposal put forward by Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is beneath contempt.
We have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. (SV) This report sets right, to a certain extent, the market in fruit and vegetables, which is brim-full of excessively detailed regulation, and phases out export refunds for this sector.
I am not, therefore, voting against the report, but the improvements to it are not great enough for me to vote in favour of it, so I am abstaining.
We trust that the attempt to draft a new treaty based on the draft Constitution for Europe, which has been pushed through so forcibly by certain Members of this House, will end in failure. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to the previous speaker, the Pensioners' Party is highly in favour of the existence of a Europe that is also political and that heralds benefits for citizens, in particular for citizens who want a future, because they are working now, and for citizens who want a present, because they are now retired and have the right to a better life than that experienced by the elderly and retired in the past.
in writing. (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats voted in favour of this report, which is basically a sound one.
Point 12 highlights issues such as Social Europe and the struggle against climate change that are important to Europeans.
We voted in favour of CA28 as the language is more reflective of the reality than that of the PSE amendment regarding ratification in France and the Netherlands. (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 163(1) of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (FR) I abstained during the final vote on the Barón-Brok report on the roadmap for the Union's constitutional process.
Indeed, the rejection of the European Constitutional Treaty by two Member States in fact nullifies the proposal submitted for ratification by the Member States in 2005.
However, we thought that it was inappropriate to single out some - but not other - elements contained in the Constitutional Treaty as being essential, as the new treaty will only see the light of day if it is acceptable to all 27 member states.
We are in favour of a more democratic, fairer Europe that is characterised by solidarity, a Europe that promotes peace and cooperation with people from all parts of the world, a Europe that complies with the principle of sovereign States with equal rights.
in writing. (SV) The federalist majority in the European Parliament are not ideologically representative of their electorates as far as matters pertaining to the EU Constitution are concerned.
We have therefore voted against the report submitted by Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
One only has to read point 6 to justify rejecting the Resolution.
The German Presidency moves full steam ahead, claiming it has a 'mandate' to 'preserve' the content and 'substance' of the so-called 'European Constitution' in the 'new' draft Treaty to be presented by December 2007 (!) and ratified by 2009.
In a word, unacceptable.
We think it sensible, however, so to coordinate the ratification process that, irrespective of the forms it might take in individual Member States, it is conducted in such a way that it will be possible formally to complete it in all the countries simultaneously, as indicated in paragraph 20 of the report.
in writing. - (FR) I believe that the majority of the European Parliament has not sought to respond to the message sent out by the EU populations that rejected the Constitutional Treaty.
I voted against paragraph 20 (original text) in the above-mentioned report as I believe that the proposal to hold a ratification process simultaneously across all EU Member States is impractical.
in writing. - (EL) The report endeavours to resuscitate the European Constitution.
The European plutocracy, the imperialists and their servants need a European Constitution, in order to shield their power, in order to safeguard the capitalist system, in order to strike at the rights of the working class and the peoples of Europe, in order to repress the grassroots movements and in order to step up their aggressive policy of intervention and war.
As reiterated in the Berlin Declaration on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Rome, we must build the EU on a renewed joint foundation and we must do so before the 2009 elections for the European Parliament.
I still believe that the institutional architecture needs to be adjusted to accommodate the reality of 'Europe' enlarged to 27 and as such I feel that the best solution is the maximalist solution to overcoming the difficulties arising from this new set of circumstances - if only to ensure that the solution reached is a stable one - but a minimalist solution to introducing amendments that, no matter how much the authors of the proposed Treaty would like, were rejected.
in writing. (SV) I abstained in the vote on the roadmap for the draft Constitutional Treaty in respect of an amendment stating that all countries 'shall' hold referendums.
Paragraph 5 is an ambiguous reference to the Member States that have not put the text to ratification yet.
The European Council should convene an intergovernmental conference as soon as possible and reach a compromise before the end of 2007, so that decisions on the ratification process can be taken by the end of 2008.
This would allow the incoming Parliament elected in 2009 to operate within the framework of the new Constitutional Treaty.
I actually voted in favour of this report as a European, as a Finn and as a member of the Finnish Centre Party, Keskusta, which also represents the Finnish cultural movement.
European standards must be applied with a view to having a dynamic and innovative European cultural policy in all branches of the arts, enabling us to offer artists the social guarantees enjoyed by all other European workers.
We therefore feel it is crucial to take account of the activities of those working in creative arts and to improve their social status.
We have therefore voted against this report.
The register would make it possible to transfer pension entitlements and social benefits acquired by artists in third countries when they returned to their country of origin.
The challenge facing European cultural policy is the creation of a dynamic cultural environment that is creative and innovative with respect to all types of art.
in writing. (CS) I shall be voting in favour of the adoption of the report on the social status of artists.
I feel that this will be a step towards resolving this problem, albeit one that merely scratches the surface and that will require further work.
They have also authorised a European Parliament ad hoc delegation, which will participate next week in the fifth Human Rights Council plenary session - a session, which is particularly important for the future of this organisation.
The first concerns the plan to earmark EUR 10 300 000 in 2008 for 'an awareness campaign in view of the 2009 European elections' and EUR 900 000 for implementation of the Parliamentary Television Channel.
It is by working constructively, notably in our own countries between elections, that we are best at providing information at local level.
