It was never intended to shield that from parliamentary scrutiny, and I think it is high time that we enter into talks with the Council to reconsider that agreement. (FR) Mr President, I abstained from the vote on the 2007 discharge of the European Parliament's budget because of some paragraphs in this report that are inspired by the disinformation and untruths published in the media, especially here, relating to the Members' voluntary pension fund.
Moreover, he gladly participates in the vote on credits from our budget that are used to finance his allowances, although it has just become known, as required for the sake of transparency, that, for example, he has only once in five years set foot in a meeting of a committee of which he is a member.
This step will help ensure clarity and reduce bureaucracy. (ET) Next is Silvia-Adriana Ţicău's report, which I also supported, because it also makes it possible to ensure even more uniform implementation of the new regulation on road transport.
I believe that in the framework of the integration of the common European market, we should in coming years also abolish restrictions on access to the internal markets of Member States. (ET) Mrs Ţicău's second report, on the energy efficiency of buildings, earned my support, because it will help realise the challenges that Europe faces in the area of energy supply and energy demand.
This means that it will help save 20% of energy consumption through increased energy efficiency.
Since this piece of legislation concerns both transport operators and passengers, and provides for many new obligations for transport operators, it is reasonable that a slightly longer period of implementation be granted to service providers in order to achieve a better result. (ET) Mrs Jensen's report on intelligent transport systems - their implementation has proved their effectiveness, making transport more efficient, safer and more secure, as well as helping to achieve the political objective of making transport cleaner.
I also supported the report because I agreed with the rapporteur that this piece of legislation must be prepared in such a manner that in the future the railway network becomes efficient for all users. (ET) This morning we also discussed and just voted on certain reports from the health care package.
This is the last opportunity to deal with and pass this directive. (ET) Mr Trakatellis's report on rare diseases is like an addition to the report on patients' rights, which I supported, although I did not support recommendation 15 in that report, because that recommendation belongs in the last century, and politics should not influence genetic research. (ET) The report concerning urban traffic and the action plan in that area earned my vote, because urban transport plays a very important role in EU freight and passenger transport.
If patients are given information about the recovery rates for different diseases in a number of different countries, and they are given the choice, then they are able to choose in which country they would recover best.
I voted against the report, which has not been properly considered but which should effect the price paid by consumers for music over the next 45 years.
Innovation in the transport area must be encouraged, in particular where it can improve vehicle safety.
This directive should allow us to contribute to a reduction in the number of deaths on European roads, by reducing both the risk of collision and the seriousness of any accidents.
The European Commission did not start freezing this money until 2008.
We lost a great deal of money in 2007 and now have to contend with control systems which are barely even there or control systems which only function intermittently.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (DE) The European Parliament voted today on Mr Casaca's report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Parliament for the 2007 budgetary year.
The report also addressed the question of the pension fund of the European Parliament.
The Free Democratic Party in the European Parliament voted against discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Parliament's budget.
in writing. - British Conservatives have been unable to approve discharge of the 2007 European budget, section I, European Parliament.
in writing. - Today, the Green Group voted in favour of the Casaca report on EP discharge 2007.
It should be made clear that, in so far as Parliament has to guarantee the pension rights of its Members, it should also have full control of the fund and its investment policies.
in writing. - I abstained as I am a member of the Pension Fund.
in writing. - We have voted against the Casaca report on the 2007 Discharge of the European Parliament for of three reasons.
We do support paragraphs 105 and 109 of the Casaca report, which remedy some objections we have concerning the voluntary pension fund of the MEPs, but because the Casaca report does not change the existing situation, we have voted against giving the discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Parliament's budget for the financial year 2007.
in writing. - We voted against the Casaca report on the 2007 Discharge of the European Parliament for three reasons.
Secondly, we are against the situation that taxpayers' money can be given to a private pension fund where the list of participants and beneficiaries is kept secret and is not published.
We support paragraphs 105 and 109 of the Casaca report, which remedy some objections we have concerning the voluntary pension fund for MEPs, but because the Casaca report does not change the existing situation, we have voted against giving discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Parliament's budget for the financial year 2007.
It would be irresponsible if we, especially in these times, were to make up the deficit in the pension fund with tax money.
The discharge relates to 2007, but we cannot wait a year to express our criticism of a decision made in 2008 concerning extra payments to the pension fund.
in writing. - (SV) I abstained from the vote, as I left the voluntary pension fund on 21 April 2009 and therefore did not want to affect the result of the vote.
in writing. - I voted against the Casaca report on the 2007 Discharge of the European Parliament for three reasons.
Secondly, I am against the situation that taxpayers' money can be given to a private pension fund where the list of participants and beneficiaries is kept secret and is not published.
I do support paragraphs 105 and 109 of the Casaca report, which remedy some objections I have concerning the voluntary pension fund of the MEPs, but, because the Casaca report does not change the existing situation, I voted against giving the discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Parliament's budget for the financial year 2007.
in writing. - I oppose the compromise reached between the rapporteur and the Council on the rules for access to the international road haulage market.
We believe that creating new frontiers and new restrictions on cabotage in the transport sector is not the solution to the problems the road transport sector is facing as a result of the economic crisis.
However, I strongly support a very strict approach concerning access to the occupation of road transport operator.
in writing. - I accept the need to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, and I am persuaded that the EU can play a positive role in this respect.
In fact, I think this report does not attach enough importance to the energy efficiency of buildings in the wider context of addressing environmental concerns such as climate change.
Making buildings more energy efficient is relatively simple, relatively low cost and relatively beneficial.
However, the European Commission has consistently sidelined energy efficiency as a flagship policy in favour of hammering the motor industry.
I voted in favour of Mrs Ţicău's report as I believe that improving the energy performance of buildings is vital for protecting the environment, as well as for reducing the energy losses sustained by consumers.
The EU and Member States must earmark the necessary financial resources for this purpose.
They must create by 2014 an Energy Efficiency Fund financed by the Community budget, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and Member States with a view to promoting public and private investments in projects aimed at improving energy efficiency in buildings, applying reductions in Value Added Tax (VAT) for goods and services relating to energy efficiency and renewable energy, and extending the eligibility criteria for financing from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) the improvement in the energy performance of buildings, not only residential.
in writing. - I welcome the initiative to ensure the effectiveness of energy performance of buildings.
in writing. - We are completely in favour of more stringent rules regarding financial activities and credit rating agencies.
However, we chose to vote against the report by Mr Gauzès today.
This question was not raised in the report in a satisfactory manner.
The regulatory framework that we are establishing today should be able to improve the conditions in which these ratings are prepared, provided they are used in a supervisory framework for regulated activities.
in writing. - (SV) The situation in the world economy is still turbulent, and, as recently as yesterday, the International Monetary Fund announced that the financial crisis may well get even worse yet.
Since this House is seeking solutions within the framework of EU cooperation, I have chosen to vote against the report.
in writing. - I am completely in favour of more stringent rules regarding financial activities and credit rating agencies.
This question was not raised in the report in a satisfactory manner.
in writing. - While the credit rating agencies have to accept some degree of blame for the failures in the securitisation of sub-prime mortgages which led to the financial crisis, it is with some regret that the UK Conservative delegation has voted to accept the plans to regulate the CRAs drawn up in the Gauzès report.
in writing. - (SV) I did not participate in this vote on account of my special connections with the credit rating industry.
in writing. - The G20 recommendations to the Working Group on Financial Services clearly call for greater transparency and regulation of credit rating agencies.
This report, which was a response from the European Parliament to the G20, is the right balance.
in writing. - (IT) Thank you, Mr President.
in writing. - The European Union has created a successful internal market with unprecedented movement of capital, services and people.
However, creating this freedom of movement is not enough in itself.
I am happy that in this passenger rights package, covering sea, inland waterway and coach and bus transport, the European Parliament has produced legislation that is fair and balanced and that will prove to be extremely effective in protecting and promoting the rights of passengers in the EU.
in writing. - Conservatives welcome the overall aim of improving passenger rights, access for the disabled and creating a level playing field for international bus users, and for this reason voted in favour of the report.
In France, the Fédération nationale des transporteurs de voyageurs has proposed pragmatic solutions to all these problems.
Mr Albertini's report aims to help create the conditions for a clearer framework on the use and operation of bus and coach transport.
I feel that extending the term of protection from 50 to 70 years will encourage investment in musical innovation and result in greater choice for consumers, allowing Europe to remain competitive with the world's major music markets.
in writing. - It is not fair that composers of songs or the designer who does the artwork for the CD get protection of their rights for their life plus 70 years, while the performer currently only has 50 years from publication.
in writing. - (NL) The Dutch Labour Party (Socialist Group in the European Parliament) supports the amended proposal because it contains a significant number of positive elements for artists, such as protection for the integrity of the artist and the fund for session musicians.
We therefore hope that the Commission will soon come up with proposals to improve the position of artists vis-à-vis record companies, including with regard to contracts relating to the first 50 years of associated rights.
in writing. - Although I strongly support the idea of copyright extension, this proposal has become unfit for purpose.
It is hoped that the new Marco Polo programme will benefit from improved financial conditions in order to pursue the targets set, which will now also include projects involving motorways of the sea as well as projects involving measures to reduce traffic congestion.
I believe that this programme, which seeks to encourage and support projects shifting road freight transport to the sea, rail and inland waterways, must be fully able to help reduce congestion and pollution and ensure efficient and more environmentally-sustainable transport.
in writing. - (DE) The report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism does not take sufficient account of the real interest of rail transport as a whole in better use being made of the capacity available.
All our attention is focused on two other reasons.
One is that coordination between railway companies in the various Member States is insufficient, as a result of which freight wagons must wait for unnecessarily long periods before they are linked up to a locomotive that will move them further along.
The creation of a true internal rail market is hugely important to the objectives of the European policy on sustainable transport, or, in other words, to the future of Europe and its transport.
It is also important in terms of allowing this sector to become an integral part of the measures which will help to ensure that the Lisbon Strategy is a success.
Rail freight is also a very important factor in the various areas of operation of transport.
in writing. - I congratulate the rapporteur and the European Commission for their courage in trying to prioritise rail freight throughout the EU.
in writing. - I applaud the work of my colleague John Bowis on this dossier, which represents a landmark in patients' rights.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against the report on cross-border health services as it meets neither the EU objective on a high level of health, in accordance with Article 152 of the Treaty, nor the demand of European citizens to be able to enjoy safe, quality healthcare, close to home.
This directive only reinforces health inequalities between Europe's citizens, as only those who can pay health costs in advance will be able to choose quality services.
As a result, patients' rights in cross-border healthcare do not safeguard the exclusive competence of Member States with regard to deciding how to organise and finance their healthcare systems.
The right of citizens to health, and also the rights of those working in the sector, are not guaranteed.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the directive on patient rights in cross-border healthcare, because it provides patients with greater legal security.
However, the sovereignty of the Member States must be retained.
However, I would insist that the Member States have sole competence to organise and fund health systems.
The final text must strike a fair balance between patients' rights and the Member States' national competences in the health sector.
in writing. - On behalf of the British Labour delegation in the European Parliament I welcome many of the positive aspects of the Parliament's report on the proposal for a directive on cross-border healthcare.
The Labour delegation therefore calls for the directive to make it clear that Member States can establish a system of prior authorisation.
The Labour delegation abstained on the final vote to indicate that these two concerns need to be addressed at second reading.
in writing. - I abstained on this report because it does not give enough of a guarantee on the protection of the integrity and funding of Britain's National Health Service, nor will it provide certainty or clarity for the minority of patients who can afford to travel to take up healthcare in another EU Member State.
In a recent debate on cross-border health payments between Britain and Ireland, the Tory shadow health minister Andrew Lansley said that NHS resources are always precious and attacked the payment of GBP 180 million of NHS money to Ireland.
However, the Tories have failed to back our proposal for a clear prior authorisation system, which is crucial to protect precious NHS resources and NHS services.
in writing. - (EL) I voted against the Bowis report and the Commission proposal, because their very legal basis proves that financial interests and an uncontrolled market take precedence over patients' rights to better and more complete healthcare.
in writing. - I abstained on this report because I desperately want people to receive the treatment they urgently need.
Nevertheless, I was unable to support the final report because two points relating to the competence of Member States to organise and finance their healthcare system were not included.
I voted for the proposal on patient safety.
I voted for the report on rare diseases, because I feel that concerted action in the field of rare diseases at the European Union level and at the national level is an absolute necessity.
in writing. - There are many issues in this resolution which I support.
in writing. - British Conservatives have been unable to approve discharge of the 2007 European budget, section III, European Commission.
The ECA report for the 2007 financial year still refers exclusively to the projects from 2000-2006 as 2007 was, for the most part, a preparatory phase for implementing the 2007-2013 programmes.
in writing. - (NL) The Dutch People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) has voted against the granting of discharge to the European Commission.
Mr President, I voted for the Commission's discharge in connection with the implementation of the EU budget for 2007.
in writing. - I voted to support the 2007 discharge for the European Commission, but I did so with some reservations.
The PD-L (Romanian Liberal Democrat Party) contingent in the PPE-DE Group voted against the report on the discharge for implementation of the European Union general budget for the financial year 2007, which makes reference to the management of European funds by Romania and Bulgaria.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against the granting of discharge because the Committee of the Regions in its current form cannot be taken seriously by anyone.
in writing. - British Conservatives are opposed to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against the granting of discharge, given that the European Fundamental Rights Agency is a superfluous institution, which, moreover, is hostile to the right of freedom of expression.
There are five points on which we will need to focus our attention: 1) protecting the rights and duties of passengers; 2) enhancing road safety; 3) encouraging safety; 4) limiting road transport in order to stop congestion of land transport.
