President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Council fully acknowledges the vital importance of taking appropriate measures with a view to improving the situation of the Roma and of promoting their fundamental rights, as this House requested in its resolution of 31 January.
As you know, real progress has been made under the French Presidency in the areas of non-discrimination and inclusion and, in this context, it has been possible to take account of the situation of the Roma, not least within the package on the Social Agenda, as it was presented by Commissioner Špidla on 2 July.
I also wished to say this on the occasion of this debate.
The first European summit on the Roma was held on 16 September.
The draft conclusions call on the Commission and the Member States to take account of the situation of the Roma in the design and implementation of policies on the protection of fundamental rights, in the policy on combating poverty and discrimination, in policies on gender equality and in those on access to education, housing, health care, jobs, the law and culture.
In these draft conclusions we call for the Commission and the Member States to identify tangible actions for 2009 and 2010.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first European summit on the Roma, which took place in Brussels on 16 September, was of fundamental importance for the partnership between the main actors in this area.
It involved the participation of more than 500 senior representatives of EU bodies, Member States and non-governmental organisations and it was a reflection of our renewed determination to increase efforts to confront the social exclusion of Roma.
Apart from this, the Commission is looking forward to the meeting of the Council for General Affairs on 8 December, at which proposals will be debated in respect of the conclusions on Roma integration.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over the past year, significant progress has been made in gaining recognition at European level for the fact that the integration of the 10 million Roma living in destitution within the Member States, and the full realisation of their rights, is in the interest of all European societies.
The inclusion of a EUR 5 million pilot project in the 2009 budget guarantees that we can talk about this issue, but the process must not stop there.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, in recent times, the European Parliament has emphatically spoken out in favour of developing a long-term strategy for the integration of the Roma in Europe.
Over the past year, it has become clear that more needs to be done in this area, primarily by the Member States, but also by the European Union.
Mr President, on 31 January, in this very Chamber, we adopted with a large majority the Parliament's resolution clearly requesting the European Commission to create an EU Roma strategy.
Mr President, I am holding in my hand a letter from Vice-President Barrot dated 6 November, in which he assures me and four of my fellow Members that - and I quote - 'regarding the EU Roma strategy we can be sure that he will work closely with Commissioner Špidla to see that it meets the expectations of Roma non-governmental organisations'.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with the approach adopted by the Commission with regard to Roma.
I understand the pragmatic approach free of any political and ideological implications, an approach - as President Barroso said at the summit held in Brussels on 16 September - which needs all leaders to be involved, without exclusion, from the Roma community to the public authorities, headed by the European Commission.
As for me, I would argue in favour of a very respectful and humane, but at the same time unambiguous, approach.
Let us combine our tasks, and the topic will be before Parliament again in February. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, as the shadow rapporteur of the Committee for Employment and Social Affairs I would like to express my enormous appreciation for the work of both the Commission and the rapporteur in seeking so diligently for a positive solution to the problem of one of the minorities within the European Union.
The debate showed, I am afraid, that the words of Commissioner Špidla were either poorly translated or poorly understood by either Mrs Mohácsi or Mr Cohn-Bendit.
Without such a European Roma policy, there can be no national Roma policy either. (SK) The European Union has an obligation to adopt a strategy on Roma, although the Member States should also be more active in this area.
It is as if we have 'ethnicised' the social problems of the Roma and treated these as problems solely belonging to a separate ethnic group.
In Bulgaria we have a large number of problems which we associate with the Roma and this has driven us to introduce steps for the preparation of a framework programme to resolve the social preconditions causing their ethnic discrimination.
I have listened to both Mr Jouyet and the Commissioner.
I am chairing this sitting, not Mr Cohn-Bendit.
We must not fall prey to naïve optimism: we need to take determined, ongoing action, and I would say to you, Mr Severin, that the fact that the work of the Council in this area was initiated by Romania is also a good sign and that the fact that the Council has taken up this issue at the behest of your countrymen is extremely important.
I am not sure if we need to follow up on what has been said, and on what basis we can do so, regarding the problem of minorities.
The fact that the Roma question is being taken up by the European Union and that this will now be a regular issue at the highest levels also marks a change.
