Amendment of Regulation (EC) No 717/2007 (mobile telephone networks) and Directive 2002/21/EC (electronic communications) (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Vălean, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 717/2007 on roaming on public mobile telephone networks within the Community and Directive 2002/21/EC on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services - C6-0333/2008 -.
All these European citizens have paid and are still frequently paying three or four times more to use a mobile phone, simply because they are a couple of miles away from their own country, even though they are within the Community's borders.
When consumers come to choose a mobile phone operator, they look first and foremost at national charges or the price offered for a new mobile phone make, but scrutinise less the roaming charges.
We have reduced the maximum gross roaming tariffs for transferring data to 50 cents per megabyte in order to encourage the use of this service and proper competition in the sector.
We have also made the provisions intended to limit monthly bills for roaming data transfer to EUR 50 significantly more flexible for anyone wanting this feature.
There are roughly 150 million citizens in the European Union who use their mobile phone at least once per year for roaming while they are abroad, and they have to pay the price.
The value of the revenue from this for the industry is roughly EUR 800 million.
The reduction - which will be voted by Parliament tomorrow - means 60% for text messaging.
Concerning the per-second billing for roaming calls: simply said, do not make the people pay for what they have not utilised, only make them pay for what they have really utilised.
I think the people outside will understand that this Parliament works for the citizen.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by congratulating both the rapporteur, Mrs Vălean, and the rapporteur for the first regulation on roaming, Mr Rübig, on the excellent cooperation which we had in the Committee on Culture and Education, for which I acted as draftsman, on a matter which is naturally of interest to 150 million consumers and to the telecommunications industry.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Vălean, in particular, but also Commissioner Reding, who showed great commitment in the negotiations for the Roaming II Regulation.
I would like to say thank you to Commissioner Reding, to Mrs Vălean, and to the rapporteurs of all the groups, because we have provided a fine example of European Union action in times of crisis.
Now I call Mrs Ţicău to speak under the catch-the-eye procedure. (RO) Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate my fellow Members on the work they have done and the report they have compiled.
I also recall that during the previous debate two years ago on reducing mobile phone roaming tariffs we had a very wide-ranging discussion.
I would like to say that I feel it is very important to continue reducing existing mobile phone charges and by larger amounts, for both outgoing and incoming calls.
This is important, because this matter in large measure concerns the youngest group in our society. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I am pleased with the direction in which we are moving.
I did not expect to see improvements to my status as a consumer so soon and from this directive, in particular.
They have made it possible, in just seven months, for a very important proposal for the free movement of citizens and the bringing down of excessive charges to become a reality.
I would like somebody here in this House to explain to me how the market can be said to be functioning when the cost to operators for transferring a text message from one country to another is less than 11 cents, while the average consumer has to pay more than 28 cents.
So if we now fix a cap of 11 cents I think there is ample room for manoeuvre; there is ample room for competition to develop.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 22 April 2009.
