On behalf of the European Parliament, I express our profound indignation and utter condemnation of this attack.
Let us pay homage on this day of national mourning in Italy, to the bravery, courage and dedication of the Italian and soldiers who laid down their lives in Iraq for peace and freedom.
I ask you to observe one minute's silence in their memory. (1) &#160;&#160; – The first item is the Commission statement on its legislative and work programme for 2004 and the Oral Question on Eurostat (PPE-DE: O-0067/2003 – B5-0415/2003). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time during this legislature that I will address Parliament on the state of the Union.
It is a solemn occasion in the work of our institutions, when, traditionally, we take stock of the situation and cast an eye together over the work the Commission plans to do in the coming year.
I know I can speak for the whole of the Commission when I express my deepest sympathy for all the women, men and children who have been affected by these tragedies.
Ladies and gentlemen, the problems we experience every day show us that, despite these difficult moments, the Union is in good health, notwithstanding the Eurosceptics and the unexpected critics.
However, there are some concerns about the deficit, which could grow further next year as a result of the tax cuts and the cost of the conflict in Iraq.
The recovery is still fragile, however, as I said, and we need to speed up implementation of the Lisbon agenda and continue our structural reforms.
Bolstered by the support it received at the October European Council, our initial proposal has become a genuine road map with clearly-defined actions and deadlines for the elimination of the financial and, above all, regulatory and administrative obstacles that discourage investment.
The Initiative also includes the quick-start list, which consists of a series of projects that are or will soon be ready for launching.
However, as an overall guideline, we expect 60% of the capital needed to fund the projects to come from the public sector and 40% from private investors.
Then the Member States will need to reform their administrations and regulations, which are often the real obstacle preventing these projects from being implemented.
The legislative and work programme for the coming year coincides, ladies and gentlemen, with the major changes for the European Union.
I will just remind you of the key dates for the institutions: on 1&#160;May, 10 new Member States will officially join the Union, the elections will take place in June and the current Commission’s term of office will end on 31&#160;October 2004.
The programme I am presenting to you today is intended to complete the achievement of the strategic objectives that this Commission set itself for its term of office.
The proposals cover the political priorities that were discussed in depth in our structured dialogue with Parliament and the Council between March and June.
The main priority is to give shape to the future of the enlarged Union.
It is based on two cornerstone objectives: ensuring the success of accession and preparing the political ground for the new Financial Perspective.
As regards stability, we will need to develop a neighbourhood policy to create a ring of friends around the new borders of Europe.
From an operational point of view, the programme incorporates the objectives contained in the new interinstitutional agreement with a view to streamlining legislative activity.
For example, we have brought our proposals into line with the Union’s annual and multiannual programming and we undertake to apply the integrated impact assessment process to all the most important initiatives.
At this point, we should not forget the recently-adopted legislative framework for the chemical sector.
The structured dialogue has proved to be an excellent instrument but there is always room for improvement and that is necessary.
Bearing in mind the deadlines that will affect both of our institutions next year, the Commission will work closely together with Parliament to improve our relationship.
Lastly, we have conducted an initial evaluation of the internal reforms that have modernised our financial and personnel management.
The serious irregularities in past management of the Union’s statistical office, Eurostat, have given us much food for thought and led us to re-examine the situation, which has resulted in our proposing a plan of action that I would now like to outline to you.
On 25&#160;September 2003, I gave my views on the Eurostat affair to a meeting of the Conference of Presidents.
In short, it is quite clear that the most serious events took place before 1999, that the reorganisation exercise started in 2000 and that Eurostat, Financial Control and other sources involved OLAF very swiftly on the main aspects of this affair.
All these reforms have been introduced gradually.
As I stated on 25&#160;September, it would be unfair to judge the reform, with its successes and its inadequacies, as if everything had been completely operational as early as 2000.
Rather, the period 2000-2003 must be seen as a transitional period.
Although the general principles which formed the basis of the code in 1999 should be maintained, in particular the principle of non-interference in management, more emphasis should be placed on the Commissioners' political responsibility, which covers not only their own actions but also those of their departments.
The code will also lay down a specific procedure for formally referring matters to the Commissioner, so that the Director-General can immediately draw the Commissioner's attention to any fact or development that might involve the Commissioner’s political responsibility or that of the College as a whole.
Secondly, I would also like to respond to another question thrown up by the Eurostat affair.
Had they been centralised and analysed as a whole, we would not have had to wait for the first substantive information from OLAF before taking precautionary measures.
I have therefore decided to introduce a new systemfor collecting and cross-checking all information relating to allegations of fraud, irregularities or wrongdoing, for analysing this information and for informing either the Commission or the Commissioner responsible, as appropriate, so that they can take any administrative, financial or other measures necessary, in particular to protect the financial interests of the Union.
The preparatory work will be carried out at administrative level by a group of officials of the rank of Director-General, coordinated by the Secretary-General.
This system will enable us, in particular, to provide better follow-up to information received from OLAF, IDOC and the IAS.
Clearly, the idea is not to carry out additional investigations or to usurp the role of the policy-makers or administrators, who will continue to be responsible for keeping a close watch on management and responding appropriately to the information and investigation reports they receive.
To conclude this reflection on the Eurostat affair, I will now come to OLAF.
Nevertheless, the current legal framework remains vague on whether or not it must pass on information to the institutions or persons concerned by an investigation.
This has proved damaging in the Eurostat case.
The Commission is in the awkward situation of having to take political and legal responsibility for OLAF's work without actually having the means to exercise that responsibility, and it is also legally responsible for OLAF in any court actions that may be brought against it, for example claims for damages by individuals who feel their rights have been infringed.
I would specify here that the decision on whether or not to open investigations must always remain with OLAF.
Thirdly, clearer rules on the flow of information between OLAF and the institutions and bodies concerned.
Mr President, here, then, are the basic lines of the action plan I am proposing to launch in response to the questions raised by the Eurostat affair.
Moreover, I hope that our contacts with Parliament will be advanced enough for us to table a legislative proposal on OLAF that has a reasonable chance of being adopted by Parliament and which takes us forward towards the idea of the European Prosecutor, which we all continue to support.
Of course, this will be a transitional situation in which no new portfolios will be created and it will last only until the end of this Commission's term of office: from 1&#160;November&#160;2004 onwards we will have 25 Commissioners.
Lastly, the effectiveness of the Commission depends not on the number of its members but on the way in which its resources are used.
Early this year, we launched a wide-ranging debate on the new Financial Perspective.
In practical terms, this means that we must work along the following lines: a road map for the Lisbon and Gothenburg agenda; solidarity between countries and regions to help those who are lagging behind; European citizenship in an area that has developed from a marketplace into a political area; the external dimension of our model and our policy choices, starting with the neighbouring countries with which we must build a ring of friends.
In conclusion, Mr President, 2004 will be a year of challenges, renewal and undertakings.
The European elections will provide an invaluable opportunity to gauge the extent to which citizens are participating in our venture.
Against such a backdrop, the Commission is aware that it acts as a point of reference providing the system with continuity, stability and dynamism.
We are committed to striving together with Parliament, the Council and all the other Union institutions to make a success of our appointment with history.
Finally, next year will see the start of the negotiations for the definition of the next Financial Perspective, which will be decisive in orienting European Union policy in the coming years.
Although the Council has not yet set out its position with respect to the Commission programme, it certainly agrees with – and is ready to subscribe to – the three main priorities identified by the Community executive: enlargement, stability and sustainable growth.
The Council has taken note of the objectives established by the Commission, as well as the initiatives and proposals it intends to present during 2004 in order to implement these priorities.
Taking into account the institutional events of the coming year, the legislative work will need to be as focused as possible, and the Presidency is therefore pleased to note the Commission’s undertaking to concentrate first and foremost on the initiatives considered to be most essential.
I would also like to emphasise that, even more than in the past, the cooperation between the Council and Parliament will be decisive in ensuring that the Commission’s legislative proposals are adopted within the hoped-for timescale.
Indeed, as the European Council stressed in October, this procedure is extremely important if we are to avoid the situation arising where European Union legislation makes the Union less competitive than other major economic areas of the world.
The dialogue between the Commission, on the one hand, and the Council and Parliament, on the other, which was initiated on the basis of the Commission Communication on Annual Policy Strategy, makes it possible for these two institutions to ensure that their point of view on the proposals put forward by the Community executive for the following year is taken into account, before the final version of the legislative and work programme is drawn up.
More specifically, its timely presentation would enable the discussion of budgetary procedures to be developed on the basis of the results of the structured dialogue with Parliament and the Council.
In this connection, I wish to remind you that, in accordance with the reforms approved by the Seville European Council, the aim of which is to ensure greater continuity and consistency in the Council’s work, the six delegations that will be holding the Council Presidency over the coming three years are drawing up a multiannual strategic programme that will be adopted by the December European Council.
I would also like to mention here that the future – Irish and Dutch – Presidencies, which will have the task next year of steering the work of the Council on the Commission’s initiatives for 2004, are already working on drawing up the next annual programme for the Council&#160;–&#160;as, I remember, was done by the Greek and Italian Presidencies for the current year.
Parliament will, of course, be informed at the earliest possible date of the results of this work so that it can put forward its own observations, as envisaged by the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, lastly, I would like, if I may, to take the opportunity provided by this debate on the Commission’s programme to say a few very brief words on the goals of the Italian Presidency with a view to the December European Council, a subject to which I shall, of course, return with you in more detail during the next plenary session in Brussels.
As regards enlargement, the December European Council will be called upon, first and foremost, to evaluate the progress achieved in the negotiations with Bulgaria and Romania, on the basis of the reports and strategy papers presented recently by the Commission, and thus to establish the timescale for the conclusion of the membership negotiations with these two countries.
Again on the basis of the Commission report, the European Council will also be called upon to assess the progress made by the 10 accession countries in the adoption and application of the Community .
As regards the stability objective, as defined in the Commission’s programme, where internal actions are concerned, the Council will need to assess the progress made in terms of asylum, migration and external borders, especially in the light of the timetable drawn up in Thessaloniki, Seville and Tampere.
As regards external issues, the European Council will be called upon to adopt the European Security Strategy drawn up by the Secretary General/High Representative, to address the question of weapons of mass destruction and to evaluate the progress made in ESDP.
The Heads of State or Government will also approve a detailed work programme for the Commission and the Secretary General/High Representative on relations with the Arab world.
Lastly, on the subject of sustainable growth, the European Council will need to adopt tangible decisions on the Growth Initiative, especially where the quick-start programme is concerned, and will receive a report from the Commission containing proposals for the reinforcement of the production framework, with a view to preventing deindustrialisation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I wish to express our sense of grief for the murdered Italian soldiers and and also the Iraqi citizens who fell victim to this hideous crime.
There are situations in political life when one would gladly avoid making certain statements or adopting a particular type of speech.
Mr Prodi, you deemed it appropriate to launch a political manifesto in Italy last week.
This manifesto, Mr Prodi, is not our problem, although it could be argued that if you present a comprehensive policy programme, this should not be in response to a country’s domestic political situation; the place for this would have been the European Parliament.
Mr Cohn-Bendit, you will undoubtedly have an opportunity to express your views.
My main point of criticism, Mr Prodi, is that you have engaged in party politics.
You have called on a specific political movement, namely the Italian left, to join forces, thus creating ... ...
Let me say, on behalf of my group, that every single member of our group shares the passion for Europe, and we should not drive a wedge between Europeans, neither in Italy nor in Europe.
Nor can it be claimed that this was a declaration made in a private capacity, for it comes from the President of the Commission.
We welcome this clarification, but even members of your Commission were still saying last week that there were rumours you might be standing as a list candidate in the European elections.
Nonetheless, this state of affairs – this rumour mill – has also harmed the Commission and I mention it here because it needs to be mentioned.
We want to serve Europe, and that is why we must not divide Europe.
I welcome the fact that the constitutional draft states that in future, the outcome of the European elections will be taken into account when a candidate is proposed for the office of Commission President.
I believe this is an issue which you will also be addressing today, Mr Prodi.
I would like to give encouragement to your Commission and thank Commissioner Solbes in particular – whom we regard as the guarantor of European currency stability – for maintaining this course, not only towards the small countries but also the large countries in the European Union.
Mr Antonione, I particularly appreciate the fact that the representative of the Council is here today.
This should be taken as read, but this was not the case in the past.
Mr Prodi, you are the President of all the Europeans.
Give us, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the opportunity to give you our trust until the end of your term in office on 1 November 2004.
In any case, between now and the last day of this legislature what we really need is a strong and determined Commission.
I would first like to stress that the ELDR Group defends the right of the Commission President to express himself personally on political issues concerning the future of the European Union.
I must however say that, as a Liberal who treasures the diversity and pluralism of public opinion, I have some personal doubts about the wisdom of advocating two opposing blocks in the European debate either here or, more generally, in the Member States.
Turning to the annual programme, other colleagues will speak on the Eurostat issue later.
The ELDR Group has consistently welcomed the progress made over the last few years in the way in which the Commission has presented this important document.
There has been an attempt, both this year and in previous years, to include some strategic thinking and we welcome some of the recent innovations, such as the move towards more rigorous impact assessment procedures.
However, as President Prodi himself rightly indicated, there is still much room for improvement, and we would like to highlight three areas in which we consider that the document presented to us today is still seriously lacking.
Firstly, the selection of the three strategic priorities – namely enlargement, stability and growth – is fine.
However, those priorities are so open-ended it is almost impossible to imagine anyone disagreeing with them.
It is equally impossible to imagine any legislative or non-legislative proposal that would not fall under those three strategic priorities.
In other words there seems to be no real choice about what the European Commission is proposing this year, and no choice about what the strategic priorities of the European Union should be.
On the contrary, there is a risk of a very open-ended approach towards EU business because of the very open-ended nature of the three priorities themselves.
Secondly, there is no discernible link between those three vague priorities and the lengthy annexes containing legislative and non-legislative proposals.
They are not clearly organised according to the priorities, but seem to have been organised artificially into two categories.
In other words, the priorities themselves do not seem to have guided the selection of legislative and non-legislative proposals before us today, which again gives a somewhat artificial tenor to the selection of the proposals presented to us.
Thirdly, as both the President of the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council have mentioned, this summer we all signed an interinstitutional agreement explicitly designed to ensure better law-making in the European Union.
There are some indications on the legal bases, in these lengthy, somewhat impenetrable annexes, but no reference whatsoever to the choice of legislative instrument.
It cannot be that, a few months after the signing of an interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the Commission fails, at the first hurdle, to honour the promises made in that agreement.
This is a terrifically important moment in the political and legislative cycle in the European Union.
It is the moment when the European Commission exercises its supreme privilege and prerogative – namely the monopoly right of initiative.
There is still very significant room for improvement. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, on behalf of my colleagues, and especially my Italian ones, in the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, I should like to express our deepest sympathy with the badly hit Italian and Iraqi families.
I should like to use the GUE/NGL Group’s speaking time to talk about Eurostat, and I should like to make it quite clear that my group is not out to have the Prodi Commission dismissed because of Eurostat.
The Commission has a very ambitious work programme for 2004 with enlargement and the creation of stability and growth, not only in the EU but also in the rest of the world.
It unfortunately confirms what we have known for a long time, namely that the administration of Eurostat has been scandalous.
It has, however, been very difficult for the Internal Audit Service to establish what really went on in Eurostat.
We know, in other words, that Eurostat’s administration has been scandalous, including after 1999.
I am obliged to say this very clearly: my group is sick to death of action plans.
We have seen a host of action plans and plans for reform over the last four years.
The Middle East is a daily reminder that one of the reasons that peace and democracy now seem increasingly distant possibilities is the international community’s inability to achieve genuine cohesion.
The Commission President started his speech today with an optimistic reference to the economy and told us that the goal of a larger Europe which is capable of responding to the challenges of our time is within our reach.
Mr Poettering, I can assure you that the approach underpinning the work programme is identical to that of President Prodi’s manifesto.
Commissioner Reding, the European Parliament has been calling for almost two years, genuinely united in its desire, for a proposal for a directive or, at least, a Green Paper, on media concentration and freedom of information.
It is clear from your manifesto that you attach great importance to this issue.
The recommendations in the discharge reports are not just friendly advice&#160;–&#160;they are provisions which require the Commission to act and to do so in useful time.
Moreover, many of these measures have already been called for by Parliament.
In any case, President Prodi, I would like to say in conclusion, on behalf of my group, that the report still fails to express awareness of a certain sense of responsibility and to acknowledge the errors made.
As you, yourself, admitted, the initial signs were there before May 2003: it was a question of seeing them, and we feel that this is something we can be forgiven for expecting of the Commission, particularly after the events which marked the term of office of the Santer Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, I should like to express sympathy and respect for the Italian police officers who, together with American and British soldiers, have been killed by terrorists in Iraq since Parliament last met.
The western world must stand united in combating terrorism.
The Commission still has to devise all these arrangements.
This can only be interpreted as an expression of total incompetence on the part of the Commission and as a lack of will in a system characterised by a down-at-heel administrative culture.
How, then, will he explain the fact that the press and the European Parliament knew about the Eurostat scandal a good year before MEPs forced the Commission to act.
Forty-seven auditors and other experts have worked with Eurostat since June 2003.
The state of the Union, Mr President: according to the lines you are all taking&#160;–&#160;Parliament, Council and Commission&#160;–&#160;we should have a Commission comprising 30 members, soon to become 35, because we are the United States of Europe.
It is not this way that you will unite a Europe which provides an alternative, the Europe of Altiero Spinelli, of Alcide De Gasperi, of Konrad Adenauer rather than of Erich Ollenhauer or his other contemporary nationalistic social democrat rival.
Such is the state of the Union.
They will take place in an atmosphere of hope for a constitution for Europe, on the basis of the excellent draft submitted by the Convention, all of this against an unstable international background, with an increasingly-entrenched war in Iraq, intensifying international terrorism, presidential elections in the United States and a still-fragile economic climate in Europe.
In such a situation we need to hold to our course with a strong and independent Commission at the helm.
We therefore need to concentrate on those proposals that absolutely must be adopted by the end of the parliamentary term, that is to say during the first quarter of 2004, and monitor progress on those that we are patiently waiting to scrutinise for the first time.
For the second year running, we have maintained the principle of structured dialogue between parliamentary committees and commissioners.
We welcome this, but the dialogue still has room for improvement.
We therefore propose the creation of a more reliable interinstitutional timetable, to be drafted on a multiannual basis, which would make it easier to follow up and evaluate the actual results achieved.
As far as the accession of the ten new Member States is concerned, we have every confidence in the friends who will be joining us.
We take note of the extraordinary progress that they have made, but we attach great importance to their respecting the and applying the texts relating to controls at the new external border.
This enlargement cannot succeed unless the institutional framework is adapted.
This draft should therefore be safeguarded and must be recognisable in the constitutional treaty.
The added value of the European Union rightly lies in policies which further the fight against illegal immigration, in common management of our borders and in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and this thanks to enhanced police and judicial cooperation and the development of a common asylum policy setting out clear procedures.
These initiatives should be taken in cooperation with the countries of the Mediterranean Basin and the enlarged Union’s new neighbours: Russia, Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus.
Whether it be transport policy, research policy, which is still insufficient in the light of the brain drain, telecommunications, with the development of the Internet, our Structural Funds policy, which is essential for revitalising the regions – and not only in the enlargement countries – all of our initiatives and policies should place the people at their heart.
Finally, I regret the obvious lack of commitment on the part of the Member States when it comes to implementing Community legislation, all the more so when the codecision procedure is used. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Prodi, you are right to make the issue of enlargement the central priority for 2004 in your proposals.
For that reason, the Commission is right to focus in the coming months on ensuring that where there is corruption, where there are administrative issues to be resolved, and where nuclear safety is at stake, all the countries which are due to accede to the European Union on 1 May 2004 are genuinely preparing to do so.
Our negotiations with Bulgaria and Romania must continue too.
We must state clearly and unequivocally that 2010 is the envisaged date – but no country can assume that the envisaged date will be the actual date unless they persist with the reforms they have begun.
Mr Prodi, you will have the task of preparing the Council’s decision on Turkey next year.
However, I would ask you to consider this: unless a positive decision is adopted in favour of opening accession negotiations, you will need to come up with ideas on how we can intensify our cooperation with Turkey until – and, indeed, during – the opening of negotiations.
The events of recent days in Istanbul demonstrate the importance of cooperation with Turkey, especially on security issues.
I agree that this is an important aspect of our development, also in the context of the wider Europe.
However, cooperation with our neighbours is also essential, for example, in preventing cross-border crime and combating the evils of human trafficking.
We need a swift decision here.
This House must make some swift decisions in order to implement the Growth Initiative.
If we want to modernise Europe, we – and that means the European Union as a whole and, of course, all the individual Member States – must increase investment not only in knowledge but also in our infrastructure.
I sometimes have the impression that we are more liberal than the neoliberals in their theory books and more American than the Americans in some of our steps towards harmonisation and liberalisation.
That is not an argument against liberalisation, but simply an argument for considering the social impacts of unemployment etc.
In this context – and in my view, the paper does not focus adequately on this issue either – I would like to highlight the importance of public services, which we will be discussing next week in this House.
Many public services are a particular feature of the European social model which we wish to stand up for, clearly and unequivocally, also to the outside world.
This Parliament has very often discussed the position of this House and the European Union on the Middle East.
However, none of the developments in the Middle East and none of the criticism we voice towards Israel remotely justifies anti-Semitic statements or actions.
Mr Prodi, you have heard our views today.
In the process that is now to be begun, it is absolutely crucial to ensure that we continue to have a strong internal audit service which, in spite of everything, is of course the first link in the chain when it comes to discovering fraud, misappropriation and irregularities.
It is important for us to have a strong and independent OLAF.
I think, in actual fact, that political responsibility is of crucial importance and, what is more, political responsibility borne by the individual Commissioner.
I should therefore like to ask the President of the Commission how the political responsibility we are now to have defined differs from that defined by the independent experts and that indicated in the Code of Conduct signed by the Commissioners in 1999.
We would like a straight answer from the Commission to the question whether we can expect its position on employment directives before the end of March.
This would allow us during the last plenary meeting in April to give our position on these employment directives against the backdrop of the current economic climate.
We want to speed up the process of adopting directives in the area of the European works council and on working times, which have to do with social dumping.
We want acceleration where the European social funds are involved, and I could go on like this for at least another five minutes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like once again to express our sympathy for the victims of the massacres of Nasiriya, for their families and for all the European armed forces engaged throughout the world in peace missions combating terrorism I will now focus my speech on the Eurostat case.
I would respectfully point out that fraud is serious by its very nature, and it is much more serious and unacceptable when public officials are involved.
What is more, we fail to understand how the Commission’s watchdog system works, for many other outrageous incidents have been discovered in addition to the Eurostat affair, such as the case of cereal prices.
It therefore plays a part in defining Member States’ economic and financial policies and, in practice, in forcing the States to adopt stringent policies which often involve budgetary or welfare cuts.
On the other hand, the damage this would cause at institutional level would be severe and, quite frankly, unacceptable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to make clear my distaste for the complete farce that went on over the release of the OLAF report and the reports on Eurostat.
As a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I was perfectly entitled to see those reports without being subjected to a ridiculous Stalinist rigmarole.
The report highlights the fundamentally inadequate procedures for combating fraud and more importantly how slow the Commission was to react to clear evidence of major problems within Eurostat.
The stench of graft is all around us and is getting stronger by the day. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have before me President Prodi’s manifesto.
Since most of the Commission is here, it would make sense to summon all our colleagues in order to hold a real debate on what the European Union is going to be.
My Group has continually pressed for reforms based on the Wise Men's report.
There has been significant progress, and most recently we received a very positive document detailing changes in the financial regulation and the staff regulations yesterday evening in the Committee on Budgets.
One or two of our members said to you that reforms in relation to the flow of information, proper internal audits and Commissioners' responsibility for the services they run should have been completed by September 1999.
You have sacked a Director-General, but the Commissioners are still in place.
You reassured us this morning in the Committee on Budgetary Control that the Commissioners will have responsibility, but there are still unanswered questions.
You have come forward with proposals for the reorganisation of OLAF.
Other speakers have already said that we will need a strong Commission during 2004 to ensure that we can manage the responsibilities of the Union effectively. &#160;&#160; – Mr Elles, I share your view about the presence of Members, but unfortunately the President cannot run Parliament like a regiment of soldiers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it was a good thing, Mr Prodi, that you attended the Committee on Budgetary Control this morning, and it is important to say so.
That is very important, for it would have resulted in a major clash with this House.
Let me comment on the issue of political responsibility.
The fault lies with OLAF, or the director-general, or whoever, but not with the Commission.
That is an issue on which we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will be focusing. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, your Commission was not formed out of the blue.
After all, it has taken a thousand press articles before Parliament was informed about the Eurostat fraud, and today, you are bringing us a fine story, showing, in fact, that you are evaluating OLAF rather than Eurostat and your own responsibility.
Approval also has to be given to efforts to establish sustainable growth through a whole series of initiatives, including, amongst others, the Lisbon objectives and the major public works programmes that are currently being planned.
The challenge which faced the newly-elected Parliament and the Commission in 1999 was to change this attitude.
As proposed by Parliament, an interinstitutional agreement was adopted on better legislation, containing proposals for alternative forms of regulation, with the option for Parliament and the Council to have a monitoring role as legislators.
We would like to give Europe back to the citizen, to adopt policy from the bottom up.
We are therefore carrying out reforms both within and outside of the framework of the Treaties.
Thanks to these, Europe will be able to perform better and more democratically, for example in the area of cross-border crime.
The citizens and the European Parliament want a democracy, not a technocracy.
Thanks to the White Paper and many actions that have subsequently been taken by Parliament and by the Commission, better and more effective legislation and administration have been established to a great extent.
This has been done by guaranteeing access to documents for the citizens, by remaining committed to a modern human resources policy and a result-oriented budget, by working on announced impact assessments, for example in the economic, social and environmental fields, and by actually implementing the interinstitutional agreement.
We need results in 2004.
From this point of view, 2004 ought to be the year that will allow us to reconcile two absolutely essential objectives of our Union: peace and prosperity.
The third objective set for 2004 by the Commission, sustainable development, is therefore absolutely essential in the light of the Union’s current economic situation.
In this context my group dares to hope that the Commission will make employment a clear priority, because neither enlargement nor a new constitution will be acceptable to our fellow citizens unless we first turn our attention to the issue of employment.
To do so, we also need investment, both private and public, in human resources and we need a return to a level of growth that is sufficient to increase the quality of life of our fellow citizens.
We might perhaps regret the fact, moreover, that the Commission has not, in its wide-ranging programme for 2004, addressed more explicitly the question of economic governance, above all given that the conditions in which the Commission is intending to prepare the spring summit, particularly as regards the implementation of the Lisbon strategy, do not yet appear to be quite clear.
Lastly, it seems to me that the Commission’s programme ought to give a higher profile to the issue of sustainable development.
Firstly, there is not a word about the second reading of the directive on investment services, when it is a text on which we have done a great deal of work.
This Commission and this Parliament ought to conclude work on all of these dossiers in the course of 2004.
Let me finish by saying how surprised I am, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, that your legislative programme, which is so heavy and so crowded, does not even mention a framework directive on services of general interest, something that my group and this House as a whole have repeatedly requested, and for which the Convention also expressed a strong desire. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I turn to you, Mr&#160;President, in your capacity as chairman of the Conference of Presidents.
It is thanks to this interinstitutional dialogue that today we have a programme for 2004 that largely reflects the shared priorities of our institutions.
In this context I would remind you that last year Parliament put forward the idea of having policy papers for each legislative area.
These would form the basis for more detailed programming and would also be entirely in keeping with the objectives of the interinstitutional agreement on ‘Better Law-Making’, which requires the three institutions to both better coordinate and better synchronise their legislative work.
I would stress the three institutions because the Council is not currently involved in the structured dialogue.
At the next Brussels meeting of the European Council, the Council’s first multiannual programme will be presented.
It would be helpful if the European Parliament could be informed of the programme in good time precisely so as to establish a constructive dialogue between the three institutions concerned.
I will also take the liberty of drawing your attention to the need to agree a procedure for an dialogue with the Commission for the year 2004.
If it is true that the current Commission really will be able to present its political strategy and budget for 2005 to the Union before October of next year then it should also be able to present its legislative programme during the course of that same month of October.
The experiences of these last few months and the prospects for the future are in line with the interinstitutional agreement on ‘Better Law-Making’ and fully confirm my optimism.
It is up to all of us to work on this together in the interests of our fellow citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is the year in which it was planned to conclude the programme laid down at the Tampere&#160;European&#160;Council.
Mr&#160;Prodi, you can count on our support in defending the programme before the Council.
There is also an extensive list of decisions outstanding in the field of cooperation over criminal issues.
The Stability Pact, one of the foundations of our single currency, is in jeopardy, and the single currency is one of the pillars of this entire Union.
As a second point, you mentioned the Lisbon strategy.
In modern organisations it falls to the administration of political power or of legislative power to exercise control.
Its commitment to achieve a broad programme of internal reform includes agreeing a new financial regulation for the management of Community funds.
For 2004, you list a work programme with seven proposals of interest to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.
I must start by voicing criticism of the fact that these work and action programmes are always submitted relatively late in the day.
No one wants to be exposed to this criticism and, above all, this responsibility.
The priorities of the Commission’s action programme for 2004 do not necessarily lie in the area of education, youth and culture.
In the planning timetable for this year, the objectives set were far higher than actually achieved.
The post-2006 training programmes are a case in point, which are a key aspect of cultural policy.
I wish to draw particular attention to the legislative proposals in the audiovisual sector, which are supposed to be submitted in December.
The accession of ten new Member States, stability and sustainable growth are undoubtedly important, but this does not mean that culture and education should be overlooked.
The focus should not always be on economic and political linkage.
These are all elements which, naturally, occur to everyone sooner or later, but it would be extremely bad if these were to exclude or relativise the agreed criteria.
Does it share Commissioner Verheugen's view that we, because of enlargement, should strive towards a common foreign and security policy with all the more urgency? &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Eurostat affair is now a matter of public knowledge; it is a scandal and we cannot erase it.
Secondly, we have an obligation towards our citizens to rectify the things that have occurred during this period, that is, during our, and your, term in office.
That must change.
That must change too.
The things that have happened must be rectified, and then we can restore voters’ confidence. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to start by expressing my heartfelt gratitude to President Prodi for coming to the Committee on Budgetary Control this morning.
The plan of action that he presented to us needs some commentary, and I would like, in the first instance, to deal with the continuing failure to sort out the issue of communication between the administration and the Commission – by which I mean the Commissioners, even though I can see how many measures already exist on paper; the September 1999 code of conduct, the ‘Charter for Delegated Authorising Officers’ of December 2000, and so on.
To do so would harm the European budget and hence the European taxpayer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to begin, as did the Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, by expressing my pleasure at the presence of President Romano Prodi in the meeting of that committee this morning.
This is an extremely positive outcome of the current reform.
For that you have our entire support.
In so doing, you will ultimately be acceding to our demands, for we have always wanted the same high standards to apply on all our external borders after enlargement, and precautions need to be taken for that to be the case.
Secondly, I want to stress the need to be careful not to damage our European institutions by blowing up into a major scandal matters which are important in relation to Eurostat but which, bearing in mind the prospective elections, might do untold damage to our institutions if pursued too strongly.
It is deeply regrettable that the Commission has still not come forward with the promised initiatives highlighted again and again by the European Parliament: the collective rights of employees, social security for atypical workers, protection against individual dismissal, revision of the working time directive and of the European Works Council directive.
The Commission also seems to be stalling on the other important areas, such as minimum income.
It has produced a detailed study on the costs of non-social Europe which concluded that, while the so-called costs of social policy are usually immediately visible, the benefits are more difficult to identify and quantify.
It is obvious from the opening speeches in this morning's debate that the election campaign is already under way.
It is important to root out corruption, but we should be extremely cautious how we present this to our electorate. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by impressing upon us two mottos for the Commission and for our own work.
So, Mr President of the Commission, he who would make Europe more transparent must be prepared to know his own tasks and pursue objectives in a consistent way.
For example, the Meijer report on urban transport is a classic example and, what we need is to use the time from now until the elections in order to advance a number of other issues, such as the harmonisation of certain social dimensions in the road transport sector, the amended proposal for a regulation on action by the Member States concerning the terms under which public services are provided in the rail, road and internal waterway transport sectors and the ban on heavy goods vehicles at weekends, which is also an issue that has been dragging on for a very long time.
Similarly, as far as regional policy is concerned, although it is not a strictly legislative matter, I want to point out that the Commission needs to present the third report on cohesion as quickly as possible, so that the European Parliament has an opportunity to take a position on this very important issue before the European elections. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us consider the Eurostat affair.
Above all, I note the absence of changes in structure and personnel, for example changes to the responsibilities of the three Commissioners concerned.
Let me just remind you how this House, right at the beginning of this Commission’s term of office, wanted to hold fast to the separation of the budget and budgetary control, precisely in order to avoid the conflicts of interest that face us now.
It would have been easy for you to take at least one or two of these three possible courses of action, but you have taken none of them.
I think he makes the Commission slightly more impotent by admitting that Commissioners currently have no political responsibility.
With Eurostat he has shut the stable door too late, a long time after the horses have bolted, and is looking to blame the messengers rather than resolving the problem.
I also want to be positive, because I know that ten new Commissioners will be coming into your midst as of May 2004.
As well as wanting to see an independent OLAF, I would like the Commission to consider the possibility of one of those Commissioners assuming responsibility for budgetary control and the internal audit service of the Commission, because the sooner it is separated from the budgetary function itself, the sooner we may start to make headway as regards these problems. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, all the political strategies presented are certainly very attractive, but, in many cases, they could come up against obstacles of varying size if they are not supported by a completely reliable organisational and administrative system.
As I have already stated at the Committee on Budgetary Control, I believe these measures are absurd, curious and outdated.
That is why the programme we have put forward is very limited, containing proposals that can feasibly be implemented in 2004; no more than what is feasible, taking into account, not least, the experience we gained in implementing the work programme for 2003, with the good and bad points of that process.
I would, moreover, stress that this Commission has made enlargement its main objective and will present its project for an enlarged Union.
We are talking about the Stability Pact, but while we are arguing numbers, fractions and decimal points, there are developments taking place in the political arena which I feel give cause for concern.
I would like to hear not just the Commission but Parliament, too, speak out loud and clear on this matter.
At the moment, I believe it is in our common interest not to be excluded from one of the greatest political processes, from one of the most important decisions affecting the work of our Commission.
Our ideas will be outlined in a political document which will be presented before the specific proposals for the Financial Perspective.
I would emphasise two of the areas we are working on: firstly, cohesion will continue to operate in order to prevent the regions which are lagging behind from being marginalised, and, secondly, cohesion will be more explicitly linked to the sustainable growth programme we are developing on the basis of the experience we have gained from managing the Lisbon and Gothenburg processes.
As regards OLAF, there is a key concept: we are on no account trying to turn the Eurostat crisis into an OLAF crisis.
It will be for OLAF to decide, like any investigative body, whether the case is sufficiently important for an OLAF inquiry to be opened or whether it is of purely administrative significance, or whether, quite simply, no action is necessary.
We have produced independent, accurate, factual reports which have shed light on all the points and have not revealed evidence of any irregularities after 1999.
We are looking into other specific proposals which we will discuss with Parliament.
We are working on it and the decision will be taken in the light of the debate which is currently starting.
I am very happy, Mr Poettering, to hear you criticise the Italian newspaper which called you before reading the document, for if it had read it, it would have found there the spirit of our founding fathers and your own words, the words you speak when you are not weighed down by the burden of the Eurosceptics who surround your group, words with which we agree and have agreed many times in the past.
Mr President, I say this to you very much as a friend, but also in all earnest and also in restrained language: you need the support not only of one side of this House.
I will therefore conclude by saying this: President Prodi, it is for you alone to decide whether you want us, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to be alongside you.
It would be unrealistic to suggest that people in such positions have not had a political past, or do not have a political future to look forward to.
I am saying this because someone spoke about President&#160;Berlusconi, who, until there is proof to the contrary, is head of a government and as such has the right to take political decisions in his country.
President&#160;Prodi has been appointed by the Council and voted in by Parliament.
Clearly, these points of view diverge.
The biggest single, immediate challenge in the weeks to come is to find the serenity and wisdom together, across the institutions and with the Member States, to produce for tomorrow's Europe a constitutional treaty that reflects the logic of the work of the European Convention.
That concludes the item. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is proposing by a very large majority that this Commission proposal should be rejected, and this is therefore the committee’s proposal for a legislative resolution.
I would hope that we can vote first on this proposal to reject before we go on to the amendments tabled for the plenary session.
So let us vote first on rejection of the proposal, as this will save us having to go through a pointless voting procedure. &#160;&#160; – In preparing the vote I took advice on this matter.
The House is free to accept or reject a proposal, as amended.
This figure demonstrates the limitations of the systems set up in the Member States to detect and eliminate these sources which, for various reasons, slip through the monitoring measures that have been put in place.
The Commission proposal, therefore, constitutes a justifiable Community initiative, which responds to two main objectives by creating a system of traceability: - to prevent exposure to ionising radiation resulting from the inadequate monitoring of high activity sealed radioactive sources; - to ensure that the safety of sources is monitored, in order to prevent, as far as possible, all malicious use.
I also agree with the compulsory monitoring of potential cross-border movement of the sources in question, both within the European Union and to third countries and to establishing, in line with the judicial and penal traditions of the Member States, a system of harmonised penalties that could be applied in the event that the rules are infringed. &#160;&#160; . – The decision to determine the indications that are to feature on signs posted at external border crossing points was taken first in 1994, under the Schengen system.
This initiative seeks to update these indications and also to set uniform minimum indications for use in signs.
I wish to highlight four essential points: - opting for the system of separate checkpoints, which is to be welcomed, given the differences in requirements relating to the carrying out of checks on citizens from the Community, from the European Economic Area or from Switzerland and on third-country nationals; - there must be no difference between signs for citizens of the Union and for nationals of countries have the same rights when crossing borders – these signs must be as clear and simple as possible; - the Member State authorities should put up signs written in other languages or using other characters, particularly in multilingual countries, in ones which use an alphabet with special characters or in ones which receive a large number of visitors who use languages with special characters; - this must be applied not only at airports but also at land and sea borders. &#160;&#160; . – This is a set of measures on crossing the external borders of the Member States, and which is concerned with checks on individuals at these borders, which I believe to be fully justified.
The system of separate checkpoints for citizens covered by Community law at authorised points for crossing the Union’s external borders is fully justified.
Lastly, the Member State authorities should be explicitly authorised to put up signs written in other languages or using other characters, particularly in multilingual countries, in ones which use an alphabet with special characters or in ones which receive a large number of visitors who use such languages.
These measures are suitable for their purpose and I therefore voted in favour of them. &#160;&#160; – We voted in favour of this report, which proposes initiating a procedure to recruit officials from the countries that the European Union needs to integrate on its enlargement, planned for 1&#160;May 2004.
Nevertheless, we wish to stress that we disagree with the choice made by the European institution to employ these new officials at pay levels that will be lower than those enjoyed by current European Union officials, given that they will be taken on at a time when a new salary scale is being put in place, which will be less favourable to new employees, whatever their country of origin.
If, as the Commission proposed, the Community funding of projects put forward under the Ten programme will rise from 10% to 30%, with the concomitant reduction in the number of projects approved – since the overall value of appropriations allocated will remain the same – there must be a real increase in the appropriations that are made available.
This is all the more regrettable because we know that some of these projects, such as Health, Learning and Security, could bring enormous benefits to our citizens. &#160;&#160; . – This proposal for a decision is intended to provide a response to the administration chapter of the action plan Europe 2005, specifically through the ‘Interchange of Data between Administrations Programme (IDA) to help to create pan-European administration services in order to support cross-border activities’.
The IDA programmes seek to promote cooperation between national public administrations and between these and the Commission, ‘helping’ to implement legislation, Community programmes, monitoring procedures, ‘and the open coordination method’.
Surrounding what appears to be a technical programme and its instruments, however, are doubts concerning the attempt to open the way to federalism, to promote European integration and to create the idea of ‘a European public administration’ in addition to the underlying objectives.
In actual fact, exchanges between national authorities and Community institutions are of crucial importance, both in operational terms – they constitute a valuable source of information and of cooperation for the staff of national public administrations and lead to greater efficiency – and in terms of guaranteeing citizens’ rights, by making the relationship between national and Community public authorities more transparent and straightforward.
I therefore voted in favour of the report. &#160;&#160; – To justify increasing tax on diesel fuel where it is lower than on petrol, the Commission either puts forward the argument that harmonisation is needed at European level or gives bogus reasons about protecting the environment.
But if this were the aim, it is the profits of these companies that ought to be taxed, so as not to penalise private individuals, including those on very low incomes who are often forced to travel in private cars because of a lack of adequate public transport. &#160;&#160; . – Despite voting against the report in question – entirely in line with the voting position set out by the Group of the Party of European Socialists – I believe that this Commission initiative is entirely valid and constitutes an extremely positive step towards achieving the smoother operation of the internal market.
As I had occasion to mention in the debate on the report, the proposal to reject the directive, tabled by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, must be seen as a spur for the Commission to amend the additional elements involved in this proposal for a rejection without discarding the fundamental reasons that underpin it. &#160;&#160; . – The Commission proposal seeks to achieve the gradual harmonisation, at a higher price, of excise rates for commercial fuel, and to separate the systems of taxation for commercial purposes from those for private purposes.
The Commission claims it wants to resolve distortions of competition in the internal market and to protect the environment in line with the ‘polluter-pays’ principle.
This proposal for a directive should be seen in the context of the strategy presented in the White Paper entitled ‘A European Transport Policy for 2010: time to decide’, which states the desire to redistribute the tax burden between ‘users’ and ‘taxpayers’ and to pass on to ‘users’ the ‘real’ costs of transport.
The proposal for a directive also sets minimum rates of excise duty for unleaded petrol and a central rate for commercial fuel.
We must look more closely at the idea of establishing two categories of tax on petrol and at the guarantee that the tax applicable to private vehicles – fuel for non-commercial purposes – will also be rapidly applied to the tax on unleaded petrol in order to take account of the repercussions that these measures will have for the industrial sectors in question.
Whilst I am aware that there are cases of ‘gasoline tourism’, I believe that the scale of this problem does not justify total harmonisation.
Portuguese truckers are actually unlikely to become involved in ‘gasoline tourism’ in the same way that German or Belgian truckers allegedly are. &#160;&#160; – We are in favour of developing research and thus of funding it.
It remains the case that the entire approach adopted in this report is to see research purely as a factor in competition between Europe and the United States or between different companies.
There is actually a contradiction between the search for profit and scientific research in the interests of society as a whole.
We did not vote against this report because we are in favour of public research benefiting from considerably more resources than is currently the case, but neither did we want to sanction the way research takes second place to the race for profit. &#160;&#160; – The vote on this report gives me an opportunity to pay tribute to that great parliamentarian, Mr Rolf Linkohr, and to acclaim the extraordinary work done by Commissioner Busquin in the course of his term of office, which is now fast nearing its end, to give research a true European dimension.
From a quantitative point of view, we now need to move up a gear, to start to prepare the seventh FRDP, with a budget of EUR&#160;30 million, and put pressure on those States that are not increasing, or are even in fact decreasing, their research spending.
Nor must it be forgotten that the future of business investment in R[amp]D depends on developments that are taking place in many other aspects of society, and on changes in the labour force and in the country’s overall development.
The European Parliament report is relevant because it reflects current concerns at the level of development of R[amp]D activities in Europe and the sector’s specific characteristics and needs.
This Commission Communication sets more ambitious targets than have been seen to date, by proposing measures intended to bring spending on research in the EU up to a level of 3% of GDP, with one-third coming from public funds and two-thirds from private funds.
Today, this percentage stands at only 1.9%, which falls considerably short of the percentages seen in the United States (2.7%) and in Japan (3%), and reveals significant discrepancies within the Union itself.
This is also my view and I consequently voted in favour of the report. &#160;&#160; – The Linkohr report denounces the fact that research spending is too low in Europe.
It never mentions the contribution that research can make to improving living and working conditions or protecting the environment.
The method proposed to achieve this is research carried out on a competitive basis, which bows more to the commercial interests of private companies.
The report notes that not all research activities have the expected positive impact on European economies; it therefore recommends that a European system be put in place to define criteria for effectiveness and success and to evaluate research on the basis of these criteria.
In fact it is precisely the community of researchers and scientists in France and other European countries that is protesting against the drastic cuts in public funding and against the obligation to direct research towards those areas that will more quickly turn in a profit.
I say ‘on a long-term basis’ because it is not a question simply of boosting economic activity in the short term but of guaranteeing in the long term, and in accordance with the Lisbon and Gothenburg objectives, the existence of an innovative and vital European industry.
This delay shows the inability of the ΕU to impose unequivocal solutions between conflicting interests and the reactions to the clearly negative results of liberalisation.
These so-called benefits are past or future job losses, the threat to salaries and working conditions, widespread job insecurity in companies – such as France Télécom in France – that are in the process of being privatised, and the risk of massive redundancies in private companies engaged in a ruthless trade war.
There may be a wider range of choice for users, but only for those clients capable of paying.
If we are to reap the real and tangible benefits from new and evolving information technologies we need to invest in the re-organisation of companies and in our administrative structures.
European Member State governments are also required to connect all public administrations to broadband usage by 2005.
As to public service, or even services of general interest, there is hardly a word, apart from some concern about citizens with disabilities.
This is, therefore, a report that fails to value public and universal service, a report that calls for liberalisation which deregulates further in the name of the primacy of competition and of the supposed economic advantages for businesses of ‘a fully competitive, open market’ in order to realise the ‘Lisbon Strategy’. &#160;&#160; The liberalisation of the telecommunications sector has led to the most serious crisis in its history.
The Commission’s proposal aims to facilitate effective and harmonised application of the security measures for ships and port facilities endorsed by Member States of the Union in the context of the International Maritime Organisation.
The proposal is intended to establish a common area of maritime security in which the same level of safety is guaranteed for all maritime movements within the European&#160;Union.
The proposal is in line with the text adopted by Parliament and the Council concerning security in the civil aviation sector.
The instruments adopted within the International Maritime Organisation only apply to ships engaged in international trade and to facilities at the ports they use.
I should like to reiterate once again that the IMO is determined that these security measures for maritime traffic shall come into force on 1&#160;July&#160;2004.
As you will understand, this massive cost, which will be divided between the European ports, will need to be paid, as there is no cofinancing as proposed by the Committee on Industry, by the ports, shipping companies and small and medium-sized companies engaged in fringe activities.
It is important that the rules drawn up by the International Maritime Organisation should actually be mandatory.
We hope, however, that the rules devised jointly by the rapporteur and the Council will indeed result in workable and practical regulations in ports, as these are crucial nodal points which we want to make safer without hindering them from functioning.
The sea can no longer be seen as an arena for individual adventure, for it also presents a risk to other people.
The IMO conventions are not in any way binding.
They mark out the path of maritime security and safety, but the path is still a long one. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, thank you for the dynamism you have injected into your work.
This is a thankless task from the outset, for the port authorities and shipping companies that are required to apply the new regulations will always experience these as a nuisance.
If this were to remain so thanks to this package of legislation, the question is whether we in Europe will receive credit for it.
I find it strange that we in Europe are going further than what we agreed in the framework of the IMO, especially by also wanting to apply the measures to our local shipping.
More obstacles in the transport of goods means that the transport sector, as a rule, will incur additional costs.
In Europe, this will be a different story anyhow, as our internal market does not, unfortunately, apply to our coastal strip.
Finally, I should like to say that, in general, I will be supporting the amendments tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
With the Miguélez Ramos report, we are invited to transpose two instruments adopted at world level by the IMO, aimed at just the right time at reinforcing the safety of port installations in the framework of the fight against international terrorism.
The changes made to the SOLAS Convention and to the ISPS Code at the initiative of the United States prove this, as does the raising of the Fipol ceiling, agreed to at the initiative of several European states.
There must therefore be no let-up in the pressure for responsible maritime transport, notably by creating a Particularly Sensitive Sea Area in the Atlantic and the Channel, as proposed by six European states.
That is why nothing is said about the real problems and the real threats to maritime security, in other words the health and safety of those working on ships and in ports, the age of the fleet and the 'cut-throat' ports or ports of convenience preached by the privatisation directive.
These are the real and major terrorist threats to shipping, not the ghost pirates the European Union is looking for.
The Commission is here today, and Parliament agrees with it, so that we can adopt these measures at Community level, wrap them up and put them into practice.
In this sense, I think that this is an absolutely positive initiative.
Indeed, the industry at European level is worried that it will bear the burden of the measures before us, measures which are necessary and which – no one is in any doubt – have to be taken.
That is why, given that the Council was not ready to accept certain amendments which directly addressed the question of funding by the Member States themselves, we called on the European Commission – both because the measures are urgent and because the European Parliament could not persuade the Council to move to the conciliation procedure (and I am glad that the Council accepts that at least) – to adopt an amendment making provision for the European Commission to present a study precisely on competition and the extra costs.
Security is an important issue in shipping.
My worry has been that small ships operating domestic services, such as ferries and coastal craft, should not have to be included in what is administratively very cumbersome security action.
The committee has already given attention to this and the matter should be remedied by the amendments proposed.
My other worry has to do with the increase in costs for small and medium-sized port facilities.
Everything that contributes to better protection must, therefore, be welcomed and, once again, very important arrangements are being proposed to us, which I support: a national monitoring centre for security at sea and increased staff training, not forgetting the adequate equipping of ports – so many measures for which we have called many times in this House.
As some of my fellow Members have said quite rightly during the debate on this regulation, in view of the existence of terrorism we are faced with a series of dangers.
We have adopted measures on the initiative of the Commission, which, in an active way, has been presenting proposals to us during this legislature for improving security in all forms of transport.
I would therefore like to congratulate the Commissioner on her proposals and the rapporteur on her determination and will for these measures to be applied quickly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, combating terrorism requires global action that takes account of the various threats the world faces today and which are, unfortunately, myriad.
Such action would necessarily involve the implementation, throughout the European Community, of the international security measures adopted by the International Maritime Organisation and consequently defining a common European policy in this field.
In this context, I should like to refer to three issues that I believe are crucial.
The inclusion of national maritime traffic should furthermore take account of the assessment of the risk in relation to the level of danger facing the vessel and/or cargo, and in relation to the vulnerability of the vessel or port facility, set against a cost/benefit analysis.
Lastly, I wish to point out that, in accordance with the regulation establishing the European Maritime Safety Agency, this body has no power to act in the field of security as such.
This aspect should be considered in a much-needed revision of this regulation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we European citizens are concerned about maritime safety and we Galicians in particular, since we directly suffered the extremely serious accidents we are all so aware of.
The consequences of these accidents oblige us to speed up the adoption of maritime safety measures of all types and to seek consensus between the various political groups and between the institutions – Commission, Parliament and Council.
We must therefore prevent long legislative procedures in order to respond to the citizens’ demands, reaching agreements at first reading preventing the need to go to the conciliation procedure.
I congratulate the Commission on the proposal it has presented to us, and our rapporteur on her report, which has achieved unanimity, which is significant, as is the support we are giving to the amendments introduced in relation to the extension to other types of ship, such as those transporting particularly dangerous goods, to those preventive measures of all types, and to global agreements within the world framework of the IMO, as well as with the United States.
This debate is therefore timely but, I would insist, we must remember that, if we agree on the fundamental issue, as we do in general terms, we must also agree on the form and the procedures, and act with the greatest diligence, as has been reiterated here.
The IMO measures within the framework of the SOLAS Agreement are therefore welcome, as will the MARPOL measures be, which not only enhance the safety of ships and ports but which also provide for the imposition of criminal sanctions, which we will have to wait to be debated and approved in this House.
The Commission proposal is especially necessary in order to clarify the new international instruments adopted last year by the International Maritime Organisation.
The tragic events of 11 September showed that every production sector, mode of transport or building can easily fall prey to a terrorist attack.
It is nevertheless important that the EU does not needlessly rush to adopt measures but instead calmly keeps to the framework of the timetable that has already been drawn up by the IMO, which, as it is, is very rigorous and demanding.
In today’s changing world I see international cooperation as being of priority importance in order to improve security for ships and port facilities and a far better alternative to the unilateral measures that were adopted earlier on.
I share Commissioner Bolkestein’s concern regarding the possible negative effects on trade that unilateral security measures would have.
The Commission proposal does not really differ in content from the IMO instruments that have been drawn up exclusively for international shipping.
The power of decision to apply measures to individual countries’ domestic transport systems must in any case remain with the Member States, which are best placed to assess the situation.
The rapporteurs’ work in close cooperation with the Commission and the Council will allow – I hope – this text to be approved at first reading.
There are many amendments, which are enormously technical, which are intended, if I have understood correctly, to bring the Commission’s proposal closer to the text resulting from the activities of the Council which for its part has held many meetings on this project, in the presence of experts.
We will naturally present this study to Parliament and the Council and where necessary we will draw up the relevant proposals in accordance with it.
In summary, the Commission can accept 62 amendments in full, 5 partially, and rejects, as I have said, just 2.
These figures clearly reflect the cooperation which has taken place, which I am glad about and in relation to which I would like to thank once again all the honourable Members for your work throughout these months. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
Even though there were some demands that we could not get the Council to accept, I therefore recommend that all Members of this House should accept the result of the conciliation procedure and express their satisfaction with what has been achieved.
Considerations of legal certainty for ports, port operators, and port workers mean that the European Union needs its first basic directive on ports.
Let me issue a warning to those Members of this House who advocate rejection: if that were to happen, the Commission would be entitled to examine the situation in each individual port.
The Council wants to follow the subsidiarity principle and leave this in the competence of the Member States.
Our side was nonetheless able to gain acceptance for the idea that the Member States should be able to ensure that the competent authority can insist on prior authorisation for the provision of port services, so this is still left to the Member States’ discretion.
Parliament’s delegation has also achieved acceptance for the requirement that authorisations be amended or abrogated where the criteria for authorisation or for the social security regulations to apply are not complied with in substance.
In all other cases, the legislation of the individual States is to be applicable.
I would like to note, by way of summary, that this outcome from the conciliation procedure is a great success for all of us in view of the wholly negative stance initially adopted by the Council.
I would like, in particular, to thank the Italian presidency of the Council and the Vice-President for enabling us to take this problematic dossier to what I regard as a good conclusion.
What is at stake here is ability of the EU’s ports to compete, being as they are crucially important as nodal points in the trans-European networks.
The House is being asked to vote on a compromise approved by the Conciliation Committee.
This compromise does not mean a complete liberalisation of port services, as I have heard throughout the previous debate.
Ladies and gentlemen, every day we talk about wanting transport which respects the environment and which is sustainable, that we want to promote short sea shipping, so we cannot then vote the next day against a measure which is going to facilitate the development of this type of transport.
We have had three years of negotiations and I simply believe that rejecting this initiative would cause very serious problems for transport policy in the coming years.
I would like to remind you of some of the aspects of the text which will be put to the vote on Thursday.
The initial proposal was limited to rules applicable within a given port.
Well, Parliament firmly insisted on the need to address the issue of competition between ports and this point, which the Commission accepted, has been corrected in the final text, in agreement with the Council.
The Commission’s initial proposal referred to self-handling with on-board and land-based personnel.
It is not going to function with the great trans-ocean forms of transport because of the type of goods transported and the type of ship used.
We are therefore talking about something that is key to the development of short distance transport.
This issue only affects those ships which have regular routes, that is, once again, the issue of short sea shipping.
What remains in the end is the minimum, but it is a vital minimum, and I would like to insist on this point, vital in order to be able to promote cabotage, essentially cabotage within the European Union.
It would be strange if this Parliament, which has been at the vanguard of opening up these services, came along tomorrow and said, for incomprehensible reasons – to me at least – that there must be an exception from this long line of action to open up all these services to competition and that the exception was port services.
Protecting employment rights, where there is an express provision in the directive that we cannot have a lower level of protection than that which exists in each Member State.
I, for my part, think that this compromise which we have before us serves the interests of industry to a certain degree in that there are other service providers – it breaks the monopoly and there is greater choice – and it serves the workers, because in this way new companies are being created and new companies mean new jobs.
German ports, at any rate, are currently enjoying impressive growth, and doing so without this directive.
This week, this House has had the great opportunity to make it clear that, far from us being the Council’s agent, our primary obligation is to people, citizens and workers.
Let me remind you: at second reading stage, all of us in this House, by very, very large majorities, joined together in calling for three important things: we wanted the ports’ financial relations to be made transparent and put on a regulated footing, and that has, in part, been achieved.
Being a special public task, pilotage services do not belong in this directive, but we have not managed to keep them out of it.
One very important point is that we wanted self-handling to be restricted to the ship and its crew, but with discretionary approval and with decent conditions in terms of social security and labour law.
If, then, you want the pilots, who guide ships safely into our ports, to continue to have obligations in terms of safety and the environment, then you have to reject what has come out of this conciliation procedure.
If you want to deny social dumping a foothold in our ports, and want instead to enable qualified workers to operate under good social conditions; if you want social harmony to be maintained in our ports, then you have to reject this directive.
I am all in favour of looking at these compromises to see if the glass is half full or half empty, but, in this instance, the glass is not half-full of water; it contains just a few drops for Parliament, and I can tell the Council that it cannot be in Parliament’s interest to start by taking up a firm position and then being satisfied with little.
That is why I strongly urge – as does my group – that we reject the whole thing. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, after two and a half years of debates, amendments, demonstrations and votes until well into the night, there is now a compromise proposal before us.
It will not have escaped anyone’s attention that this topic has unleashed strong emotions; that is quite clear from the dockworkers’ demonstrations here in Brussels, and even in Rotterdam.
The demonstrators have made good use of their democratic right to inform us as MEPs fully and effectively.
This is very unfortunate.
Pilotage services have been included after all, together with the option of self-handling, which, to my mind, is too restricted.
In Parliament, we have very little say in the quality of the work.
Pledges of that kind should also be possible elsewhere.
In short, we are making progress, and the Liberals will be predominantly voting in favour. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, seagoing shipping and ports offer more scope for abuse than many other businesses.
Those countries do not only differ in terms of legislation, but, above all, in terms of reward of labour, working conditions, safety and the extent of environmental protection.
For many years in seagoing shipping, we have known the phenomenon of flags of convenience, whereby ships of European owners are given a registration in a developing-world country.
Enterprises in ownership of EU citizens compete with each other through the international jungle.
If the European Union wishes to harmonise rules for port labour, these must be geared to eliminating unfair and dangerous competition per group of ports that serve a common hinterland.
This problem is particularly acute for the ports surrounding the North Sea, from Dunkirk, in France, via the Belgian and Dutch ports to Hamburg, in Germany.
In the previous part-session, this Parliament stated that something should, in fact, be done about this by means of a port directive, one that would offer the highest level of protection for registered and qualified port labour across Europe, and which would prevent shipping accidents as a result of faults during loading, as happened with the Danish freight ship in February.
A port directive of that kind would be in keeping with a number of recent environmental measures of the European Union that are aimed at making it more difficult to dump shipping waste and freight residues at sea and, in time, at keeping away single-hulled tankers from European ports.
Instead, the Commission has proposed a directive that leads to the opposite.
By hindering, or reducing, existing protection of registered port labour against unfair competition at Member State level, this competition is only set to increase.
Maybe the port handling costs of goods will be reduced as a result, but these only formed a negligibly small part of the production costs in most cases anyway.
Parliament corrected these plans both at first reading two years ago and at second reading in March.
On 29 September, most of those objections had suddenly evaporated.
The fact that a directive is coming into being was suddenly more important than its exact content.
On various occasions, port labourers in the present and future Member States have made it clear in great numbers that they find this unacceptable.
Under these conditions, the directive is counterproductive and should therefore not be adopted.
This proposal should be rejected on Thursday. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, much as I should like to thank the rapporteur, the Commissioner and others for the work that they have done, it has not yielded the desired outcome.
The Green Paper on ports was clear, because it was determined to tackle competition among ports, particularly unfair competition and the implications of this unfair competition on the environment when new terminals are built.
Ultimately, we ended up with a directive on competition in ports and the opening up of markets to new service providers.
It does not include the compulsory authorisations that had been requested for new service providers with regard to social, environmental and other requirements, such as safety.
A definition of self-handling is missing, because reference is made to own crews, which leaves plenty of scope in current labour relations at most ports.
Taking all views into consideration, we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance reject this compromise as a proposal that fails to strike the right balance.
Although we were automatically in agreement with the search for increased efficiency in order to face the challenge of becoming competitive in a globalised economy, we did not want this to be done in any old way, with a single and final objective: the total liberalisation of port services.
Technical, social and environmental security must in fact remain the objective to be preserved, whatever the reform implemented.
Now, if pilotage has been, on the surface of it, preserved from unbridled competition, the freedom given to each state seems to us to be too great and to contradict the notion of public service, a characteristic that the services in question are acknowledged as possessing, whether by the states themselves or by the Court of Justice of the European Union.
Where self-handling is concerned, social and environmental security could, in the same way, be impaired by shipowners directly employing their own equipment and their own staff, who would be inexperienced, untrained and employed on a casual basis.
In conclusion, we reject the creation of ports of convenience and self-handling at terminals. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Flanders, thousands of Flemish dock workers’ families are anxiously waiting this week to see how next Thursday’s vote on the liberalisation of port services will turn out.
The fact is that, for thousands of Flemish dockworkers, liberalisation in this context means nothing more than unemployment and social misery.
The liberalisation of particularly energy and rail transport has shown in Flanders, for example, but also in Great Britain, that it can also adversely impact on competition, job quality and the provision of services.
Liberalisation of this kind could have pernicious consequences for our ports, their competitiveness, their employment and their provision of services.
I hope that on Thursday, all MEPs, whatever group or persuasion they belong to across the political spectrum, will consider the precarious situation of the dockworkers in Antwerp, Zeebrugge and Ghent, but also in the other European ports.
I therefore hope that there will be a massive vote against this report. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, you began the debate on the by explaining to us that the maritime environment was an area of uncontrolled freedom, a kind of jungle that needed to be subjected to rules.
What was the case where security was concerned is, unfortunately, all the more the case in the social sphere.
In these conditions, self-handling amounts to introducing the social jungle of the maritime sphere into our ports.
Naturally, that is how dock workers – and not simply dock workers but also dock work companies throughout Europe – have realised that the desire was now to engage in competition through social dumping, that is to say by resorting to the social break-up of an entire profession, whether it be public or private.
If the ability existed to restore order and also to harmonise the fiscal and social conditions in all our own countries – and this is valid not only in the maritime sphere but also in that of heavy goods vehicles – then, certainly, a directive such as this would acquire credibility, and it would then be possible to talk about fair competition.
Unfortunately, it is, rather, a form of social break-up that you are proposing to us and, in these conditions, we cannot take the risk. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Jarzembowski, thank you for the work that you have done, but I will not support the compromise, because I see this compromise as lacking an essential link, namely that authorisations should be used in EU ports.
We had approved this in Parliament at second reading, but it is not included in the compromise.
Both at first and at second reading, we managed to improve this licensing system.
Despite this, Mr Jarzembowski, I have a feeling that we could have gone a little further during conciliation, and that we perhaps should have spent all of our time creating a better text on that score too.
I am, in any case, in favour of free port services.
In my opinion, everyone should be able to offer their services there, but these free services should be counterbalanced by a licensing system which should be regulated in such a way that we can make our own demands in the areas of environment, public services and, last but not least, social legislation.
In the Flemish ports, relations among dock workers, employers and dock installations have deteriorated a great deal over the past eighteen months.
Whatever the result of next Thursday’s vote may be, this worsening situation will need to be addressed with or without a directive.
I would therefore ask everyone involved to gather around the negotiating table in order to discuss the future of our ports and to ensure that it is not jeopardised, with or without a directive. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, this is, indeed, not the first time that this directive has been debated.
This problem also affects professions other than dock work, particularly those of the inshore and other pilots excluded in the first version and those connected with towing, which are subject to constraints in relation to the port authorities.
Uncertainty is in this way being brought to bear upon all the qualified staff who until now have contributed to port security: the dockers who fulfil a very important economic task in difficult conditions by preserving security; and nautical services such as inshore and other pilotage services, universally recognised as services of general interest.
All these sectors should be considered as essential partners contributing to the objective of maritime security and sustainable development.
The proposal submitted to us cannot but have serious social consequences in the ports, and where employment too is concerned.
These people have arguments we have to listen to.
In conclusion, I am anxious, finally, to say that I think it is impossible to reflect upon this directive by removing it from the context of our debates on maritime security.
Our Parliament has come out in favour of a temporary committee of inquiry on the .
We have had a lot of discussion in this House of the various measures in favour of maritime security and, Commissioner, you have put forward rational proposals.
Personally, I never forget that, in the various meetings I was able to have on the French coast, all the maritime professionals always insisted, following the damage caused by the , that security began in the ports.
In the interests of security, employment and the sustainable development of the European ports, we have to reject this document. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our ports are of enormous importance to our prosperity, and they form the linchpin for world trade.
Unfair competition among ports should therefore be avoided, and we can imagine a directive to this effect, but it has not been drafted yet.
However, the fight should not lead to a lack of security, social dumping and environmental pollution in ports.
In this light, the European Parliament would have liked to make self-handling dependent on a real compulsory authorisation and omit the pilotage services from the competitive battle.
It is therefore very unfortunate that neither the Council&#160;nor&#160;the Commission acted upon the compromise that was struck in Parliament.
We are in favour of a breach in social tradition in our ports.
This push for liberalisation is currently presenting more risks than benefits in our ports.
We will therefore vote against it, and do so emphatically. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I very much identified with Parliament’s position at second reading.
If I compare this with the end result of the conciliation procedure, it is evident that the agreement with the Council focuses on elements other than those regarded as the most important by Parliament.
The Europe of the nineteenth century, the Europe which reflects the Chicago of the Twenties, is not my Europe.
I would like to congratulate the Commissioner on having maintained the objective of modernising our ports, the will of the rapporteur and the will of certain parliamentary groups which have defended, despite the absolutely unacceptable pressure they have received from certain workers in European ports, the modernisation and competitiveness of our ports. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, there is a world of difference between the words ‘must’ and ‘may’.
The Directive that is now in front of us following conciliation states that ports may introduce a system of authorisations, and then, in particular, for ports doing loading and unloading work themselves.
The Jarzembowski report, which we adopted earlier at second reading, still states that ports introduce a system of authorisations.
A significant part of the compromise text differs from the text adopted at second reading.
The difference between ‘may’ and ‘must’ has significant implications for ports and dockers in Europe.
A non-compulsory authorisation system promotes unfair competition, which can harm quality of employment in the ports that do have a good authorisation system.
Second-class ports would remain, and the unfair competition resulting from this could harm quality of employment in the well-organised ports.
This was conceded in the conciliation procedure.
It has thus become a bad example of liberalisation.
It will surprise no one, therefore, having heard my speech, that my group has no choice but to vote against this directive. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to thank Mr&#160;Jarzembowski for his hard work regarding this matter.
The proposed compromise is a cautious step towards opening up the market in port services and increasing transparency in ports.
Including pilotage services within the scope of the directive is problematic, especially in areas that are sensitive in terms of safety at sea and the environment.
The compromise honed in the conciliation procedure is, however, acceptable in this respect.
It is important to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of ports as transport hubs in the development of the transport system throughout the Union.
This compromise is a cautious step in the right direction. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am somewhat amazed.
You, Commissioner, have argued that we will, by means of this directive, influence transport policy towards sustainability.
What you said was completely one-sided, and, as you said, it indicates that you want to let liberalisation advance.
Then it will be perfectly clear that we can never find a common denominator, because, for you, liberalisation means nothing more than cutting costs in the economic sphere.
Turning to the port workers and the pilots, you have, in the course of the debate we have had – and Mr&#160;Jarzembowski knows this too – met some of our expectations, but not others.
At the end, after the conciliation process, absolutely none of the people affected are on your side – none whatever!
For that reason, we can do no other than reject it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we do want more transport by sea, but not if it is unsafe.
As many speakers have already said, this Directive is indeed bad news for dockers, because there are no minimum social standards that are enforceable throughout the EU.
In fact, this is a bad example to the world.
We as Europeans are always trying to outdo others with our social standards.
There have also been more than&#160;60 near collisions.
To make savings on this is to make savings on safety, and to play with lives and the environment. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, if the European Parliament is to be taken seriously, it must stick to its previous decisions and vote against the outcome of the conciliation.
None of the important changes adopted by Parliament at second reading of the Commission’s proposal can in any way be found in the conciliation document.
If Parliament votes in favour of the proposal, the shipowners will interpret it themselves and be free to decide at whim whether to use seamen or port workers, just as entrepreneurs and shipowners will be able to sit loose to hard-won rights and collective wage agreements.
Liberalisation is also partly responsible for undermining port security at a time when major investments are otherwise being made in securing the ports against terrorism.
In Denmark, it is not only the case of the 1&#160;500 or so port workers that is on the agenda.
That is the principle involved in how far the EU should go in harmonising, and intervening in, wage and working conditions.
This, then, is the great objective towards which we are progressing together.
Let me remind you of Article 12.
I admit that I am still struggling with the directive, and with myself, but will the people at home understand that? &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are debating a proposal for a directive the content of which is ambitious.
I wonder whether we all agree on the importance of ports in terms of organising European transport.
Mine is that ports are fundamental to the organisation of European transport, and I am not referring to maritime transport, but to transport as a whole and, essentially, road transport.
When we talk about whether it is possible to operate a sustainable transport system it is clear that, if we do not accept that one of the conditions for the sustainability of transport is a huge increase in the capacity of ports, we are moving in the opposite direction.
The amendments adopted by Parliament during its reading of the report were a serviceable compromise between those who want a total liberalisation of port services and those who think we should take account of our workers.
Unfortunately, little remains of Parliament’s amendments, which means that European port workers will face an uncertain future if the compromise is adopted.
In Scandinavia, we have seen examples of port workers refusing to handle goods from ships on which the working and wage conditions were not in order.
Those campaigning for liberalisation say that not so many people are in any case employed on modern ships and that the Port Directive will not therefore mean fewer port workers.
When we talk about security in EU ports, there are two considerations to be borne in mind, namely the security of people who work in the ports and the security of the goods handled.
We divide up the amount of goods and, in that way, ensure optimum use of the different ports, at the same time as preserving free competition.
If, moreover, the port workers are to be given help, we can give it them by voting against this bad document from the conciliation committee. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I cannot agree with the aspects approved in the conciliation meeting between Parliament and the Council with regard to the Directive on the liberalisation of the port services market.
A drawback of the proposal was the risk of social dumping arising.
Parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, has been working actively towards eradicating the problems with the proposal.
I asked myself, therefore, whether I should support this result or not.
If I compare the result of the Directive with the status quo regarding the legislation on European ports, I conclude that it is better to adopt this proposal than reject it.
In a nutshell: it does have its advantages, and the risk of social dumping is slight.
In addition, the Member States are able to take effective measures to prevent problems, where that is still necessary, by means of legislation.
The main advantage for European ports is the existence of a legal framework that enables clarity and transparency in relations between port authorities and service providers.
I attach great importance to transparency in the financing of ports, which plays a necessary part in the creation of a level playing field with regard to state aid.
I see this Directive as the beginnings of European legislation in this field, and envisage that, given productive dialogue between all the interested parties – port authorities, service providers and workers’ organisations – we can continue to work on improving the legislation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to give my express support here to those fellow Members who said earlier in this debate that one of the important reasons that this Directive – this compromise – is unacceptable to us is the whole arrangement regarding self-handling.
The fact that the compromise gives the Member States freedom of choice as to whether or not to introduce authorisations for self-handling – this form of subsidiarity – makes the whole authorisation system a hollow shell – this much is now clear to everyone.
After all, if a Member State is not obliged to introduce an authorisation system, pernicious competition will inevitably follow, which will have a negative impact on working conditions, on the social protection of dockers, on safety in ports.
By that I do not mean ports in Italy, because they have an authorisation system, nor those in Spain, because they, too, have an authorisation system, but ports that have a rather casual approach to job protection and safety.
I think that, if we want to open up port services to competition on the internal market, we must firstly and most importantly lay down rules for social and ecological etiquette that apply to all countries without exception.
That is going much too far, in my opinion.
This compromise will be responsible for pernicious competition via social dumping, and unsafe working environments in our ports.
In addition, it is a slap in the face for all those dockers who have demonstrated against this Directive several times and who, furthermore, just this morning handed our own President of the European Parliament more than 20&#160;000 signatures to make it clear that they disapprove strongly of this Directive.
I therefore call on all those fellow Members who are still in two minds – from the Netherlands or Italy, perhaps – to reject this Directive, this unsatisfactory compromise, and to set to work on a satisfactory arrangement, one benefiting not only the ports, but especially the dockers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, although the outcome of this conciliation procedure differs from the Commission’s initial proposal, it is still quite negative.
In fact, on the basis of this position, by means of what is known as ‘self-handling’, the shipping company could provide one or more port services for itself, provided that it uses its own seamen and equipment.
This situation will cause serious problems for the job stability of port service workers, will hamper the coordination of interactive on-board and on-shore operations and will help to create conflict and a breakdown in solidarity between the established workforce in ports and ships' crews.
With the various options given to the Member States for imposing more restrictive rules if they wish, there is a possibility that, in future, we will have ports of convenience, in which everything, or almost everything, is permitted, with the inevitable consequences for competition between ports and for maritime safety itself.
Hence our vote against this proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will be rejecting this Directive, as it is high time we created a social Europe as well as an economic and financial Europe.
For that reason, the Verts/ALE Group says a wholehearted ‘no’ to this Directive on ports.
Dockers in Antwerp, Rotterdam, and also Hamburg or Genoa must be given the guarantee that ships will be unloaded in a professional, safe manner throughout the EU under pay conditions that are not pushed down by social dumping.
Hence, the European Parliament must now also reject the Directive in its entirety. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the points of view in this dossier are well known.
The Conciliation Committee came to an agreement on this, and I admit that some of the sharp edges on which people can get hurt in a liberalisation process have been filed off, including by limiting self-handling to seafaring personnel.
As has already been said repeatedly by fellow Members, there was indeed a majority in Parliament in favour of imposing compulsory authorisations for service providers and self-handling.
If the Member States diverge in the way they use the possibilities they are given, there is of course a risk of distortion of competition.
We do not like that idea, and therefore I do not agree with this draft text.
I have sympathy for those who earn their living in the ports.
I shall therefore be voting against the draft.
You know that a discussion has been underway for some time on the question as to whether the Belgian ports act – known as the ‘Major law’ – is in accordance with the treaty rules on the free movement of services.
I strongly advise you good people to take control in this sphere in good time, before others have to set to work on it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur and the Commissioner for the debate they have both facilitated.
It failed to exclude self-handling or to ensure compulsory authorisations – the 'must or may' issue – and it failed, in particular, to exclude marine pilots from the scope of the directive.
British Labour MEPs are also very concerned that important British groups are objecting to this proposal, and we should all be concerned when British marine pilots and, in particular, British ships' officers are recommending that this proposal be voted down on safety grounds alone.
We owe it to British jobs, the future of investment in our ports and above all safety to reject this proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, by rejecting the text that has been proposed to us on port services, I am expressing my personal opinion but I am also acting as a mouthpiece for the objections that have been expressed by a large number of trade union organisations.
It also opens the way for all sorts of abuse by the crooks involved in maritime transport.
Ship owners can make workers, who are taken on without guarantees, work for low pay and subject them to whatever working conditions they want.
This will result in secure employment in port areas being axed and an increase in the number of workers with insecure jobs, who are badly paid, over exploited, inexperienced, with all the threats that this entails for the environment and safety.
We reject this directive.
I must therefore vote against the Conciliation Committee’s joint text for a European Parliament and Council directive on market access to port services.
I am not opposed to either economic liberalisation or liberalisation of the regulations, but I do not consider the intention of the directive to be present in the proposal now being tabled.
In the Nordic countries, we have worked for a long time to bring about good rules and working conditions in shipping and to resist social dumping.
By rejecting this proposal, the European Parliament is defending workers and the social and labour law regulations governing port workers. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner&#160;de&#160;Palacio, a great deal has been said and, frankly, I would like to ask all the Members a question.
Frankly, without the directive that we are about to vote on, there would be nothing stopping the individual Member States&#160;–&#160;as has been the case thus far&#160;–&#160;from adopting national legislative measures to open up the market in port services without any legal framework.
These are the reasons why, for example, all the workers’ unions in my country, Italy&#160;–&#160;CGL, CISL, UIL&#160;–&#160;are asking us to adopt the compromise text.
It was achieved via social dialogue and, if necessary, is adapted via social dialogue to the situation of the various other Belgian ports.
This social dialogue offers employers a guarantee that their requirements, too – as regards employment, social services, safety and quality – will be included in a social agreement.
One result of this system is that the port of Antwerp is number one in conventional loading, and that is the most labour-intensive loading activity.
Antwerp has earned that ranking despite the fact that its dock work is perhaps a little more expensive than in other ports, but, on the other hand, this dock work is very productive, very safe and of excellent quality.
They are seeking in the Directive possibilities of preserving the present system as far as possible via Belgian legislation.
Thirdly, they believe that the Directive was based on the ports where the regime is least strict, where poorly organised, poor-quality dock work is carried out.
Commissioner, the correct procedure would have been to subject European port activities to compulsory authorisations regulating the most important elements in the field of the social framework, safety, training, organisation of work and environment.
A compulsory system such as this would have not only made self-handling possible, but also offered guarantees of a stricter operating procedure in all the European ports.
The ports that already have effective regulations and a safe system are actually being penalised in favour of the much laxer attitude of other ports.
Furthermore, Article 16 states that ‘the provisions of the present Directive shall not in any way affect the national rules in the field of professional qualifications and training requirements, employment and social issues provided that they are compatible with Community legislation’.
If we look at the issue of pilotage, it also says that – we know that pilotage has a very important component and that it therefore requires certain types of supplementary guarantee: ‘the competent authorities may recognise the obligatory nature ...’.
In the next 10 years we need European cabotage to increase its capacities by at least 40% because anything which does not go by sea will go by road.
However – and I would ask you once again to reconsider the issue – it is not a problem of security we are discussing here, but a problem of union forces.
We are currently dealing with the problem of a form of transport which is genuinely sustainable over time, an efficient form of transport which we need in the European Union for our competitiveness and also for our citizens and for the development of all our countries and for the improvement of the environment.
Is the Commission confident that the ISPS Code (International Ship and Port Security Code) of 2002 will be implemented in the EU on time (1 July 2004) and that all non-EU jurisdictions, especially major flags of convenience, will be in a position to enforce its conditions? &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, on 12&#160;December 2002, the International Maritime Organisation’s (IMO’s) diplomatic conference adopted a new Chapter XI-2, on special measures to promote maritime safety, as part of the IMO’s SOLAS (Safety of Life at Sea) Convention, together with a new code named the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS Code), which seems to be of fundamental importance to the establishment of a global maritime safety system.
The purpose of this draft is to introduce these new instruments into Community law, together with the necessary interpretative provisions.
On 9&#160;October 2003, the Council (Transport) unanimously adopted a general approach to this draft.
In accordance with the relevant regulations of the ISPS Code, it will therefore be possible for any vessel that, after 1&#160;July 2004, does not comply with the safety arrangements laid down in these international instruments to be refused access to any port in a state that is a member of the IMO. &#160;&#160; Mr Nielson, there was a long debate about this earlier this morning and you must accept that there is very little time between now and 1 July 2004 for all ships and ports to comply with the requirements of the ISPS Code, especially with the lack of total clarity at the moment.
Ultimately we will face the problem that it is one thing to have the right to deny access to our ports for ships that do not comply, but that, at the same time, the global spread of this whole idea will be a very strong disincentive for ships under other flags to continue to flout the standards.
As part of its fact-finding, the Commission has sent detailed questionnaires to current and future Member States with a view to gathering information on the legal and administrative rules and requirements within which the water sector operates.
Once the analysis is complete, the Commission will, of course, present its findings and set out its views on any possible additional steps to be taken, in full respect of Treaty guarantees for services of general economic interest and of environmental provisions. &#160;&#160; – It may perhaps have escaped your notice, Commissioner, that in Austria this issue has for some years now been a cause of immense commotion, which has resurfaced in the last few weeks.
The study analysed the possibilities of the Europe-wide use of protected entry procedures in regions of origin and examined how such procedures could allow a non-national to approach a potential host state outside its territory with an asylum claim and be granted a permit to enter that country.
The Commission has since noted, in its communications of March and June 2003, that protection capacities in the region of origin need to be consolidated and protection requests dealt with as closely as possible to needs.
Such measures could also facilitate more orderly arrival in the European Union.
Meanwhile, the current presidency hosted an experts' seminar in Rome on 13 and 14 October which further explored the European Council's mandate, focusing in particular on resettlement and protected entry procedures.
The Italian presidency intends that the November Justice and Home Affairs Council should adopt Council guidelines based on the conclusions of the Rome seminar, in order to provide the Commission with the necessary political guidance to prepare the report we shall be producing next June.
The Council has also produced inhumane proposals for border forces and for free zones in third countries where we should keep refugees seeking asylum.
As the honourable Member knows, some Member States are already doing this.
Resettlement schemes are already ongoing in at least five Member States.
The Commission intends to fully make good its commitment.
Despite the fact that it has already received some information regarding the specific use of ‘Supplier of Choice’, the Commission does not yet have all the details in this regard.
This is why the Commission intends to use the powers given to it by the regulation on the application of Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty in order to collect information that will allow it to adopt a position on the issue, in full knowledge of the facts.
As regards the question relating to complaints, I can say that the Commission has indeed received complaints regarding the ‘Supplier of Choice’, that will be looked into according to the standard procedures that the Commission follows in applying Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty.
As regards the number of complaints, Mr&#160;Corbett, as well as their origin, of course, the Commission considers that the principles of good administrative management impose on it an obligation of confidentiality regarding precisely their number and origin.
Question No 38 by Claude Moraes (H-0660/03): Subject: Reconstruction of Iraq Could the Commission please detail the current situation of its assistance to the reconstruction of Iraq? &#160;&#160; . – As Parliament is aware, the Commission communication adopted on 1 October 2003 proposed that EUR 200 million from the European Union budget be earmarked for reconstruction assistance in Iraq in 2003 and 2004.
I am glad to say that, with Parliament's help, this pledge was announced at the Madrid Donors' conference on 24 October 2003.
I remind you that the Commission communication set out four elements that are essential to the success of the reconstruction process: improved security, measures towards a political transition to an Iraqi government, the establishment of a multilateral umbrella for reconstruction, and cooperation on the part of Iraq's neighbours.
We have seen progress on three of these elements, but on security considerably more progress is needed for rapid implementation of the Commission's assistance for reconstruction to proceed.
For 2003 we have two goals: to help bridge the transition from the humanitarian phase to reconstruction, and to support the UN in fulfilling its mandate under Security Council Resolutions 1483 and 1511.
The EUR 40 million we have proposed for 2003 is therefore intended to provide for assistance to flow as rapidly as possible to support Iraq via the UN and its specialised agencies.
I can report that, building on the work done to date by ECHO, a first package of EUR 29 million has been set aside for the UN's work in water and sanitation, health, education, employment and income-generating schemes: all areas in which the UN has been active and where the UN's 4000 local agents are still working.
We therefore expect to channel the lion's share of the EUR 160 million proposed via this facility to support areas such as social safety nets, institution- and capacity-building, macro-economic management, the strengthening of Iraqi civil society and the protection and promotion of human rights and democracy.
This will, however, also depend on whether conditions in Iraq have in fact improved and on the prospects for implementation by UN bodies, NGOs and Iraqi ministries.
The EUR 200 million is money that has, so to speak, been 'vacuumed-up' in the neighbourhood.
Thus we are not taking money away from what we can and should do in Africa because of what we are doing in Iraq.
As to the second supplementary question, I can report that of the total EUR&#160;100 million for humanitarian assistance to Iraq mobilised for this year, we have made a detailed commitment for about EUR 70 million, and expect that most of the remaining money will be committed towards the end of the year.
It has to be noted that the actual work we are doing there is carried out by local people working for us or for the organisations we use as implementing agencies.
The transitional authority is there and it also has responsibilities for security, law and order and so on.
In the plenary debate of 4 September 2003 on the 'Application of the EU-Israel Association Agreement' the Commission was asked why it has not notified the Member States that the definition of territoriality that Israel applies to determine the origin of all its exports under that Agreement is illegal.
Commissioner Nielson replied that the Commission had already done what was asked when it published a notice to importers in November 2001.
In a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Communities in November 2001, the Commission informed the customs authorities of the Member States and European importers that Israel issues proof of preferential origin for products coming from places brought under Israeli administration such 1967.
As a follow-up to that notice, the customs authorities of the EU Member States are screening all imports from Israel in order to identify the unlawfully issued proofs of origin and return the proofs of origin concerned to Israel in accordance with the verification procedure provided for in Article 32 of Protocol 4 to the Agreement.
The Israeli replies, in the context of these verification procedures, do not distinguish between production in the settlements and production in the territory of the State of Israel.
According to Article 32 of Protocol 4 to the Agreement, entitlement to the preferences is refused if there is no reply to the request for verification within ten months, or if the reply does not contain sufficient information to determine the authenticity of the proof of origin in question or the real origin of the products.
Refusal of the preference gives rise to a customs debt which the customs authorities of the Member States must recover, since, under Community law, they are responsible for the collection of the custom duties which are the Communities' traditional own resources.
The EU takes every opportunity to find a solution to the problem of the imports of products from the Israeli settlements and considers that this issue should be resolved before amending the EU-Israel protocol on rules of origin for the extension of the pan-European cumulation of origin to the Mediterranean countries.
As to the creation of qualified industrial zones in the EC's trade relations with Jordan and Israel, the Commission is at the stage of carrying out a technical analysis and no conclusions have been drawn.
What the Commissioner has said is that he is leaving it up to the Member States to pursue those areas where preferential access has been granted illegally.
Among other things, I asked the Commission if it really does provide the Member States with sufficient legal and technical means to identify goods that are entering illegally.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for his suggestion for the next question because it would be interesting to discover which countries, for example, instead of requiring observance of the agreements, are endeavouring to ensure that the agreements and the interests of the European citizens are not respected. &#160;&#160; . – I do not have a list of those countries.
This must be followed up in a careful manner. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Nielson, the rules of origin are very clear, but the problem is that they are not respected by Israel.
For years, Israel has continued to treat illegal settlements established in occupied territory as if they were within its own territorial limits.
I do not think it is possible here to move on to a detailed discussion of the steps that might be envisaged, but this exchange of questions and answers does clarify the issue. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, misuse of rules of origin must result in repayment of duties.
If this does not take place, we shall have not only a fiscal, but also an ethical problem.
My question is as follows: has the warning notice to importers had any effect on the Member States that have a rather casual approach to the rules of origin?
There are always measures in place to declare Member States in breach. &#160;&#160; . – The remarks I made on technical analysis relate to the creation of qualified industrial zones in the European Community's trade relations with Jordan and Israel.
The Community is actively participating in the current Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative with more than EUR 1.6 billion pledged up to now: EUR 680 million on its own claims as a creditor and EUR 934 million as a donor to the HIPC Trust Fund.
The Commission would also like to recall that this participation represents much more than the minimum required by the HIPC initiative.
Over and above its expected participation as a creditor, the Commission has also earmarked EUR 60 million for the settlement of all the special loans that would remain due from least-developed ACP countries, after they have benefited from the full application of the HIPC terms.
It is also worth noting that most of the EU Member States have announced their intention to cancel 100% of the bilateral debt, beyond the HIPC terms.
This means that any further debt cancellation in HIPC countries will relate largely to multilateral institutions, non-Paris Club official creditors and the private sector.
At this point in time, it is also clear that the HIPC initiative has to be considered as a first important step towards long-term debt sustainability and that it will not be sufficient to ensure the beneficiary countries meet the Millennium Development Goals, especially in countries badly affected by HIV/AIDS.
At the latest ministerial troika meeting of the EU-Africa Dialogue, held in Rome on 10 November, which I attended together with the Irish Foreign Minister, it was agreed that discussions and the corresponding report of the issue of Africa's External Debt should be prepared as a matter of priority and that the experts meeting within the enlarged Troika should be held in the first quarter of next year.
Finally, the Commission has recently launched, as an element of the EU-Africa dialogue, a study on debt relief beyond the HIPC initiative, with the main objective of providing a solid base to assess the situation after the full application of the HIPC initiative.
This study should provide key elements for shaping, in coordination with Member States, the Union’s future debt policy.
I would add that the complexity of doing something with multilateral debt is much larger and makes anything there much more difficult politically in terms of burden sharing internationally, compared to the handling of bilateral debt.
Most donor countries that take their responsibility as a donor partner seriously have in fact more or less cancelled all the outstanding bilateral debt.
For the Commission it is important to note that our share of all this as a creditor is very limited, basically because we are a grant donor and do not lend money to our partners. &#160;&#160; The Irish Government is currently the only EU government currently 100% in favour of the cancellation of the poorest countries' debts.
Many people and organisations would like to see this policy promoted during the Irish presidency.
When we talk in Parliament and in the Committee on Development and Cooperation about trying to help developing countries, it has been recognised that cancelling the debt would be one of the most sensible ways of ensuring that we can actually help these countries.
However, I have to say that in 1995, when I was the Danish Minister for Development Cooperation, we announced something similar for the least-developed poor countries.
That is not so easy to do in practice.
What Ireland is doing is commendable and it might inspire other countries to do something similar.
The total amount earmarked in the 9th EDF National Indicative Programmes for support to projects and programmes in the field of governance represents around EUR 640 million, corresponding to about 10&#160;% of the overall allocations for the national indicative programmes.
Part of these allocations can be mobilised for projects aimed at strengthening the capacity of the parliaments of ACP countries.
A total amount of EUR 38.5 million is already committed, within existing governance programmes, for specific actions of support to the parliaments of ACP countries.
The delegations will be made aware of the possibility of supporting specific activities designed to increase the awareness and information of national parliaments on the implementation of the Cotonou Agreement, if requested by our partner countries.
In addition, the various programmes geared towards strengthening the trade negotiation capacities of the ACP, including the ongoing EUR 10&#160;million and EUR 20 million all-ACP facilities for WTO and economic partnership agreement negotiations, are also relevant as regards the promotion of training and awareness in relation to the role of parliaments in these matters.
The Commission has already contacted the European Parliament in the past with a view to helping them build up a network of ACP parliamentarian correspondents in order to enhance their involvement in trade matters.
We are interested in doing everything possible in this area.
The 9th EDF financial protocol provides EUR 4 million to allow for the participation of parliamentarians from ACP countries in the activities of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly, which is a key institution of the Cotonou Partnership.
It will provide this support over a period of two-and-a-half years.
The strengthening of the structure of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly, which now includes three thematic standing committees, necessitates additional financial resources to allow for effective ACP participation.
To take into account these additional needs, the European Commission intends to propose a decision of the ACP-EU Council of Ministers to increase funds for the JPA to an amount of around EUR 6 Million, in accordance with Article 8 of the Financial Protocol.
All these initiatives should make it possible for national and regional parliaments to access some of the resources needed to ensure their effective participation in cooperation. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner, for a comprehensive and wide-ranging answer.
Would you agree with me, Commissioner, that support for parliaments is an area of our governance and democracy activities which has been somewhat neglected in the past?
I am interested in the fact that some countries are already putting into their national indicative programmes a priority for parliamentary training and capacity-building, but out of 78 countries, if we are honest only a handful have made that kind of priority clear.
I would also like to ask what exactly you suggest that we, as parliamentarians, can do in cooperation with the Commission to ensure that governments make parliamentary activity more of a priority. &#160;&#160; . – It would be difficult to find a better organised lobbying group to promote exactly that than the institutional Joint Parliamentary Assembly itself.
My worry is more related to the weak character of the inclusion, consultation or real participation of parliaments in the debate at national level, and in the decision-making process regarding national strategies.
It is a great step forward that we are investing so heavily in engaging civil society, but to create a civilised society, parliaments are necessary, otherwise NGOs tend to see themselves as neo-governmental organisations because they have been hurt and parliaments – and especially oppositions – are kept in the dark.
I always make this point when I am informing our ACP partner countries that now we have this ability to fund NGOs, civil society and non-state actors.
We have similar views on this and we should continue to help each other in this work. &#160;&#160; It is stated that in the second part of question time each Commissioner will answer for half an hour.
However, I can say that in selecting the beneficiaries for Community funding, the Commission considers and assesses the main activity for which the funds are requested.
I would add that compulsory abortions – to which the question refers – as a means of population planning is not seen as a feature in the work of any of the organisations the Commission is funding. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I have a quite specific supplementary question for the Commissioner.
I just wanted to ask you, Commissioner, whether the expression ‘reproductive health’ includes abortion or excludes it. &#160;&#160; . – We are not able or willing to add or subtract anything from the internationally-established Cairo consensus.
You will have to take my word for it, Mr&#160;Posselt, that we are very careful about sticking to the balance and substance of the Cairo consensus. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Commissioner stated that the Commission is very cautious in its relations with reproductive health programmes.
How will the Commission, however, ensure that women in less developed countries also enjoy an essential human right, the right to make decisions about their own bodies and the right also to make choices regarding abortion?
In other words, how will the Commission support NGOs that protect such alternatives as these and their projects in developing countries?
We support governments and organisations within the UN system and others which are indeed assisting women to protect their rights and safeguard their lives in any area relating to reproductive health.
I would not like to make any choices on this matter.
Abortion is not seen in any of the organisations we are supporting as an instrument in family planning.
The Commission is currently waiting for further information on these events and is attentively following the handling of the situation by the Albanian authorities.
The Commission will take any step it considers appropriate following a detailed analysis of the situation. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner, for your reply.
If our turn is never to be reached, we should be told to put down a written question to the Commissioners.
As you will appreciate, I have had to read the Rules of Procedure, Rule 43, the annexes, the guidelines, the precedents, the history of Question Time, the casuistry and I can assure you that the second part is dedicated to specific questions to Commissioners and they take up one hour, which can be divided between three or between two.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 50 to 91 will be reply to in writing(1).
Fighting cancer has been one of the Commission’s major public health priorities.
Estimates suggest, however, that the lives of about 75&#160;000 Europeans could be saved annually if best practices of cancer screening were made available to all citizens across the European Union.
Even more lives could be saved by extending these recommendations to the acceding countries.
The purpose of this proposal is to make recommendations for mass screening programmes on a sound scientific basis.
It aims to achieve further reductions of cancer-specific mortality in all Member States by establishing general principles of best practice, as recommended by cancer experts.
In addressing these questions, we must however remember that the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care fall under the competence of the Member States.
However, I should stress that these issues are essential preconditions for the success of any screening programme.
The proposal foresees a report on the implementation of cancer screening programmes, on the basis of information to be provided by Member States, no later than the end of the third year after the date of its adoption.
This report will be used to consider the need for further action.
In the follow-up the Commission will take a particular interest in the two main areas of the scientific developments.
First, the new tests which would improve or possibly even replace recommended methods, such as combining the pap test with testing for infection with high-risk human papilloma viruses or in other words, HPV testing, and, second, the new tests for cancers in other organs, such as PSA testing for prostate cancer.
As I have already had the opportunity to reiterate on other occasions, I believe that public health should increasingly be treated as a matter of primary importance in European policies, not least in view of the forthcoming enlargement.
This recommendation is the first step towards the harmonisation and coordination of policies regarding the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer.
The socio-economic impact is therefore enormous, not just in terms of the cost of treating and supporting patients but also in terms of the emotional strain involved.
Although the Member States are responsible for health policies, through their national health systems, it is unthinkable that such an important prevention campaign, in both the social and public health spheres, should remain a national or regional project dependent on the economic and cultural potential of each country.
The impact of this disease on society should be borne and coordinated at European level, guaranteeing equal opportunities for treatment and therefore good results across the board.
Of course, the new instruments for early diagnosis, before being offered at European level, should be examined and validated carefully by means of trials.
Last but not least, the excellence of ‘good practice’ in screening should be checked by analysing the mortality figures collected in all Member States and preferably entered in a European databank.
Financial resources must be mobilised to increase the number of diagnostic centres and ensure that the workload entailed in screening does not jeopardise the quality of the testing or increase waiting times, which would lead to a deterioration in the quality of care for patients already suffering from cancer.
This recommendation will allow Europe to take unified action against what is a widespread, cruel and socially destructive disease.
The urgent need for strategic action to combat cancer at European level is demonstrated by the alarming etiological fact that one European in four has or will have a malignant tumour in the course of their lives.
That is why I very much welcome the Commission’s initiative in recommending to the Member States that they introduce screening, the need for which is confirmed by scientific evidence.
I see it as absolutely scandalous that, for example, only eight Member States have to date started to offer national programmes for mammography screening to all, even though, according to WHO, this cuts the mortality rate by up to 36%, and even though the quality guidelines for this were presented as long ago as 1992.
If we are to really take this Council recommendation seriously, you cannot at the same time allow all the screening networks to be forced to close down their operations.
If you, the Commission, want to have real credibility in the fight against cancer, then you have to find a permanent place for screening in the new action programme on health.
The European Union has an enormous task ahead of it.
That means that we must not just persist with old, classical tests.
Combining a number of things that, according to this report, have been proved or are currently being proved, will enable us to do a much better job.
I am thinking of not only the HPV&#160;test, but also the test for prostate cancer in Luxembourg and the test for colon cancer.
Everyone knows somebody, either directly or indirectly, who has been or is being affected by cancer.
If we are going to tackle one of the biggest causes of death in the EU and the world, cancer screening is a critical tool in our battle against the disease.
The proposal to have mammography screening for breast cancer for women aged 50 to 69, faecal occult blood screening for colorectal cancer in men and women aged 50 to 74 and pap smear tests for cervical abnormalities between the ages of 20 and 30 are steps in the right direction in securing the health of Europeans and they should be welcomed.
However, screening cannot be seen in isolation.
Cancer networks and cancer registries are also vital in monitoring the impact of screening the population and changes in incidence and survival and mortality.
Public education and information are essential.
E-health and communication are essential in the world that we live in.
In conclusion, the recommendation before us today will help us in the battle against cancer.
Too many people in Scotland, Britain, the EU and the world, die from this disease.
First of all, lowering the recommended age for mammography screening for breast cancer from 50 to 40, was, I would say, obvious in light of the statistics on prevalence and current practice in several Member States.
This is also a matter of urgency: prostate cancer is the most common type of cancer in men and the second cause of death after lung cancer.
This blood test is very simple, routine and should be recommended from the age of 50 years in our text.
Health education, diet, the fight against smoking, sport, moderate exposure to the sun, like many measures at national level and behaviour at an individual level, will enable us to prevent these avoidable cancers from developing. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, if there is one certainty about cancer it is that early diagnosis increases the chances of cure.
Screening is therefore vital, in particular for people exposed to mutagenic or carcinogenic substances.
The Mussa report recalls these basic principles, and we will definitely vote in favour of this text.
The report also proposes to create cancer registers to target, in the first instance, population groups that show a high incidence due to environmental factors or those linked to dietary habits.
This route is fundamental, because we need to go further.
In the same way, the increase in prostate cancer in certain groups of farmers is directly linked to the use of pesticides.
Bowel cancer is a new area for screening, with new tests available.
Worldwide, 1.3 million people have lung cancer; 80% of these people die within a year of diagnosis.
We need to highlight these disparities.
Diagnosis means lives saved. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, you have already said that one in four European citizens, approximately one million a year, will die of cancer, one of the main causes of death in the European Union.
Your proposal to the Council on cancer screening was supported and backed by the representatives of all the political groups in the European Parliament.
The rapporteur said that younger and younger people are suffering from various new forms of tumours.
I thought it advisable to strengthen the Commission proposal with amendments intended to give citizens equal access to screening, treatment and monitoring services, based always on best practices.
Similarly, the need for counselling for those who ultimately contract cancer is proving to be a basic parameter in the final outcome of the disease.
Even saying the word 'cancer' is avoided in numerous countries.
Only thus will we limit deaths and illness while, at the same time, having a positive effect on all the other social repercussions.
To close, allow me to congratulate the rapporteur on his essential interventions in the original proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, while I appreciate the Commission's proposals are an attempt to find best standards and establish common best standards across Europe, that will have to be done on the basis of Member States agreeing to cooperate in this area.
It will require political commitment in many countries going far beyond the current commitment in terms of political will and financial investment in cancer testing and treatment.
It is important to have this debate.
The first five-year analysis of cancer trends in the Irish National Cancer Registry, published in February 2002, showed that 50% of patients with lung cancer received no cancer-specific treatment; 7% of those with leukaemia were not offered chemotherapy; two-thirds of patients in the Republic with last-stage stomach cancer received no cancer-specific treatment.
The Republic's two radiotherapy units are based in Dublin and Cork, so, while 39% of patients nationally have radiotherapy for breast cancer, only 24% living in the west of Ireland have it.
I appeal to the House to support the report before us and for the Commissioner to make it clear to all Member States where these appalling statistics apply that they must get to grips with this issue and save lives. &#160;&#160; . – First, I should like to thank the rapporteur and the Members of this House for their comments on this report.
As some Members have rightly stated to me in writing, after 15 years of continuous European Community efforts and involvement, this represents a significant and visible success for the Community in an important area of disease prevention and health promotion for European citizens.
The cancer screening recommendation will be taken forward by Member States' authorities and the Commission, once it is adopted by the Council.
Funding will be through ongoing projects within the previous 'Europe Against Cancer' programme and through the new public health programme.
For 2003, a number of cancer-related projects have been identified for funding.
Under the current contracts, a fourth edition of the European guidelines for quality assurance in mammography screening and the first comprehensive edition of European guidelines for best practice in cervical cancer screening will be finalised in 2004.
The Commission has already enhanced the prevention of diseases, including cancer, in the new health programmes draft work programme for 2004.
The draft specifically provides for a reference to cancer under the first and third strand objectives.
We will then have to decide how to best underpin the Commission's role in cancer prevention, while implementing the Council recommendation on cancer screening.
The points raised in the report and during the debate today have demonstrated clearly the importance of the issue.
The Commission can in principle support 11 amendments, namely Amendments 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 10, 11, 14, 15, 19, and 22.
In addition to general improvements in the wording of the text, the acceptable amendments concern, for example, improving compliance and equal access for European citizens, as well as enhancing the role of the Commission in following up the implementation of the Council recommendation.
The Commission cannot, however, support the remaining 19 amendments.
Exceptions, for instance for medical registries, must be in accordance with Article 8 of the directive.
Even though it makes the necessary distinction between evidence-based tests and new tests currently under evaluation or new variations of recommended tests, these new tests are already sufficiently covered by Articles 6(c) and (d).
To mention a few specific ones would immediately raise the question as to why only those tests have been singled out. &#160;&#160; – Thank you Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
In today’s society, much depends on networks and information systems.
It has become clear that we have to make a common effort to strengthen network and information security in Europe.
Now, nine months later, we are about to witness a first reading agreement on ENISA.
The European Parliament has contributed a lot to this process, as it has to the important telecom-related legislation over the past three years.
I am happy that Parliament has been able to overcome a number of difficult issues and to reach this compromise.
The compromise has to be confirmed today and tomorrow by this House, in order for the Telecom Council on 20 November 2003 to adopt a political agreement which would allow the Agency to start at the beginning of 2004.
I want to thank Parliament for the support it has given the Commission.
This support has enabled the Council to make concessions on the involvement of industry by introducing a permanent stakeholders' group.
Although not fully in line with what the Commission wanted in terms of composition and voting rules for the Management Board, the compromise proposal has made the management of the Agency considerably lighter and given the Executive Director the main management tasks.
The Commission has looked carefully at Parliament's compromise amendments and can accept them.
The present text from Parliament has clarified the objectives and tasks of the Agency.
In this specific case the Commission has, however, decided to accept a deviation from the proposed framework for regulatory agencies of December 2002, although that should not be considered as a precedent for future agencies.
I hope Member States will do their best to participate in the Management Board in order to make the Agency work successfully.
This Agency is a major step forward for Europe or at least for eEurope.
Member States have shown a willingness to cooperate actively on this issue in order to strengthen the internal market and to help the European citizens, businesses and administrations make full use of the networks and information systems.
This will be a signal both to stakeholders in Europe and to countries outside the Union that we take the issues of network and information security seriously and that Member States and the Commission, with the support of this House, are ready to act. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, the Presidency is aware that communications networks should be seen as key, vital infrastructure in modern economies and, as such, should be protected: their protection and their security is a matter of public interest.
The European institutions have, moreover, shown that they are aware of the urgent need for joint action that will enable the Agency to actually be operational from the beginning of 2004, as the Heads of State or Government recommended to the Spring 2003 European Council.
The Internet and communications technologies are certainly the innovations that have most characterised our society in recent years and that have influenced how the overwhelming majority of human activities are carried out.
However, over and above the obvious advantages, these technologies have introduced a series of problems into our society that are linked to the poor reliability of the instruments used.
Security requirements have changed rapidly over the past 20 years, in line with the development of networks and computers, which are ever more omnipresent in public and private life.
Broadband connections give the user the possibility of having a permanent connection to the Internet; new wireless applications allow access in practically any place and the possibility of connecting almost anything to the network&#160;–&#160;from personal computers to household appliances&#160;–&#160;continues and will continue to develop people’s use of the Internet.
Controlling security has become a difficult and complex task and the user is faced with problems of the availability, integrity, authenticity and the confidentiality of data and services on a daily basis.
The complexity of technology means that several components and elements have to interact and makes human behaviour a crucial factor.
The experience of recent years has taught us that sharing experiences and information, and, more generally, international cooperation, are the most efficient weapons for creating a mentality of security in the information society.
During its term in office, the Presidency has, therefore, made every effort to try to address this issue.
The proposal for a regulation that Parliament is looking at today is the result of greater agreement, by the institutions, on the need for a joint approach at European level regarding security of information.
A convergence of positions was arrived at following an increase in concern from both the public and the private sectors regarding crime and even phenomena that are only potentially dangerous linked to the new technologies.
One of the Agency’s objectives is to create a joint committee in Europe for issues relating to information security, which is necessary to guarantee the availability and security of networks and information systems in the Union.
From this point of view, the Presidency upholds the importance of creating a new culture of security, in which such a concept is not just taken to mean a cost for operators to bear, but as a real and genuine opportunity for market development, also to be achieved by boosting consumer confidence.
The Agency should be able to facilitate the enforcement of Community measures on security of networks and information.
This will strengthen the ability of the Community and of the Member States to react to problems of security of networks and of information systems, as well as to the development of the information society in general.
In fact, it is based on the knowledge that measures in the area of security of networks can only be tackled in close cooperation with all actors in the world of communications: with market operators and with users of communications services.
Our institutions have the opportunity to render an essential service to the public and to the European agencies by creating this Agency, for the consensus we hope for at first reading is possible, which is an indication of a great sense of responsibility and of deep understanding of the sensitive nature of this matter.
The negotiations were laborious and complex, but the positions of the Council and Parliament were gradually reconciled, evidence&#160;–&#160;and I repeat&#160;–&#160;of a great sense of responsibility.
I hope, therefore, that, in a few days, we will be able to celebrate the adoption of this regulation.
Last year 75% of European companies had no information security strategy.
In two companies out of every three information security is as yet not considered a strategic issue.
The problem over security is made worse by the fact that in a complex environment many components and partial systems have to function together.
The human factor is also a risk.
Information security thus affects everyone everywhere.
Three types of measure are in progress.
The Agency will promote the development of risk assessment and risk management methods.
International cooperation will be indispensable.
The Agency must be located somewhere where there are already viable top information technology communications systems, including wireless.
As rapporteur I have worked in favour of a compromise, which is that the Management Board should have representation from all Member States.
There is no doubt that a large Management Board will be a necessary forum of cooperation and a factor in creating direction.
Voting rules are slightly problematic.
The compromise package has been adopted by the committee, the Council and the Commission.
I expect that we will recognise our responsibilities and vote in its favour tomorrow.
The agency is an important factor in securing the networks and the information society.
The fact that Parliament and the Council have reached an agreement in the course of the first reading entails, in this case, losses for both Parliament and the industry.
In other words, the Council’s wheeling and dealingwith authorities that infringe legislation, and vice versa, continues without any democratic scrutiny.
Guarantee long-term transparency in the application procedure.
Exploit and develop the EU’s cooperation with the United States and other third countries.
Ensure that network security is achieved in accordance with the common guidelines that have already been approved in a Council resolution and that have been signed by ten of the Member States, together with six other countries.
I should also like to say to the Italian Presidency that a very peculiar procedure has taken place.
We have had to do an enormous amount of work together in order to succeed, and, thanks to the tremendous efforts of the Italian Presidency, we have indeed achieved that compromise.
This situation must not be repeated on any account, but we must all learn from it.
The Commissioner has just pointed it out.
A huge number of attacks have been committed on the physical infrastructure.
I am very pleased, therefore, that there is now clarity as regards the location of the Agency.
Fortunately, the Agency has also been given an executive role.
Privately, I still cannot explain why two-thirds of votes should be needed.
We still have not solved this mystery surrounding the Council.
After all, how can you talk about security without mentioning prevention?
My conclusion is that this is a first step: no more and no less.
I believe that it was on this basis that we then all decided to simply try and reach a compromise that would take us through the first five years, although we were always aware that, after those five years, we would make a real attempt at creating genuine European structures and doing away with the problems that will now be inherent in the Agency.
These have to do with voting rights, but also with the issue raised by the Member States, which will now, in fact, be represented by one person each.
I have confidence in the promises made by the Italian presidency of the Council, and I think it will remember them even after five years.
I hope that we will then all work towards making an early start on the audit that we have planned for – as early as after three years, if my memory serves me correctly – so that we can then make a start on rethinking the structures and defining the tasks more precisely.
The fact is that I suspect that this is not just about issues of security in the infrastructures – Members have already mentioned data security – but also about many other aspects that are equally affected, and initiating another wide-ranging discussion of these issues could be very interesting. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and also the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job, I am happy that a compromise has been reached, although the Council’s position did surprise me.
The Council cut the Commission proposal down to the bone and initially tried everything possible to prevent the efficient functioning of this Agency.
It is important that initiatives developed by Member States and businesses with regard to network security are well coordinated at European level.
In that way, the Agency can contribute to maintaining a healthy transatlantic relationship, which is essential in the sphere of security in general and network security in particular.
It is incomprehensible to the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party why the Council remains committed to a two-thirds majority of votes as the basis for decisions by the Management Board on, among other things, the work programme and the appointment of the Director.
Therefore this new centre of excellence to significantly step up cooperation between Member States in this area is of vital importance.
It is a tribute to my colleagues who have worked with the Italian presidency and with the Commission that we have managed to get an agreement.
I know you, Commissioner, will be looking for the best possible people and the best possible operating structures to put in place so that this agency really can contribute its expertise as soon as possible.
Today, more than 90% of companies and 44% of households in the EU have an Internet connection and more than two-thirds of Europeans use a mobile phone.
Our everyday systems are controlled by computers and communication networks, from public transport systems to the water that comes out of our taps at home.
It is no surprise, then, that security in this area is a huge concern for our citizens and businesses.
However, I have to say that I totally support the establishment of this one.
Nevertheless, I wish to make three points, which are also questions to the Commission.
Secondly, on the issue of cross-border cooperation, it is a fact that there is no systematic cross-border cooperation between the current Member States.
The information society technologies programme, however, is one area where we can help: research programmes are ongoing in that field, and there is also the stakeholders' group.
I should like you, Mr President, to pass on a message to the Bureau that these people deserve a chance to have a debate on the information society during the daytime.
The Commission can accept all the compromise amendments as voted on 17 November 2003 in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
None of the other amendments can be accepted. &#160;&#160; – Your modest request, Commissioner, is not as dangerous as the one that was put forward by a famous author.
Here, Members applaud when they hear certain proposals put forward that are deemed appropriate.
The debate is closed.
Our proposal aims to ensure consistency in dealing with shipments of waste.
We need to ensure environmentally sound management in relation to both shipments within the Community and exports from the Community to third countries.
The Commission proposal and the Communication on a thematic strategy on the prevention and recycling of waste clearly recognise the problem.
In relation to exports from the Community to third countries, I support the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment to further sharpen the regulation by making reference to both EU legislation and certain internationally-agreed guidelines, in particular those on ship recycling.
As a result, a great deal of waste is being transferred to other countries.
Shipments of waste can only be refused if the waste cannot be recovered in the importing country.
The problem in this whole debate is that waste recovery is not necessarily more sound in environmental terms.
The European Commission acknowledges this problem by remarking, among other things, that there are few Community environmental requirements for waste recovery operations.
In addition, the amendment of the Waste Framework Directive has been far too long in coming.
Since the problems arise primarily in connection with the shipment of waste, it is an obvious course of action to spell out these additional conditions in this Regulation.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is of the opinion that, until the European Commission formulates these conditions, the Member States should have the option of imposing their own conditions on waste recovery.
Articles&#160;12 and&#160;13 of this Regulation are not talking about a ban, but about the fact that shipments of waste may be undertaken by mutual agreement.
After all, we do not transport our sewage to other countries.
For this reason, I do not support Amendments&#160;95 and 98 by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which introduce implied permission for the country of import.
After all, this Regulation is not intended to facilitate trade in waste, but to enable environmentally sound waste management. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that this is a good proposal from the Commission which furthermore is coherent in general terms.
I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on this great work, although I do not agree with some of his points of view, because many of the amendments he has presented are aimed at restricting the free movement of waste.
However, Amendments 37 and 44 eliminate the principle of Community self-sufficiency established in the framework directive on waste and establish a single principle of national self-sufficiency.
The definition of these parameters is not the subject of this regulation and, if any of the amendments in this regard are approved, the PPE-DE Group will vote against the report.
I welcome the proposals in this report to tighten the definition of waste recovery, to encourage Member States to solve the household waste issue self-sufficiently.
After 28&#160;years, environmental dumping is still a major problem.
The Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg has now made a couple of rulings in this legal void, but these do not provide a definite answer either to the question as to what exactly constitutes recovery and what does not.
Obviously, once paper has been recycled five to seven times it can no longer be recycled, and then incineration could indeed be useful.
We must now hold this political debate.
It deals with different levels of control, depending on the risks posed by the waste and its treatment in terms of recovery or disposal.
Under the proposal, shipments of all waste destined for disposal and shipments of hazardous and semi-hazardous waste destined for recovery will be subject to the requirement of prior written notification and consent.
Non-hazardous or what is termed 'green list waste for recovery' would remain subject neither to notification nor consent.
In other words, the present requirements would remain for green listed waste.
I would like the Commission to tell me specifically whether or not an economic impact analysis was done in relation to this particular proposal, to back-up their claim in relation to the economic costs involved.
Nevertheless, the harmonisation and tightening up of procedures is generally very welcome from an environmental protection perspective.
The Commission has presented a draft outline on how this might be achieved.
I broadly welcome this proposal, but no matter how well-regulated the system is, there will always be risks, culminating in accidents such as the one in April this year, when a German-registered ship, the , ran aground on the tip of Cornwall.
A number of people have referred to the European Court judgment.
I am speaking in particular about my own Member State, which would like to have the opportunity to build incinerators.
It is quite clear that if incineration is allowed to be classified as recovery, then there is an incentive to burn and dispose in this way and that creates a disincentive for governments to get their act together.
This is a very bad example to set to other Member States joining the European Union.
In my own country in particular, the Irish Government looks for derogations right, left and centre, despite the fact that it has made no effort whatsoever to provide the public in Ireland with the possibility to have effective recycling possibilities or to create recycling industries.
This is not an economical way of dealing with waste in the long-term nor it is good for the environment or public health. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of waste is one of the subjects that interests people most, as it has a tangible effect on them.
The explosive growth in the volume of waste in the future will be both an environmental and a health problem for an enlarged European Union and its citizens.
Nevertheless, in many Member States regulations for waste management, the prevention of its build-up, recovery and recycling have not been implemented yet in any serious way, and national laws are often unsatisfactory.
I myself belong to a band of happy citizens who live in a country where the national strategy on waste is sufficiently ambitious and dealt with excellently.
Finland’s waste problems at national level cannot, however, be shrugged off, because, as with environmental disasters, waste knows no limits either.
It is important to note that ships and other means of transport by water can be classed as waste.
The Basel Convention has not taken separate account of this, and it is therefore important to raise the matter here and now so that any loopholes can be closed. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I am pleased to say that the Commission can accept 26 amendments fully and a further 23 amendments in principle or in part.
As we all know, the problem relates to the fact that waste for recovery travels almost freely within the single market and, at the same time, waste treatment that respects higher standards is often more costly than conventional waste treatment.
However, we are legally obliged through the Treaty to safeguard the environment while also respecting the rules of the internal market.
A solution can therefore be best found at Community level and should be based on three main elements.
Amendments 13, 14, 34 and 41 propose banning shipments of waste for interim treatment operations and define recovery and disposal operations as only covering final treatment and not interim operations.
In fact, such criteria could be among several deemed relevant for the distinction between recovery and disposal in general, which is a horizontal issue which should be settled in the context of the Waste Framework Directive rather than in the specific context of this regulation.
Another element regarding Annex V, namely that of giving priority to the EU hazardous list above the Basel non-hazardous list in relation to the so-called Basel ban on exports of hazardous waste from OECD to non-OECD countries, can be supported – Amendments 69 and 70.
Let me just make a brief comment on the question of the double legal basis.
As the explanatory memorandum establishes, the primary objective of the regulation is protection of the environment.
That main objective has been maintained in the new proposal and the legal basis is in Article 175 of the EC Treaty: environment.
However, as regards the provisions of Titles IV, V and VI on exports out of, imports into and transit through the Community to and from third countries, it can be argued that these are rules which pursue an overall and general environmental objective, as well as rules on international trade.
Therefore, the legal basis as regards the specific provisions in these three titles is Article 133 of the EC Treaty.
Amendment 95 proposes to allow tacit consent in relation to shipments of hazardous waste for recovery.
Firstly, we have to apply the precautionary approach to shipments of hazardous waste within the Community and, secondly, we have to respect the Basel Convention's requirements in this respect.
The Basel Convention is very clear and leaves no room for interpretation.
The Commission supports the amendments which pursue the same goal as the Commission proposal, namely the promotion of EU standards and certain internationally-agreed guidelines in the country of destination outside the Community.
The debate is closed.
This document not only deals with the protection of the soil, but also the conservation of the earth and the landscape, it is intended to guarantee the safety and health of citizens and prevent all types of risk.
I therefore congratulate the Commission on its work.
As a thematic strategy it intends to implement a scientific policy and carry out much more firm, consistent and coherent work than has been done until now.
These catalogues must include a biography of soils, typologies, structures and other variables as well as the uses, possible risks and historic, landscape or cultural values, highlighting the risks of any nature.
I would recommend much more precise research in certain fields.
We insist on the need to exchange information and research on the use of agriculture.
This includes the development of a communication on major soil degradation issues such as erosion, contamination and organic matter, as well as a proposal for a soil monitoring directive.
The European Parliament recognises the Community dimension for many of the soil degradation processes Europe is faced with.
Parliament underlines that soil degradation processes are progressive and often go unnoticed, sometimes for many decades.
This distinguishes soil from other environmental components and goes some way towards explaining why air and water policies were developed earlier.
The Commission shares the view that any approach to soil protection must take account of the considerable diversity of regional and local conditions that exist across Europe.
The Commission fully agrees that it is vital to apply an integrated approach to soil, based on sustainable development.
The numerous detailed comments, requests and additional proposals contained in Parliament's resolution will be fully taken into account in the future development of the soil thematic strategy.
In this context the Commission welcomes Parliament's support for the knowledge-based approach.
The Commission will examine the detailed proposals for a soil catalogue, soil mapping and zoning, which should be geared to solving specific soil degradation problems.
The Commission welcomes the important role attributed to agriculture and forestry in revitalising soil – in particular, the call to make cross-compliance compulsory for all payments under the common agricultural policy; the integration of specific measures for soil and water protection into the CAP; the localised diagnosis of the impacts of CAP reform on soil health; and the definition of patterns of agriculture and forestry, in line with soil characteristics.
The Commission welcomes Parliament's request to bring land use into line with soil characteristics, to integrate soil protection objectives into spatial planning strategies, to prevent the indiscriminate sealing of land and to prevent the bisection of ecosystems, waterflows and landscapes by road and urban infrastructures.
The Commission fully subscribes to the role attributed to soil protection in the context of major processes such as biodiversity decline, climate change, desertification, coastal erosion and forest fires.
The Commission recognises, in particular, the need for additional action to combat desertification in Europe and will consider Parliament's urgent call for an immediate communication and Community action programme on desertification.
We can now further direct our work on the development of the next stage on the soil strategy. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we, as human beings, are extremely dependent on water and air, but also on the soil.
Firstly, it is good to establish that the soil has a less international nature than air or water, which are always moving.
Those effects must therefore be minimised and the strain on the soil thus reduced.
The promotion of modes of transport that have less or no impact on the soil, such as inland water and coastal water transport, presents an opportunity for doing this, as does the use of less harmful materials in the construction of infrastructure.
Finally, the Community should also assert its influence directly in the construction of infrastructure by incorporating the interests of the soil into projects in which the Community is investing.
It has already been pointed out that this is a very important issue: soil is a vital component for our existence.
Regarding coastal erosion, I was rapporteur in this Parliament some time ago on coastal zone management.
Some coastal erosion is related to nature and is thus outside our control, but quite a lot of coastal erosion is a result of irresponsible planning and development.
The issue of over-grazing in Ireland has caused a major problem in relation to soil erosion in the west of Ireland and also in some other places.
Forestry is an issue which has caused major problems in relation to soil erosion throughout the European Union, particularly in the southern part of Europe.
As the last speaker said, soil is vital not just in terms of beauty and aesthetic value, but also in terms of our survival, the survival of farming communities, and even the survival of those that to a certain extent have contributed to the major problem in relation to soil.
Indeed, several European policies as well as several directives, such as the IV water directive or the sixth environmental programme, deal with soil protection.
A similar issue appears in the Forest-Focus programme.
A whole range of projects and directives on environmental responsibility also address this issue.
What is the point, furthermore, of defining soil at European level, of drawing up a scientific soil catalogue by 2007 with harmonisation of scientific data on soil, other than to note their diversity, which is already known?
The tragic accidents that have affected the chemical industry in recent years and, above all, the people living near these sites and the surrounding area could only attract the European Union’s attention.
Areas such as Baia Mare, Aznalcollar and, above all, Toulouse and Enschede, have become synonymous with environmental human tragedies, to which we have to respond clearly.
It is in this sensitive context that the Commission presented to Parliament and the Council its proposal to amend Directive 96/82 of December 1996 on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances.
This proposal was the product of in-depth scientific work and we are pleased to acknowledge the Commission’s desire to tackle the shortcomings of the previous directive with a constructive mindset that has enabled us all to send a clear message to both the chemical industry and the people.
We will make every effort to ensure that, in future, adequate control measures are adopted and respected.
As you are aware, the Council achieved a common position which incorporated the essence of many of Parliament’s concerns.
It is true that, after this second reading, there are still some grey areas, although I believe they have been clarified by the conciliation that we carried out which is now awaiting Parliament’s approval.
The compromise that we reached seeks to guarantee complimentarity between the directive in question and the Directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries, which is at its first reading in Parliament.
As regards training of staff, in this sector we insisted from the outset on the importance of adequate training of staff in the prevention and management of possible accidents.
This idea was confirmed in the Conciliation Committee and Parliament obtained provision for adequate training to be given not only to staff at establishments in question but also to sub-contracted staff at these establishments.
As regards a third aspect, maps showing risk areas, Parliament has repeatedly called for provision for illustrated maps to inform the public concerned of risk areas and the extent of the risk, as it believes that this is a simple, clear means of informing all those who could be affected of the potential risk in the event of an accident.
The compromise reached in the Conciliation Committee regarding a database for risk data and risk scenarios&#160;–&#160;a database which seeks to assess the compatibility of industrial sites with sensitive areas&#160;–&#160;calls on the Commission to draw up the necessary guidelines for the creation of such a database within three years, whilst, at the same time, preserving the necessary subsidiarity in the face of the diversity of situations.
I feel that we have reached a satisfactory agreement together which takes into consideration all the demands that were expressed, especially the main objective that I mentioned at the beginning, the need to send our fellow citizens a clear message.
Lastly, a technical note: Mr President, in Annex I (I) in particular points 5 and 6, there are definitions that could give rise to ambiguity.
I would ask you to note that the correct version is the English version. &#160;&#160; – The situation is rather complicated and so your statement will need to be repeated tomorrow, before the vote. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Commission welcomes the outcome of the conciliation process and is pleased that the co-legislators decided not only to broaden the scope of the Seveso II Directive in the light of the accidents in Baia Mare, Enschede and Toulouse, but also to strengthen its provisions.
The new directive now covers chemical and thermal processing operations in mining as well as all operational tailings disposal facilities containing dangerous mining waste.
Taking into account the results of two studies carried out by the Commission, the directive also includes more carcinogenic substances, and the qualifying quantities for substances toxic to the aquatic environment have been significantly decreased.
Moreover, and particularly due to requests by the European Parliament, the directive has now been strengthened in a number of other areas such as information for the public, training for emergencies and the involvement of subcontracted personnel.
The new directive now also obliges industrial operators to produce risk maps showing areas that might be affected by a major accidents.
As Member for Toulouse, I can tell you, how much, two years after the event, the tragedy of the explosion at the AZF factory remains extraordinarily present in the town, in the minds and often even in the flesh of the victims of the disaster.
In several areas, the work carried out at third reading and in conciliation provides for new steps forward with new precautionary measures, and in our legislative action we did of course bear in mind security of employees working in potentially hazardous factories.
I welcome the outcome that was achieved in the Conciliation Committee on this point.
Absolute protection cannot exist, by definition, but I am also completely sure that this House, in taking up this issue quickly and in providing greater protection rules, will have proven how much Europe can respond when it has to, to the immediate concerns of our citizens and this is why I would like to thank you. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
In its resolution on foot and mouth disease of December 2002, the European Parliament stated that the Commission should submit, as quickly as possible, a proposal to amend Directive 92/102/EEC so as to improve the identification of pigs, sheep and goats.
According to current legislation sheep and goats must be identified with an ear-tag or a tattoo linked to the holding.
The keepers must keep an up-to-date register on the holding, and the competent authority must keep an up-to-date central register of holdings.
The main new elements of the proposed system are individual identification, double ear-tagging to ensure that identity is retained where one ear-tag is lost, and the introduction of a movement document.
The introduction of a reinforced system will have a positive impact in case of outbreaks of major animal diseases, such as foot and mouth disease, allowing for the rapid identification of the source of infection and limiting the further spread of disease.
Furthermore, it will facilitate accurate tracing of animals in the framework of the animal disease eradication programmes financed by the Community.
The technology of electronic identification for sheep and goats has progressed to such a stage that it can now be applied in practice.
The proposal, therefore, provides for further guidelines and procedures to be adopted through the Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health, with entry into force of obligatory electronic tagging foreseen for 1 July 2006.
I am well aware of the diversity of the sheep population and the sheep production systems in the Member States.
The proposal therefore includes options, which would allow Member States to defer the identification of lambs up to the age of 6 months, where sheep are kept under extensive farming conditions in free range, and to apply simplified identification arrangements to young lambs, up to 6 months of age, intended for direct slaughter.
The proposal foresees that the Commission shall, if necessary, submit to the Council a report on the experience gained concerning electronic identification.
This report could be accompanied by proposals amending, if appropriate, the date by which electronic identification should become obligatory.
The proposals from the Commission, which are the subject of this report, bridge the gap between present practice and the agreement to introduce electronic methods.
The proposals envisage a complicated control system based on individual identification numbers and the recording of all these numbers when sheep and goats are moved.
Primarily, the committee unanimously wants batch control systems to be allowed as well as individual control, and for the Member States to be able to apply both systems according to circumstances.
We also need a system that will be practical.
All of these things have to be practical, because we need the sheep and lamb industry.
Sheep are necessary to the European Union, and we must be careful not to price ourselves out of that industry.
He has produced a wonderful report and, throughout its production, he has shown great skill in introducing all those aspects which could improve it and make it more flexible.
As has already been said in this debate, the identification and traceability of goats is an essential element in the control of animal health and, also, of course, food safety.
The problems of identification in this type of livestock are very significant; the movement of livestock which can take place within one year, which has an enormous influence on the problems of traceability, or the way in which the lives of this type of livestock are spent, which hinders adequate registration and identification by means of the current systems.
We therefore believe that it is very important to establish a sufficiently long transitional period during which we can adopt flexible measures in order to reach a date, naturally, when the electronic identification becomes obligatory for all the countries of the European Union.
It is very important that we understand that the additional cost of an electronic identification system must not be an additional cost which solely and exclusively falls to breeders, but which must be taken on by society as a whole, since it is society which will benefit from the implementation of such a system of traceability and identification as ambitious as the one being proposed to us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the original Commission proposal may just be possible in the context of the small number of sheep or goats kept in an enclosed field, although even here there are concerns in relation to animal welfare.
It also recognises, as the beef labelling regulation failed to do, that the requirements of traceability for the purposes of disease control are different from those involved in providing information for consumers.
I hope for a similar outcome in tomorrow's vote.
I urge the Commission to take on board the report's major recommendations, to come back with a comprehensive cost analysis for these proposals and to acknowledge the effectiveness of recording batch movements of sheep until such time as electronic identification becomes a viable and practical proposition. &#160;&#160; – Someone applauded in the public gallery.
I would remind you once again that visitors in the gallery are always welcome, but they cannot intervene in any way, either to express agreement or to express disagreement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since Europe has such large numbers of sheep and goats it is necessary to introduce an efficient system for the identification of animals, which, at the same time, does not impose an administrative burden on producers.
The proof that the system is viable can be found in the fact that Spain, a country which, together with the United Kingdom, has one of the most significant herds in the European Union, has just gone ahead with the purchase of a million devices which are placed in the digestive system of ruminants for the differentiation of the different genotypes of sheep and goats.
Following the foot and mouth crisis, which decimated the United Kingdom's cattle stocks, it is urgent that we implement an individual identification system like the one which is being discussed, in order to try to prevent the recurrence of this type of veterinary epidemic.
As a former chairperson of the Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease, I would like to congratulate the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the European Parliament because we have been able to achieve compromise positions in the report approved in the Committee on Agriculture.
The report we will vote on tomorrow contains two compromise amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, which respect the interests of the European Union's producers.
According to the compromise achieved, this is six months for intensive breeding and nine in the case of extensive breeding.
The second compromise amendment, presented by the rapporteur, sets the date of July 2007 for the introduction of electronic identification, which sends a clear message to both breeders and the industry manufacturing the devices necessary for the electronic system.
If that were so, we would have to look at these proposals within that context.
The speeches that we will hear this evening will be unanimous in their view.
I am totally in favour of what has been said about batch or flock identification.
The agricultural industry cannot take any more of this.
I urge the Commissioner to reflect on what has been said here tonight.
I urge you to reflect and agree with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and give us more time to get a proper identification system that will work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the foot and mouth disease crisis of 2001 graphically and horrifically underlined the inadequacy of Council Directive 92/102/EEC on the identification and registration of animals, including sheep and goats.
Therefore I broadly welcome proposals for a regulation reinforcing the provisions of that directive.
I fully support the position adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the proposals before us.
In theory all Member States favour an individual identification system, but there are two camps.
Firstly those countries generally in favour of the proposals which, apart from France, tend to be the states with lower sheep numbers, including Ireland, and secondly those which maintain it would be completely impractical and too costly to implement an individual system in advance of electronic identification.
This latter group includes Spain, Portugal, Greece and very definitely the UK, where there are huge numbers of sheep and geographical factors amplify the considerable concerns of the sheep industry.
The Council presidency has now presented a compromise on the original proposals, which would drop all recording of individual sheep numbers until such a time as an electronic recording system is in place, and secondly would introduce compulsory electronic identification for sheep and goats from 1 January 2008, subject to a Commission report on implementation by June 2006.
However, in Ireland we are not in favour of the double tagging proposed, because this would result in a higher workload for flock owners and significantly increase the associated costs, such as tag replacement, without adding any value to our current system.
This system was introduced to ensure that Ireland operates to the highest standards of disease monitoring and control and is at the forefront in terms of consumer assurance and food safety.
Most importantly for us in Ireland, it gives us a considerable advantage in relation to the export market.
We do not want to go backwards and replace our current system – that is the official line, speak to the farmers if you want to hear what they have to say – with what amounts to no more than a flock identification system that will not give full traceability.
The compromise system would not allow the movements of an individual sheep to be traced.
As colleagues have said, let us harmonise the objective but not necessarily the methodology.
The long-term objective should be a cost-effective electronic identification system.
The Commission can agree to Amendment 3 with regard to the stage of development of electronic identification, but the Commission cannot agree to Amendment 3 with regard to the introduction of electronic identification on a voluntary basis.
The Commission can agree to Amendments 17, 18 and 23 with regard to the postponement of the entry into force of the reinforced system until 1 July 2005.
The Commission can agree to Amendments 6 and 27, on the submission of a report on the experience gained with regard to the implementation of electronic identification.
However, the Commission cannot agree to submit a new legislative proposal with a view to the general introduction of electronic identification on 1 July 2007.
The Commission can agree to Amendments 4 and 7 concerning the role of the Joint Research Centre.
The Commission can agree to the linguistic Amendment 12.
The Commission can agree to Amendment 14, as the responsibilities of the transporter shall include the assurance that animals are properly identified and registered.
The Commission can also agree to Amendments 20 and 32, as regards the provisions of the mark, but the Commission cannot agree to Amendments 19, 31, 32 or 33, as animals shall keep the same identification code when means of identification are replaced so as to ensure traceability.
The Commission cannot agree to Amendments 30 and 32, by which animals shall be identified by an eartag or a tattoo in one ear only.
The double tagging is essential to ensure that identity is retained where one eartag is lost.
The Commission can agree to Amendments 8, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 25, 26, 39 and 40.
However, the Commission cannot agree to Amendments 22 or 24, as the competent authority shall establish the database including the procedures for submission of data.
The Commission cannot agree to Amendments 35, 36, 38 or 41 with regard to batch-recording as the general system.
Batch-recording does not achieve the results that are required by this proposal, bearing in mind that the batch may well be broken up again and again, in which case traceability becomes quite impossible.
This is something that many people in the House will remember when we recollect the difficulties that were presented to the authorities in a number of Member States, including, in particular, the UK, in seeking to achieve good traceability at the outbreak of the foot and mouth disease crisis, where three weeks passed before there was effective identification in some cases.
The Commission cannot agree to Amendments, 5, 13 or 29, as Community financing is not foreseen.
I recognise that this proposal will require significant efforts by both operators and authorities, but I shall stress that these efforts are both worthwhile and necessary.
That is what we will have to consider when we vote tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Each group and each Member will, of course, consider how to act in the vote carefully.
The debate is closed.
However, this sort of marking, without Community funding, will place a great financial burden on sheep and goat farmers.
Especially in Greece, where sheep and goat farming employs the farmer's whole family, day and night, 365 days a year, with no Christmas or Easter break and with an unacceptably low financial result in relation to the effort made and the capital invested, such an unreasonable and unfair financial burden would force numerous farmers to abandon their work and the countryside and would tragically reduce the animal stock.
At the same time, however, the general introduction of electronic tagging of sheep and goats by 1 July 2006 is considered very rushed for Greece, where there are more sheep and goats than in the other fourteen Member States together, which is why this deadline should be extended by at least a year.
The Commission can accept the following amendments: 4, 7, 8, 10, 12, 20, 25, 26, 34 and 40.
The Commission can accept the following amendments as part of the compromise package: 3(1), 6, 9, 11, 15, 16, 17, 18, 23, 32(2), 37 and 39.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 3(2), 5, 13, 14, 19, 21, 22, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32(1), 33, 35, 36, 38 or 41.
