The Security Council reminded Israel as much in 1980, when it adopted measures to make unified Jerusalem its capital, and Resolution 476 calls for the immediate cessation of policies and measures affecting the character and status of the holy city.
Resolution 478 affirms that all measures taken to modify the status of the city are null and void.
I welcome the fact that we are calling across the party divide for justice to be done and for their property to be restored to them. (Applause) author. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the middle of the night of 9 November, the Palestinian al-Kurd family were thrown by the Israeli police out of their house in Sheikh Jarah, in East Jerusalem.
There is, however, already a plan: an Israeli association wants to build 200 homes on the ruins of the houses of the Palestinians who are to be thrown out.
I therefore believe that, as Mrs De Keyser also said, the policy towards East Jerusalem is a colonial policy by Israel that is not recognised by the international community.
On the other hand, I would like to emphasise that unlike Nigeria and Somalia, this is not a black-and-white issue.
However, we do not believe that we can do this authoritatively.
Forty elected representatives of the Palestinian people, including the Speaker, are in jail, as are 300 children under the age of 18, including children as young as 12 years of age.
The al-Kurd case in East Jerusalem does not fall anywhere near that category.
It is a civil dispute between two private parties, and we really have no business interfering in such a dispute.
The eviction resulted from a ruling handed down by the Supreme Court of Israel last July, which had brought to an end a long and very controversial trial conducted in Israeli courts and before Israeli authorities.
It must be emphasised that the family was deprived of its home in spite of forceful protests on the part of the international community, and that the Supreme Court decision in fact paves the way to the seizure of a further 26 houses in the same area.
Such actions are illegal in international law, and the international community and in particular the Middle East Quartet should do everything in their power to protect Palestinians living in this area and in other parts of East Jerusalem.
The EU, in its statement of 11 November, called on the Israeli authorities to put an early end to such measures.
