Tragic situation in Burma (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the tragic situation in Burma.
President-in-Office. - (SL) We are all still shaken by the human suffering that the destructive cyclone Nargis caused to the poor and oppressed population of Burma, or Myanmar.
So far the Union's commitments have exceeded the sum of EUR 60 million.
The situation is still critical.
The Council welcomed the efforts made by the Commissioner Louis Michel to convince the authorities in Burma/Myanmar that the humanitarian help is urgent and neutral.
On 19 May the Foreign Ministers of the ASEAN Member States met in Singapore.
The European Union had previously presented this group with a demarche asking the countries in the region to influence the Burmese authorities to open the borders to humanitarian aid and humanitarian aid workers.
On Monday, 26 May, the General Affairs and External Relations Council will have a debate on the humanitarian situation in Burma, and on the denial of access to humanitarian aid experts and the delivery of aid to the affected area.
Burma, or Myanmar, also continues to be a priority topic in the Council's debates because of the political situation in that country.
I should emphasise that the European Union is also disappointed because the authorities have not paid any attention to the calls of the United Nations for a more inclusive and more legitimate transition to democracy.
Finally, please take note that on 29 April the European Union revised the common position adopted back in November 2007.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost I wish to thank you for placing Burma on the agenda for this sitting.
In view of the scale of the catastrophe caused by Cyclone Nargis on 2 May, we suggested the Presidency call an extraordinary meeting of the Council of EU Foreign Affairs Ministers.
The Council meeting was convened as soon as possible by the Slovenian Presidency, who I wish to thank, and was held on 12 May.
I decided to follow up the call directly by visiting Burma on 15 and 16 May.
The Burmese authorities provided a partial response to various specific demands: for example, visas for experts working for the Commission were extended by two weeks.
I was told that this was not possible because the technical standards used by the control tower differed from international standards and, in any case, that this would not make the work any easier since the roads between Rangoon and the delta, the area worst affected, were in much better condition and much easier to use.
I feel it is important for international pressure to be maintained, both by neighbouring countries and by the international community as a whole.
I ought to say that, in my discussions with the authorities, I also made a specific request - I made, in fact, five specific requests which I will tell you about in just a moment - that doctors and medical staff from neighbouring countries be allowed to deploy in the areas worst hit, and they obtained authorisation for this on the day I left.
This means that 140 doctors were deployed and also medical staff from Laos, Cambodia, India, Bangladesh and Thailand.
The UN Secretary-General agreed with this analysis, but had two specific suggestions to make himself: to deploy a joint UN/ASEAN humanitarian aid coordinator, and to quickly organise a donor conference co-presided by the UN and ASEAN on 24 and 25 May in Bangkok.
The timeline is therefore a maximum of three to four weeks.
The Commission provided a rapid response, with an emergency decision of two million euros adopted on 5 May.
I also asked for final clarification, and for them to notify our local authorities that Burmese workers at our agencies and other operators no longer require official authorisation or a travel permit.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commissioner has provided us with a persuasive and graphic portrayal of the way in which the ruling military government in Burma is cynically and brutally betraying its own people.
It goes without saying that ASEAN bears some responsibility for Burma, which is one of its Member Countries, and that the global reputation of the ASEAN countries will suffer if it continues to let the Burmese military junta act as it is acting at the moment.
They will be asked how they are exercising this responsibility, and whether or not they use their scope for action in this matter will influence our relations with ASEAN.
These are gradually becoming Pol Pot proportions, or at least we believe so, because there is just as little information coming out of the country as there is aid going in.
Former UN coordinator Jan Egeland said at the beginning of this week that refusing to allow aid in is murder.
China is in a position to do much more to urge the Burmese Government to accept help.
So area Russia and India which must put pressure on the junta either in the UN or in ASEAN.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) How many times have we stood in this House before talking about Burma?
All the United Nations Member States have signed up to the following two principles: accepting responsibility for the protection of citizens and, if a country is no longer able or willing to do that, the right of the international community to intervene in disasters.
I do wonder why we, the other 26 EU Member States, are not listening hard.
I would like to see the European Union take the initiative in getting the United Nations and the Security Council to refer this case to the prosecutor at the International Criminal Court in The Hague.
I would say, drag the junta into the International Criminal Court.
If we are for the people of Burma, this means we are against the military junta.
We must not support it, and this is exactly how we are perceived.
Louis Michel held discussions for two and a half hours.
It is therefore obvious we are at an extremely specific juncture, and I agree: the responsibility to protect means the military junta is committing a crime against humanity, against its own population.
We will see what becomes of this state of affairs in the public debates to follow.
Even a possible solution involving assistance manu militari would give us and countries in Asia some chance of putting pressure on Burma.
The issue with regard to the International Criminal Court is a matter for another day.
The Commissioner's first-hand account of his discussions with the Burmese military authorities makes for sobering listening and there is not much hope that the Burmese authorities will change their position.
And while I agree that an airdrop is not the ideal way of getting aid into a country - for we would rather have trained aid workers distributing help - it is better than nothing, so, please, let us get some help in and let us get it in now. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I want to add my voice to those who have expressed their sincere sympathies with the bereaved families of the tens of thousands of victims of the deadly Cyclone Nargis in Burma (Myanmar).
I also call on China, India, Singapore and other countries in the region, including the ASEAN Member Countries, to use their influence to persuade Burma to open up to foreign aid.
We just cannot remain inactive and watch the suffering and demise of the Burmese people go on any longer. (DE) Madam President, the scale of the crisis in Burma is horrific: 100 000 deaths, 200 000 people missing and more than two million homeless in a country of 54 million inhabitants.
The people of Burma have suffered both as a result of the cyclone and as a result of the behaviour of the military regime in power there.
It is now clear that over 125 000 people have died as a result of the cyclone which hit the southern regions of Burma on 2 and 3 May.
The United Nations estimates that in excess of 2.4 million people have been directly affected by this tragedy.
The policies of the military junta in preventing humanitarian aid workers from getting access to the affected areas are unprecedented.
Let us continue to keep the pressure on the Burmese leadership and force them to allow the international aid agencies to carry out their work.
We must not allow another 18 days to pass before action is taken.
The UN World Food Programme says that it was able to give rice and beans to 212 000 of the 750 000 people who are the worst affected.
China and Russia must understand that the situation there now is even more criminal, even more serious, than shortly after the cyclone. (DE) Madam President, 130 000 dead and more than two million homeless: that is the bitter reality in Burma.
Like the Burmese regime's contemptuous and brutal treatment of peaceful demonstrators during the Buddhist monks' revolt in September 2007 and its subsequent imposition of a news embargo lasting several months, this is a totalitarian act which is directed against the interests of the population.
It is time that all members of the Council, including China which has supported the Burmese dictatorship, accept their responsibilities towards the sacrificed people of Burma. (LT) Today we are talking about the tragic situation in Burma in the aftermath of the cyclone that swept across the country at the beginning of the month.
The list of criminal acts committed by Burma's leaders, which will never be forgotten, comprises forbidding international aid workers to enter the country, refusing to assist those seeking help and showing total disregard for the international community's efforts to help the suffering.
Probably it will be impossible to hold the second round of voting in most areas of the Irrawaddy delta on 24 May.
Some observers - seasoned journalists, diplomats, former EU ambassadors in South-East Asia - say that isolating Burma in this way does not help.
The EU countries delivering aid should insist on monitoring to ensure that aid reaches the cyclone victims most in need. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the few seconds available I would like to draw the House's attention to the cry of alarm which has reached me from volunteers working for the international organisation Save the Children, informing us of the imminent risk of a tragedy to compound the tragedy.
Rescue crews have reported that, in the marsh area of the Irrawaddy Delta, over 30 000 children are dying through want, children who have survived Cyclone Nargis and, in many cases, their own parents, who are now the victims of hunger and thirst, ill with dysentery and exhausted by rain and the cold.
We have heard today that Cyclone Nargis has brought devastation to two and a half million Burmese people and, as the Commissioner said, the situation has been exacerbated by the regime's intransigence in denying foreign aid, so that only a quarter of those in need of urgent help have actually received it.
I hope that Commissioner Michel will provide an answer to the questions 'Where do we go from here?' and 'How do we move forward?' (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the very failure of the mission described by Commissioner Michel, who I do, however, thank for his utmost sincerity, gives us an understanding of how at this moment in time it is appropriate to focus on the doctrine of humanitarian intervention to foster not only relations with the Burmese authorities, but also with the Chinese authorities who are currently demonstrating a different kind of sensitivity in light of the serious disturbances and disasters which have also occurred in their country.
It is a military junta that bears responsibility first for failing to warn their population in time about the approaching cyclone and secondly for refusing to let humanitarian aid enter the country.
Oxfam have estimated that up to two thirds of a million people may be threatened in the current circumstances.
We have to urge everyone - the Chinese, the European Union, other neighbours - to put as much pressure as possible on the regime to moderate its position and open its doors to aid and aid workers currently parked in Bangkok and Thailand.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I should like to thank all the participants in this debate, which leads me to believe that there is, in this Parliament, a wide consensus regarding some essential elements which are also the essential components of the Council's approach to the situation in Burma.
We are extremely concerned, first of all by the humanitarian situation in Burma, and secondly about the responsibility of the Burmese authorities for countering the effects of the disastrous cyclone, and in this context about their responsibility for securing access so that the humanitarian aid can reach those who need it.
I should emphasise that before the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the ASEAN member states, which was held the day before yesterday, the European Union served a demarche to the ASEAN states, in which it stated its expectations and proposals regarding the situation in Burma.
And on 19 May, following the ASEAN meeting in Singapore, a statement was received containing some encouraging elements.
I should also mention the joint decision of the ASEAN countries and the United Nations to launch a call for a donors' conference, which is to be held on Sunday, 25 May in Rangoon.
Written statements (Rule 142) , in writing. - (SK) I am shocked by the terrible tragedy that has befallen the Burmese people.
It is despicable that the generals who have a firm grip on the country will not be swayed by the vast number of victims of the destructive Cyclone Nargis, the number of whom may still increase due to the lack of drinking water, food and medical help.
The arrogance of power probably has no limits.
The humanitarian organisation Oxfam has warned that, unless help gets quickly to those affected, the number of victims may reach as many as 1.5 million.
According to the UN, the disaster has affected up to 2 million people who need help.
