European Institute of Innovation and Technology (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading by Reino Paasilinna, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (15647/1/2007 - C6-0035/2008 -.
In our work that is always vital in order to achieve a good result.
The European Institute of Innovation and Technology, as its name suggests, is to focus on innovation.
We will need to invest in quality education and basic research in the future but, as we all know, innovation is Europe's Achilles heel.
We will then try to set up a group of 18 persons to start as the governing board.
The foundations are already in place.
In Europe as a whole, as in most countries - at least in most of the Member States - it could, should and must be more.
The EIT is not exactly a competitive institution, but it should be driving this research, it should be creating new initiatives.
The rapporteur has been diligent and circumspect and has very much included us all.
This building is a choice location for an EIT and for a European Research Council.
Strasbourg could become 'Scienceburg', and we should all be taking up this cause.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, it is fortunate that today we are completing the legislative work involved in setting up the European Institute of Innovation and Technology.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) I would like to say that since Kondratiev's long wave theory it has been known that creating innovation and implementing innovation in society is an objective process, a process with its own specific and objective patterns.
I personally believe that as far as institutions go, the EIT is more important for the future of Europe than, for example, the European Commission.
The value of scientific endeavour has always been fundamental for Europeans.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am fundamentally against the establishment of the European Institute of Innovation and Technology.
The private sector, whose money the Commission and the Council are relying upon, does not see why it should finance a senseless dream of politicians and officials. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, please forgive me that I was not able to be here at the start of the debate.
For many centuries, our continent has been the centre of scientific and technological development, and European science has always been international.
Setting up the European Institute of Innovation and Technology is an important step to keep on with this ancient tradition of our continent.
I think that the European Institute of Innovation and Technology can be our platform for a 'putting-a-man-on-the-moon' project, meaning the connection between excellent researchers and the pooling of our resources.
The arguments in favour of Wrocław are: its considerable intellectual potential; the fact that it is already a strong academic centre; the large concentration of capital and major companies, including foreign companies, in the Lower Silesian region, which could become partners for the EIT; and finally the close proximity of two other EU Member States: Germany and the Czech Republic.
I believe that a decision to settle on Wrocław as the headquarters for the Governing Board of the European Institute of Technology would be optimal as regards harmonious scientific and technical development in the EU, which must do away with the divisions between the old and the new Europe. (PL) Mr President, there are naturally certain consequences of having one's speaking time restricted to just one minute.
Well, it would be Wrocław - Wrocław, which lies on the boundary between the old and the new Europe; not a capital, but a thriving city with excellent universities and almost 150 000 students.
The network of Knowledge and Innovation Communities that forms part of the European Institute must also be dispersed evenly throughout the European Union.
The Institute should be an instrument that mobilises the entire territory of the Community and must lend itself to an increase in competitiveness, innovation and technological progress, as the precursor to economic development for the whole of the European Union.
A Europe of innovation, the innovation of Europe - the EIT is the missing link between these two concepts: a missing link that, if it is adopted in tomorrow's vote, will enable the European Union to progress.
At first reading, I expressed my regret at the meagre financial resources allocated to the EIT, at the inadequacy of this support: EUR 308 million is not a sufficient response to fulfil our ambitions.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we therefore need to change the financial climate and provide the resources necessary for our very real ambitions to take shape. (NL) I am pleased to be given this opportunity.
The review of financial prospects for 2007-2013 has already enabled the Institute to receive funding of approximately EUR 309 million, and this is a good start.
I am therefore of the opinion that the proposal to site one of the EIT's structures in Wrocław - a city of more than 140 000 students - will be an excellent European investment for the future.
It would be good if the European Institute of Technology, which we will establish either today or tomorrow, were not only to provide an opportunity for the European Union to take part in global innovative competition, in the global battle for knowledge, but also to serve to unite these two camps that have been divided by history.
I would join with my Polish colleagues who have recommended the city of Wrocław as a location either for the headquarters or for one of the Institute's departments, and I would like to see the authorities in that city be prepared to invest the money that is so essential for the success of this project. (FR) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Paasilinna, and the Commissioner, and I would like to mention something that was not said during the debate, namely that without the academic world and its support, we would not be here today.
I would also like to make the point that the siting of the future Institute is no trivial matter.
All these requirements are met by the Polish city of Wrocław, which I would like to commend to you.
These goals are vital for maintaining the EU industrial, competitive and innovative base.
This will be possible only when we stake our money on education, research, new technologies and, in its broadest sense, innovation.
It is one of the moments or follow-ups of the Lahti Summit of October 2006 and actually we only proposed the draft text one day before the summit.
It took one and a half years: we started it as a part of the Lisbon Strategy in February 2005 and since then we have had many coffees and many talks that were very inspirational and very interesting - also in this building - showing that there are a lot of options or opinions on how to promote innovation.
That is more or less all I wanted to add as a response to your points and support.
As you did in this Parliament in your committees, we did the same in the Commission.
This month I want to propose that we declare 2009 the European Year of Creativity and Innovation.
This is the way we can work together.
This project has to succeed, because Europe needs it.
Let us hope that the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) will be just such an innovative brainchild of the European Parliament.
The EIT can play an enormous role in ensuring that European innovation is once again renowned throughout the world and that European industry and researchers are a force to be reckoned with.
This is the total outlay on the Institute and the network of Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs) that are expected to absorb most of the funds.
Nevertheless, knowing Wrocław's ambitions and the quality of administration in that city, I am convinced that this is the right place for the EIT and I am satisfied with the progress that has been made towards establishing this institution.
in writing. - Education, research and innovation are windows to the future.
The proposed network structure is a good solution.
