European conscience and totalitarianism (debate) - The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on European conscience and totalitarianism.
It was subsequently agreed that 2009 be designated as the 20th anniversary of democratic change in Central and Eastern Europe.
I would like in particular to thank many Members for their support in organising a public hearing on the issue of 'European Conscience and Crimes of Totalitarian Communism' last week in Brussels, where we were together with Commissioner Figeľ.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, a year ago, in April 2008, a hearing was held for the first time in the European Union on the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes.
The Commission regards Parliament's written declaration on the proclamation of 23 August as a European day of remembrance for the victims of Stalinism and Nazism as an important initiative, which it supports in the interests of preserving the memory of totalitarian crimes and raising public awareness, particularly among the younger generations.
The hearing of 8 April 2008 showed that the Member States in Western Europe need to be more aware of the tragic history of the Member States in the East, which is also part of our shared, common, European history.
The Commission is now focussing its attention on the report which it will submit in 2010 - next year - as the Council has requested.
The study will be completed by the end of this year.
The Prague Declaration of 3 June 2008 on European Conscience and Communism contains a number of ideas and propositions that will also be taken on board when preparing this report.
In 2005 we adopted a resolution on the 60th anniversary of the end of the Second World War.
We discovered that the European Parliament and the EU lacked the political will to pursue a common understanding and evaluation of European history.
While the victims of Fascism and Nazism have received decent compensation, millions of victims of Communism have been forgotten.
Finally, will the Czech Presidency pass on its special task to the Swedish Presidency?' on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, my group is not against the debate that is being held today per se, but we do have a great deal of difficulty with summarising the result of this debate in a resolution.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (HU) The European Union was born in the shadow of two totalitarian regimes.
It was a response to the horrors of World War II and the atrocities of the Holocaust, but just as important was its mandate to halt the territorial expansion of Stalinism and Communism, and to keep alive the hope that Europe may one day reunite in democracy and peace.
Another sign of success is the fact that the Balkan states are also looking to the EU for their future, as are certain countries in Eastern Europe or the South Caucasus that in many cases are still living under oppressive regimes.
When we talk of totalitarianism, we do so not because we want to live in the past.
The European Union has an important task, namely, to call upon these countries to rectify this unacceptable situation.
Europe's conscience cannot be clear without fully examining and remembering the past.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (HU) It is 20 years ago that the uprising of Temesvár (Timişoara) began that would lead to the collapse of the ignominious Ceauşescu dictatorship.
The resolution subsequently adopted states the following: the European Community must abandon the double standard that is evident in the different ways in which Nazism and Communism have been judged.
Only in this way can a divided Europe be truly unified and become that which Prime Minister Gordon Brown spoke of yesterday, in relation to the 20th anniversary, as follows: 'My friends, today there is no Old Europe, no New Europe, no East or West Europe, there is only one Europe, our home Europe'.
Yet even Jan Zahradil of the ODS commented at the hearings: 'The identification of Communism with German Nazism is and is not correct.
Condemning totalitarian Islam does not in any way imply condemnation of individual Muslims in Europe who observe the rules, values and standards of a democratic state under the rule of law, and for whom faith is a private matter.
Yet we do have to have the courage to recognise that political Islam, totalitarian Islam - not only Islamic states, or some such states, but also terrorist organisations such as Al Qaeda and related movements - continues to claim many victims worldwide.
The appropriate course of action, therefore, is for the European Union to take a number of strong initiatives to remember those victims, too, and to ensure that the number of victims of such totalitarian Islamic organisations and countries is reduced as far as possible, preferably to zero.
After all, we must have the courage to admit - and this, too, is a problem in the European Union - that criticising totalitarian Islam is not always welcome because the spirit of political correctness prevails here.
What is more, totalitarian Islam was not even mentioned in the Commission and Council statements just now, when what we should in fact be doing is having the courage to contemplate that problem, too, and to take the necessary measures. - Madam President, in 1948 President Truman wrote, 'Now we are faced with exactly the same situation with which Britain and France were faced in 1939 in dealing with Hitler.
So the question is why, 61 years later, we still have to argue about the same problems.
I think that today what we need is not only the economic and political enlargement of Europe but the enlargement of European awareness of the massive crimes against humanity which occurred everywhere in Europe in the 20th century.
I am very thankful, both to the Czech Presidency and to Commissioner Figeľ, for their statements, which give hope that we can reach an all-European understanding. - (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to begin my speech by quoting from a poem written by Osip Mandelstam, one of the greatest Russian poets of the 20th century.
For that poem Osip Mandelstam was sent into exile.
Osip Mandelstam symbolises the millions of victims of 20th-century totalitarian regimes in Europe.
We remember the victims of authoritarian systems, the victims in European countries, in nationalistic and militaristic regimes, in Spain, in Portugal and in Greece.
The victims of 20th-century totalitarian regimes must be the foundation of today's democracy in Europe. . - (LV) Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, Europe's common values still do not contain a requirement to make a comprehensive and truthful assessment of the crimes of various totalitarian regimes in Europe and their consequences.
Moreover, in some Central and Eastern European Member States, people who disregarded human rights or sent people to camps or to their death without following the legal procedure are still in office and held in esteem.
I hope that we shall manage through this process to bring perpetrators who are still alive to book and to commemorate the victims, in order to develop greater understanding for each other in the interest of a common future. - (EL) Madam President, the escalation in the European Union's wretched anti-Communist strategy is a brazen insult to the people: with the counterfeiting of history, slander and lies, Fascism is being equated with Communism.
The first country that comes to mind is China; China is at present a country where forced abortions are performed, a country containing Laogai, a real concentration camp where people work for the big multinationals or the Chinese state and where priests and political opponents are incarcerated.
There is therefore a kind of totalitarianism emerging there, but there is also another emerging totalitarianism in the declarations made by Prime Minister Zapatero, but also Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy, on the subject of the Pope's statements in Africa and other events connected with the Catholic Church.
This results in an atmosphere of intolerance in certain countries, as we saw the other day at Notre Dame for example, when worshippers were attacked by anti-Catholic activists. - (HU) Christianity and the doctrine of universal human rights presents us with a single measure, that of human dignity and unconditional respect for human life.
A democrat, a European cannot accept the fact that even today, even in this Parliament, there are people for whom the crimes of the Communist dictatorship are excusable and forgivable.
While it is difficult today to imagine Hitler being raised onto a pedestal, Stalin's monument stands proudly in the main square of his home town Gori.
In Russia last year, Stalin was voted one of the 12 greatest individuals in history. - (PL) Madam President, it is sometimes said that Nazi totalitarianism originates from the Right and Communist totalitarianism from the Left.
Nazi and Communist totalitarianism destroyed democracy.
In this Chamber we are not voting on the truth about history, we are voting on the truth about ourselves, and about our moral judgments. (Applause) - Madam President, why is it that democrats feel so restrained about naming dictators and those who dedicated their careers to combating democracy, enslaving countries, persecuting those who dared to speak against them and are responsible for crimes?
This evening, we are not talking about totalitarianism, we are not talking in euphemisms: we are talking about Hitler's Fascist, criminal dictatorship and Joseph Stalin's Communist criminal dictatorship.
When I was 16 years old I lived in Frankfurt am Main, which is two hours' tank drive away from Prague.
Minister, Alexander Dubček, whom we honoured in this House, tried very hard to liberalise the system.
We should have the courage to name those who were responsible, but we should look to the future to ensure that never again this continent suffers from Hitlerism or Stalinism. (Applause) - (ES) Madam President, let us not forget - I agree - and let us not make too many subtle distinctions: from the political viewpoint, all forms of totalitarianism deserve condemnation and Communism and Fascism did irreparable damage to this continent.
I lived for 32 years under Franco's dictatorship and I shall not forget that, and nor will some of the speakers, from Greece or Portugal for instance, have forgotten their past.
I never forgot, even when I was young, the suffering that people were experiencing under Communist dictatorship.
We must fight for the same principles, the same values and retain a permanent memory of the victims of all these forms of totalitarianism. - (LV) Ladies and gentlemen, 60 years ago 43 000 innocent people, including children and old people, were deported from Latvia without trial.
The European Parliament in its written declaration clearly stated that 23 August ought to be recognised as a day of remembrance for the victims of Stalinism and Nazism, and nobody here ought to deny that either.
The Council must implement this decision by the European Parliament without delay, so that such crimes are never repeated in the future. - (LV) Madam President, Mr Vondra, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, those who have studied history in Europe, the majority I believe, know that the Second World War began on 1 September 1939, when Hitler invaded Poland.
Even fewer people know that for two years Stalin's regime supplied Hitler and Hitler's army with fuel and industrial materials so that Hitler could conquer Western Europe.
While Hitler had 400 parachutists ready, Stalin had prepared 1 million parachutists, ready to conquer.
There is still more: in relation to domestic policy, on 5 December 1937 those Latvians who had remained living in Soviet Russia began to be arrested and exterminated in their entirety.
Central and Eastern Europe and the Baltic states were victims equally of both Nazi and the Soviet dictatorships, yet we cannot equate Nazism with Stalinism.
For that reason, 9 May is felt differently by old and new Member States, especially the Baltic states, which lost their independent statehood and whose intelligentsia was wiped out.
We also know, however, how difficult it is express condemnation for the Communist regime equal to that for other totalitarian regimes.
This also provides the answer as to why in the future it will continue to be difficult for the European Parliament to condemn crimes equally, and why good and bad totalitarian regimes will always exist.
This was done in Romania in 2006 through the words of the country's president, as a result of a report compiled by a presidential commission set up for this purpose.
Anyone who has never lived under Communism cannot understand how much a person's life and way of thinking can be affected by a totalitarian system.
The European Union must call upon all of the countries which were previously ruled by Communist regimes to enable their historians to carry out research and include the whole truth about the post-war era in school textbooks.
The European Union should also call upon all of the Member States to consider renaming those streets and squares which are named after controversial heroes, such as Tito in Yugoslavia, who were accountable for many post-war killings, by virtue of their roles at the time. - (PL) Madam President, when I hear in this Chamber that the Communists are not prepared to hang their heads, despite the tens of millions of victims of the construction of the White Sea-Baltic Sea Canal, the millions of people deported to Siberia from many nations (including Russians, but the Poles alone have to be counted in millions), and the sentencing of entire nations to death, for example the Crimean Tartars, I am astounded and outraged.
Cavalry Captain Pilecki, who went into Auschwitz as a volunteer, and was later also imprisoned by the Communists, told his wife 'Auschwitz was only a game'.
We should honour those who fought against totalitarianism, and we should honour the memory of the victims. - (PL) Madam President, the European Community must make every effort to keep alive the memory of heroes and not to allow the trivialisation of totalitarian crimes.
The fate of those who resisted, of those who, like Cavalry Captain Pilecki, were murdered, should always be in our minds, especially because the idea of European integration arose among people opposed to Nazism and Communism.
Furthermore, it was this idea which prevented future conflicts and the emergence of totalitarian regimes after the end of the War.
Keeping the crimes of totalitarian regimes - Nazi and Communist - in the minds of Europeans can make us hope that our continent will never again be the scene of such tragic events. - Madam President, there is a further dimension to this debate.
Without a thorough scrutiny of its past, the Left in some of the former Communist states is obliged - compels itself - to live with a false past, a past from which all sorts of painful events are screened out.
It is highly important that the EU should also support the rights of minorities, especially since many countries all around the world do not respect very basic rights in this sense.
At the same time I would like to point out that, while the EU speaks out against discrimination and violation of human rights in cases like Tibet, it is clear to all of us that even within the European Union there are ethnic and linguistic minorities which are very often targets of cultural and linguistic assimilation.
I think we should speak openly about both of these forms of totalitarianism. - Madam President, we should do everything we can to halt Europe's moral decline.
This requires resources and I would like to thank the Commission and Commissioner Figeľ specifically for the fact that the Commission is willing to cooperate in this matter.
The hearing last week was presented jointly by the representatives of several similar institutions that exist at the national level and in my opinion there is a very urgent need to have such institutions at the pan-European level.
If the European Commission is willing to assist in this process, then I have already mentioned the next stages, which would involve completing studies of various methods and mechanisms of Member States in this area and submitting the awaited report next year.
I would like to end by stressing that the European Commission genuinely supports this process and that it will be looking for ways to assist it.
Thank you very much and my best wishes for an expansion not only of memory but also of responsibility. - The debate is closed.
I want to stress that as long as these violations of the law are allowed in Bulgaria and the state continues not to take any action on the issue, honest voters are in actual fact being deprived of their basic human right - the right to choose!
Many Europeans simply do not know what life was like under totalitarian systems, and someone who does not understand totalitarianism has a natural tendency to disregard crimes committed under such systems, seeing them instead as events which took place in the course of history.
