Crisis in the dairy farming sector (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission (B7-0208/2009) by Mr De Castro, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the crisis in the dairy farming sector.
The prices paid to milk producers have plummeted everywhere, averaging 24 cents per litre within the European Union.
On this front, first of all, we should continue to make use of all the measures at our disposal so as to stabilise the market and to stimulate an upturn in consumption, but at the same time we need to be able to look to the future with medium- and long-term policies and to do everything possible to identify acceptable and lasting solutions aimed at minimising the risk of price fluctuations.
In this context the Commission proposals extending the intervention period for butter and skimmed milk powder have been welcomed and accepted within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, as the unanimous vote of 2 September demonstrates.
For example, in the course of one month butter prices went up by 4% in France, 8% in Germany and even more in the UK.
Average milk prices have been going up, and Albert Deß just told me this morning that the spot market prices are now at 30 cents in certain areas.
Just for clarification to Paolo De Castro, intervention for cheese was actually abolished in 1994.
I think there must be some confusion between intervention and private storage because private storage was abolished by the decisions in the health check.
So, the idea of keeping the quota system after 2013 is not on the table.
At this moment, milk is not actually included in Article 186 of the single Common Market Organisation which allows the Commission to take temporary actions quickly under its own power during times of market disturbances.
I am therefore proposing that we include the dairy sector in Article 186, and this will enable us to spring into action in the future if we hit serious problems in the dairy sector.
I would like to thank France and Germany here for their ideas and their input on these different possibilities.
The first longer-term issue is about using contractual relations between milk farmers and the dairy industry to better balance supply and demand in the dairy market.
For me, the problem in the dairy market is not only an issue between the Commission and Member States.
Parliament actually plays an important role as well, and I am looking forward to the discussion here today on this important issue.
I know the figures for Germany, which show that around 100 000 tonnes is no longer being processed by the food industry, which corresponds to a million tonnes of milk.
I would like to thank the groups that have helped in drawing up our joint motion for a resolution.
I know a lot of farmers who are 58 years old and who would like to stop working soon.
Perhaps you will still have the chance to remedy this situation in the near future. (The President cut off the speaker) Commissioner, the Commission and the Council have taken a long time to react to the serious crisis affecting the sector.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, as we have heard from other speakers, there is a crisis in the milk sector.
Let us also be clear that, for too long, European consumers have paid for a dysfunctional agricultural policy which has failed both farmers and consumers.
The decision by Mrs Boel, Commissioner for Agriculture, to maintain the increase in quotas and the Council's wish to dismantle them by 2015 are a provocation to milk producers.
Times have changed.
In the face of this unprecedented crisis, the European Union must take significant steps, quickly.
The European Union must put a stop to its export refunds programme.
It has just committed the enormous sum of EUR 480 million, adopted with the backing of various parliamentary groups from both the right and the left, in order to sell its surpluses cheaply on the world markets.
Above all, the European Union must immediately make drastic reductions, of 5%, in European milk quotas, in a way that is inversely proportional to the volume delivered by small producers, in order to swiftly re-establish a balance between supply and demand.
We can either decide to help the industry, or we can decide that we will ultimately let our farmers go out of business: then we can import from abroad with all the problems that brings us.
I think we need to do more in the short term to help the industry through this present crisis.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to stress my doubts about the proposal to extend the 2009-2010 intervention period for butter and skimmed milk powder, since this proposal is in danger of turning short-term measures designed for the current crisis in the market into structural measures that would actually restore the dairy farming sector to the position it was in before quotas were introduced.
Currently dairy farmers receive just over 20 cents per litre for milk amid escalating costs.
In Northern Ireland not only have they had to contend with poor milk prices and high costs, but we have suffered a third consecutive wet summer and this has had a devastating effect on the dairy industry in Northern Ireland.
I want to say that, in relation to the future, your comments are particularly welcome.
I am worried that this House is divided on the issue of milk quotas because when we have codecision, if the Lisbon Treaty comes into force, we are going to have to think more coherently as a group and give clear signals to farmers rather than divided messages, so let me repeat that your comments about making links between producers and processors, about production levels, are something we need to explore, something we have to have a further debate on.
While the Commission's decision to extend the intervention period for butter and skimmed-milk powder until 2010 is very much welcome, short-term measures would not alleviate the pressure on dairy farmers in the long term.
You have recently announced that you are stepping down, and I would urge you to solve, or to make as much of a contribution to solving this problem as possible, before your departure. (ES) ¡Bon dia!
The current situation is unsustainable and requires a political solution.
The opportunity to produce milk should go mainly to producers who have low costs and who achieve a profit.
The work and the major cost in producing milk are borne by the farmer, but at the same time the supermarkets are reaping huge profits.
My Eastern European colleagues and I on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development warned on several occasions that we needed a much greater increase in quotas, or their total removal, because our countries, being new to the European Union's systems, were the first to feel the impact of the crisis.
The market itself offers the explanation for falling prices.
Because dairy production does not have a tap that we can just turn off and on... (The President cut off the speaker) As I was saying, what could European producers do, assuming demand on the global market picks up again?
We abandoned this one way street in 2003 and I appeal to you to keep it that way for the sake of our dairy farmers. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the world economic crisis has thrown the global market off balance.
The Commission's intervention measures have also succeeded in preventing milk prices from falling even further and the market seems to be relaxing.
The market is not working.
It would be very simple to freeze the 1% increase in quotas, or to reduce the quotas immediately by 3 to 5%, because we urgently need to come up with some short-term solutions.
We also support the proposal from Elisabeth Jeggle in favour of creating a EUR 600 million dairy fund and the extension of the school milk programme. (DA) Madam President, thank you Commissioner for a good start - and a good introduction to the debate!
I would definitely like to call on you, Mrs Fischer Boel, to reiterate what you have done.
I would also like to point out that the efforts that have been made thus far on behalf of the dairy farmers have clearly not been mirrored in relation to those workers in the car industry who have lost their jobs or those workers in the shipbuilding industry who have lost their jobs as a result of the current economic crisis.
The fact is we need a restrictive system for the dairy industry.
That is why we are calling on the Council to overturn your policy and instead to create a genuine policy to support dairy producers and to put an end to this policy of destroying them en masse. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, our debate really has taken place in the shadow of dramatic events related to farmers spilling milk in protest.
I would like to ask whether the Commissioner is interested in this matter and, generally, what the future prospects are in relation to these kinds of activities.
The main problem is the price at which milk is purchased from farmers.
The main problem, therefore, is that there is a large hole somewhere.
We are asking for specific advice or a proposal on how ... (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Mr President, we saved the banks, because we had to.
Now we are faced with a situation where we need to prevent thousands of farmers from going bankrupt in the short term because prices no longer cover production costs.
If we are not prepared to take the measures that have been called for in our resolution, the cost in terms of the social, economic and environmental policy consequences in the EU will be many times what ... (The President cut off the speaker) (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the European Commission stated in its communication of 22 July, the situation in the dairy farming sector has deteriorated dramatically during the last 12 months.
I do not underestimate - and I have been very precise on this since the very beginning of the discussion - that the dairy sector, not only in Europe but globally, finds itself in an unprecedented crisis.
The abolition of the quota system was decided back in 2003 so it is not a decision that was taken overnight while nobody knew what was happening.
Today in EU-10 we have 300 000 dairy farmers: less than one fifth of the number of dairy farmers today compared to 1984 with a quota system in place.
The vote will take place today at 12.00.
in writing. - (HU) The current dairy market crisis has been caused mainly by raising milk quotas.
The European Commission and Member States' governments are also responsible for the current grave situation affecting the dairy sector, as in 2008 they supported raising the quotas, resulting in the creation of milk surpluses and the collapse of prices.
However, the European Commission did not abandon its intention even when it became obvious that the production increase was contrary to market trends.
This is why the European Union must immediately drop its measures leading to an increase in dairy production.
I am pleased that, with a view to easing the crisis, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development voted in favour of my initiative, which would raise the export subsidies amount from EUR 450 million to EUR 600 million.
in writing. - Milk quotas need to be cut by between 5 to 10 per cent in order to push prices back up to a sustainable level.
While the Commission is correct to adopt a long-term view, it cannot detach itself from reality - and the stark reality is that the agriculture industry, in particular the dairy sector, is in real danger.
The producer price for milk fell, and at present many milk producers are having to sell dairy products at a price that does not reflect production costs.
Of course, I welcome the flexibility that it is permitting, which will enable the national aid ceiling to be increased from EUR 7 500 to EUR 15 000 for producers who are struggling.
I also believe that it is necessary, as seven Member States are requesting, to look at temporarily suspending the increase in quotas.
in writing. - (ET) Observing the present situation in the dairy market, it is clear that our sector is still largely unprepared to cope with the consequences of the global economic crisis.
Giving the common agricultural policy a 'check-up' is a step in the right direction, and maintaining the same direction in discussions of the common agricultural policy after 2013 is the only way to strengthen the sector.
The fall in the prices of milk and dairy products primarily affects farms with low incomes.
For this reason, I do not think that the quota system ought to be frozen in all Member States, but each state ought to decide how to set their own quotas.
