Taxation and customs policies and the Lisbon Strategy (debate) The next item is the report by Sahra Wagenknecht, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the contribution of taxation and customs policies to the Lisbon Strategy.
In brief: a socially balanced perspective and development is certainly not being promoted in the EU, but is virtually being stalled while those rolling in money are being treated to more and more tax breaks and fattened up even more while those who already have little are having to dig ever deeper into their pockets.
The fact that this process is in force - and has been for years and decades - can be very clearly demonstrated by the data on tax receipts and taxation rates in the EU.
The highest tax rates have been reduced virtually everywhere in the EU Member States.
Very appropriately my original report included the call not only for a common consolidated corporate tax base, which it does, of course, support, but also for EU-wide minimum tax rates on corporate profits, which should no longer be exceeded by any country thereafter.
Only minimum tax rates of this kind actually offer the opportunity to stop the upward trend in corporate taxes somewhere along the way.
Instead, my report bursts into a song of praise for tax competition in complete ignorance of the fatal consequences of this supposedly healthy tax competition for the revenue side of EU budgets and therefore for the situations in which millions of Europeans also find themselves.
It is clear that European companies deserve a system of corporate taxation adapted to the degree of their actual and potential economic integration at the scale of their cross-border activities in Europe.
This is in paragraph 17 of the Wagenknecht report, as it stands now, where it asks for the suppression of minimum rates for excise duties and the replacement of current Community legislation in this domain by a code of conduct.
Taxation has a crucial role to play in this respect, in bringing competitiveness to Europe.
We need more investments, more growth, and more, flourishing businesses in Europe.
However, the existence of 27 different tax regimes creates problems, particularly for European SMEs, which are so important to this growth.
The taxation policies of Member States can no longer be based exclusively and solely on national criteria: dialogue on taxation is becoming necessary to promote greater tax coordination throughout Europe.
The disagreements between the groups here in the European Parliament on the subject of taxation policy are becoming clearer and clearer.
However, this must be accompanied by similarly clear declarations as regards harmonising minimum tax rates, because otherwise it will lead to unchecked tax competition, specifically in this area.
Gordon Brown keeps on saying it is not a constitution, when all the EU leaders say it is: Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, José Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, Angela Merkel, even our own President of President said so in this Chamber a short while ago.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (RO) The importance of reviewing the contribution that the fiscal and customs policies could bring to the development of the Lisbon Strategy cannot be questioned.
Attempts by large Member States to giftwrap tax harmonisation in the flowery paper of CCCTB will not be accepted by Ireland or other Member States.
Different tax rates in EU Member States are not harmful.
The Member States' responsibility for taxation policies is laid down, whilst there are a number of taxes that would benefit from greater EU coordination.
In general, taxes should be lowered on work and raised on harmful consumption.
Firstly, moving away from tax competition and attempts to standardise solutions in the area of corporate income tax run counter to the principle of tax sovereignty for EU Member States.
The best example is the concepts that are used here, such as fiscal dumping or social dumping.
