For more than 15 years we have been trying, or rather the Commission has been trying, to lay down a regulatory framework in the form of an EU directive on airport charges.
On this occasion, too, there was a great deal of conflict and I cannot recall a single one of the 189 amendments in committee that was generally accepted by all the parties involved.
In Germany this area has been controlled at federal level and not by a national authority, while in the new Member States airport charges are needed to a large extent to develop the airport infrastructure.
I mention all these different interests if only to demonstrate how complicated these negotiations have been.
We have reduced the field of application to airports with either five million passenger journeys or more a year or 15% of the national passenger throughput in the Member State concerned, for in the case of regional airports with less than five million passengers a year the risk of an abuse of market power is either small or absent.
The directive will, in my opinion, make a significant contribution towards stabilising the inherent partnership that exists between airports and airlines and at the same time will strengthen Europe's position as an air transport hub.
I therefore call on Members to support the Committee on Transport and Tourism in tomorrow's vote on the directive at first reading.
The framework the directive establishes on this basis will allow us to provide a structure for dialogue between carriers and airports when determining and collecting charges.
I am not against regulating airports that are in a dominant market position, but I think regulating the majority of airports to catch the big boys, based on an arbitrary passenger figure in a one-cap-fits-all regulation, is a flawed process.
Thus we all understand that regulation is essential in this area, however there is also a risk that regulation may give the opposite effect - increased costs and expenditure may result in higher prices for the services provided by airports and this may in turn impact airlines.
As a member of the Liberal Group, I am for regulation and state intervention in business which is as low as possible, all the more as I spoke to emphasize that about 25 airports in the European Community abuse monopolistic power or seek to do this.
I believe that we have made a good decision in that we have only dealt with those principles which are truly necessary for there not to be a practice of Member States deviating and therefore playing off against each other.
We have not resolved all the issues.
An additional factor was the endless series of interventions in the course of the debate in the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
There is unfair competition whenever there is a lack of transparency, when there is concealed patronage and when there are hidden subsidies.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Mr President, airports have much more influence on our economy, our spatial planning, our traffic on the ground and our environment than we could have foreseen in the past.
An outcome is now taking shape in which airports with between 1 and 5 million passengers per year will not be covered by these rules.
We in the Committee on Transport and Tourism have made a few changes, and I hope, and indeed believe, that these are for the better.
Account should also be taken of the fact that in our compromise we have made provision for Member States to be given the opportunity, if necessary following an enquiry, to require other airports in the same Member State to comply with these regulations too.
Meanwhile that is over and done with, and so I think that we in Parliament should be more flexible in the remainder of the procedure. (LT) The directive proposed by the European Commission ensures cooperation between the institutions controlling airports and the users and this will not allow large airports to ignore the interests of clients and take a monopolistic position in the market.
Air transport has to meet the economic and social needs of regional communities and it is important to emphasize that 90 percent of European Union citizens live not in the capital cities.
Namely this will enable a more rapid pace of development at regional airports and ensure the social and economic development of regions in various countries.
The distribution of freight and passenger flows is a very important base for effective regional development.
The directive on airport charges aims to prevent potential abuses by airports enjoying a dominant position on the Union's market or in particular countries.
It was proposed because not all countries apply transparent procedures when calculating airport charges.
The new provisions are to apply to 67 large airports.
This would be of great assistance in financing their development. (PT) Mr President, in this one-minute speech I would like to highlight the amendments we tabled in order to ensure that this directive takes explicit account of the constraints suffered by regions that are permanently at a geographical and natural disadvantage, such as the outermost regions, particularly in accordance with Article 299(2) of the EC Treaty.
Adequate exceptions must therefore be included in the directive, hence the proposal that, for airports situated in these regions, the rules laid down in the directive will not apply where they will not guarantee compliance with the universal public service obligations.
Air connections to these areas are vital.
Amendments 9 and 16 take account of the existence of an airport network, but small airports are treated unfairly.
I hope Parliament will take into consideration the different conditions that exist in the Member States and shape the directive in a way which enables maintenance, development and funding of a national airport network on a uniform basis. (PL) Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that I appreciate the work undertaken by Mr Stockmann, the rapporteur, and by the Commission.
The original European Commission proposal that this directive would apply to all airports with passenger numbers greater than one million per annum was extremely worrying, particularly from an Irish viewpoint, because, if this approach had been adopted, then the directive would have applied to both Shannon and Cork airports, and possibly, in due course, to Ireland West Airport as it seeks to continue its expansion operations.
We will also see a strong independent regulation in all Member States to ensure that airports and airport users do not abuse their dominant market power.
The airport managing body may grant airport user concessions on charges based on the quality of a service used, provided that the concession in question is available to all users of the airport under publicised, transparent and objective conditions.
Member States should also use Structural Funds in order to develop the infrastructure of their regional airports.
According to Eurostat data on five new Member States, air passenger traffic increased by 25% in 2006 in relation to 2005.
In some cases they are right; the more sizeable airports in the EU, like London Heathrow and Paris Charles de Gaulle, should be regulated so they are not in a position to abuse their market dominance.
And, where an airport accounts annually for more than 15% of the passenger movements in the Member State, that is better too - but still arbitrary.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to ask the Commissioner about those points on which our position in the committee differed significantly from the Commission proposal: firstly, on reducing the scope of the directive to 5 million passenger movements; secondly, on the inclusion of airport networks, which is a completely new point; thirdly, on firming up the responsibilities of the regulatory authorities and allowing them to delegate duties to regional bodies; fourthly, on pre-financing, which the Commission had not included, even though it is allowed under the ICAO.
Mr Stockmann, the Commission can take over 21 of the amendments that contribute to that objective.
I would mention, in particular, the amendment on the definition of a charge, Amendment 12, and the amendments on airport networks, Amendments 14 and 16, with a few changes to the wording.
However, 27 of the amendments tabled by your rapporteur cannot be taken over as they stand and would need to be discussed in more detail.
These include, in particular, the amendments on security charges: Amendments 13, 21, 22, 23, 24.
A compromise was reached during conciliation and it seems, Mr Stockmann, that these amendments are therefore no longer necessary at this stage.
We therefore feel that Amendment 7 in part, Amendment 16 in part, Amendment 19 and Amendment 20 are unnecessary.
Nor can the Commission accept the amendments on the pre-financing of airport infrastructures.
However, there are also some new points that have not yet even been discussed, such as setting national upper limits on charges.
Moreover, Member States may apply the provisions of this Directive to other airports within their territory, thus encouraging competition and implicitly reducing airport charges, for the benefit of end-users.
