Unlike the previous dossier, this is a first reading, but we provisionally have informal agreement in trialogue, which will mean that there is first-reading agreement, assuming colleagues support it in the vote tomorrow.
They invigorate the social dialogue between management and workers in more than 820 companies.
They make it possible for almost 15 million workers to be informed and consulted not only at a local level but also at a European and even a global level.
The Commission has always supported dialogue between the social partners and it has therefore welcomed this initiative.
I am of course thinking of the Commission, which submitted a proposal for a recast on 2 July 2008; I am also thinking of the European social partners, who, in summer 2008, submitted eight joint proposals within the framework of a joint opinion; and I am obviously thinking of the European Parliament and the rapporteur it appointed to draft this text, Mr Bushill-Matthews, whom I thank for the quality of his work.
It is also with this objective of legal certainty in mind that the text being submitted to you safeguards the agreements concluded during the previous window, which was opened between 1994 and 1996, after the entry into force of the current directive.
It is also important that it be a vote in favour because the people of Europe need powerful messages that show that social Europe is getting off the ground again in 2008 and that it is not about talk, that it is capable of concrete action that will improve their everyday lives.
Lastly, it is important that it be a vote in favour because social dialogue must be encouraged in Europe, and this hinges on the implementation of new works councils and the development of joint actions undertaken by the European social partners as a whole, as has been the case in this matter.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the agreement reached with the Council on Works Councils proves that the social Europe that we need so much is being built brick by brick.
It also proves that, in this emerging social Europe, social dialogue has found its bearings.
That is why we have to move forward and endorse the agreement at first reading, after having thanked the rapporteur for the quality of his work and his listening skills.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, when the management of Nokia in Finland decided to close the Nokia factory in Bochum and relocate to Romania, the workers affected - 2 000 lost their jobs - found out via the newspaper.
If the amendments had been in place earlier, a case like that of Nokia would not have happened.
It is therefore necessary to actually bring into force this minimal claim to democracy that we now have in the directive.
and the trade unions is behind what we debated in Parliament in 2001.
Of course, tomorrow, at first reading, we have to win our case, but it is obvious, too, that we need to look at how all this is applied and how we will be able to ensure that a review can take place. (ET) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen.
Without casting doubt on the need to rephrase the directive at this time and in this situation, I nevertheless believe that a revised and updated version of the directive should be submitted to legislative procedure in the future; in other words, during the period of the next European Parliament.
This is essential.
However - and this is the important point - at least something is happening. (RO) The European Works Council and the procedure for informing and consulting employees in undertakings or groups of undertakings are vital instruments in offering employees protection.
The social partners were consulted in accordance with Article 139 and eventually signalled their inability or unwillingness to negotiate a framework agreement.
The Article 139 and 138 procedures need to be kept clearly separated.
There must be a clear distinction between the social dialogue and the European Parliament.
Lastly, it shows the quality of the work and the cooperation between the three institutions - the Commission, Parliament and the Council - since, if Parliament so decides tomorrow, we will have reached an agreement at first reading, and we can only be pleased about that.
My view is that we would have achieved a first-reading agreement even if we had not gone through this particular process.
