The summit in Lisbon provided a powerful direction for the Union in creating a competitive, world-leading, dynamic economy with social cohesion.
Rising to this challenge is a joint necessity for all fifteen Member States.
The fourth point we are adding is for the candidate countries to also take part in the Lisbon Process in the future.
These four elements are thus being added but the Lisbon Process is, of course, just a process, a development.
The guidelines have been set and have once more been confirmed by the European Council in Stockholm.
The first issue is the creation of an internal European market for financial services.
The first Ecofin meeting in Stockholm was a major breakthrough in the area of financial services and risk capital, which was then confirmed in conjunction with the meeting of the European Council.
The European Council saw intense debate on the following: If certain Member States open up their gas and electricity markets to competition, will this, in the long term, result in an impossible situation should other Member States refrain from doing so.
Should this be the case, we will gradually end up in a situation in which certain companies in monopoly markets are creating profits which will then be used in marketing offensives in other countries which have opened up their markets.
There are still certain things which need to be clarified, for example concerning finance, but we consider this a socially beneficial project which must be carried out and as quickly as possible.
We have a new intermediate target for the general employment rate in 2005, namely 67 percent overall and 57 percent for women.
In terms of equal opportunities we seek to create not only a social Europe but also a modern Europe.
The Equal Opportunities Directive will be adopted and made more stringent this year, which is also a result of the Stockholm Council.
The quality of workplaces must also be developed.
Our main discussion, however, concerned financial development in Russia and opportunities for economic cooperation between Russia and the European Union.
Thirdly, we said that we will actively participate in the upcoming anniversary celebrations in St Petersburg in 2003.
The President' s visit was an expression of our commitment in the Balkans.
The fourth foreign policy question which was discussed was the situation in the Middle East, which is ever present in the minds of all politically involved Europeans.
War, conflict and destruction in the Middle East are matters which also affect us.
All of us in the Union, whatever country we live in, have a deep personal involvement in this part of the world.
We believe that our agriculture ministers have already done so.
The Kyoto negotiations are the instrument we have for addressing the change in fundamental living conditions that the climate represents.
We therefore will be well placed to emphasise the declaration which the European Council adopted in Stockholm as an annex to its conclusions repeating our commitment to the Kyoto Protocol.
As you will remember, our report takes stock of Europe's progress in implementing the Economic and Social Agenda agreed upon at Lisbon.
The Stockholm Summit was the first summit specifically dedicated to assessing our progress and to setting the priorities for the next 12 months.
I also greatly appreciated the opportunity he gave us to meet President Putin and to discuss with him the European Union's partnership with Russia.
Indeed, President Putin assured us that Russia and the European Union share common values.
As Prime Minister Persson said, the discussions focused primarily on economic reforms in Russia, but the situation in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia received close attention as well.
As expected, the European Council assured President Trajkovski of its full support for the territorial integrity of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia but, at the same time, the Union called upon President Trajkovski to take the grievances of the Albanian minority in his country into consideration.
In any case, it would be a mistake to allow the current crisis in the FYROM to deflect us from our objective of helping the country integrate more closely with the European Union.
At the same time, we must strive to bring about long-term stability in the Balkan region, and this means using all the tools available to us to integrate, little by little, the entire region into the European Union.
Milosevic's departure from the scene is an important step forwards in this direction, bringing years of war and hatred to an end.
I would now like to move on to the debate on the Economic and Social Agenda taking place in the European Council.
Now things have changed and we can see that Europe is in a position of strength in three respects.
Our concern is reflected in a joint letter from Prime Minister Persson and myself to President Bush.
It is with precisely this in mind that the Commission announced its undertaking to issue a Communication on the quality and sustainability of pensions in the light of demographic change.
On the basis of these premises, the Commission urged the European Council to commit the Member States to taking action at the very least in six key sectors in which fresh impetus is needed.
At Stockholm, I outlined the state of play to the European Council, including the fresh undertaking by the private sector to provide immediate funding of EUR 200 million.
We need a regulatory system which makes it possible for us to keep pace with this rapidly changing market.
This body will act as a regulatory committee and assist the Commission in decisions regarding the measures to be adopted to implement practically the legislative acts agreed upon between the Council and Parliament in codecision.
I have to say that these positions taken up by the Member States seem to run counter to the interests of their own economic operators, who are constantly calling for us to produce a simple, clear, competitively priced Community patent.
As we all know, a whole series of major proposals is currently blocked until Spain and the United Kingdom come to a bilateral agreement on Gibraltar.
Postal services are to be deregulated by the end of 2001, and the liberalisation of the energy markets will continue on the basis of the extremely clear, precise proposals we have already tabled.
In any case, sustainability issues will have to be tackled within the framework of a more general European strategy for sustainable development, which will be one of the main focuses of the Gothenburg Summit in June.
Ladies and gentlemen, Stockholm has provided us with a very good basis for action over the next 12 months.
It is all very well and very necessary to agree on targets, to set up task forces and to develop indicators and strategic visions, but what matters is action: action to create jobs and disseminate new skills, action to recruit and train teachers, action in national parliaments to cut red tape, action by governments and industry to invest in people.
You still have plenty of opportunity in the remaining three months to implement what Sweden stands for, namely transparency.
A little more modesty would do us good.
We hear talk of the Union as the most competitive and dynamic science-based economic area in the world.
The freedom of the press and media is one of the principles of democracy, in both the European Union and Russia.
I should like to address a further point, namely developments in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
I am delighted that the High Representative, Javier Solana, Commissioner Patten and the foreign minister of Sweden, Anna Lindh, as President-in-Office, are making this a focal point of their work and that - despite all the institutional complications which this entails - they are clearly all working well together.
The acid test, namely whether or not we help to bring about peace and stability, will be in the former Yugoslavia.
We are still at the level of the Single Act; we have the codecision procedure and we have the common foreign and security policy and we hope to be able to reach an agreement with you for there to be a balanced relationship in the legislative field between the Council and Parliament.
I believe this is the framework within which we have to work together, and I should especially like to thank the Swedish Presidency for always placing such importance on social cohesion, because I think this expresses a fundamental value for Europeans.
In connection with the liberalisation of services and electricity and gas, the Socialist Group thinks that apart from its inherent worth it brings up a key issue: the power relations in society and the economy.
We criticise the United States a lot because President Bush has unilaterally denounced the Kyoto Protocol, but we never ask ourselves why he has done so.
Funding must have limits, and a basic principle of democracy is that there should not be any accumulation of power.
For us it is essential that there should not be unlimited economic powers.
As for our external relations, we are very concerned, not only because the United States has unilaterally denounced the Kyoto Protocol, but also because we notice a growing unilateral outlook in the United States in relation to issues that affect the international community.
The Swedish Presidency has the responsibility of organising a democratic and transparent debate on the future of Europe in the best Swedish tradition.
The Swedish Presidency should consider, support and improve this proposal at the Gothenburg European Council.
We have high expectations in connection with the key issues identified by Sweden, and we hope that Sweden will also make transparency a key issue.
The significance of this resolution is a clear political signal to both the Council and the Commission.
This is not a statement before the event: a number of indicators are already set to red, whether in the field of sustainable development, in transport, in energy - not to mention the common agricultural policy - or in employment, where most of the new jobs being created are vulnerable, and where not enough of the added value is accounted for by wages.
I think it would be more reasonable for the European Union to adopt legislation imposing social and ecological obligations on companies.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, other members of my Group will be speaking on various aspects of the Stockholm European Council.
We could thus help to create, at our level, an effective monitoring device, which would be able to put some meat on the bones of the intermediate employment objectives that the Stockholm European Council has just set itself.
Madam President, the Stockholm Summit was hardly the greatest diplomatic achievement with regard to the development of the European Union; however, the business conducted at the Stockholm Council did certainly reflect the reality of what is happening in the European Union at this time.
European Union leaders demonstrated solidarity in the face of the problem of foot-and-mouth disease, which threatens the European agricultural sector at this time.
Some progress was certainly made towards achieving the targets set at Lisbon last year to make the EU the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by the year 2010.
The Member States of the European Union are fully committed to the goal of full employment and we also see the achievement of this objective as an important way of meeting the challenge of an ageing population in Europe.
Certainly, much progress has been made in the last 12 months with regard to educating and training the European workforce in the benefits which lie open for us all from the use of the Internet and related e-commerce opportunities.
The issue of how best the Union is going to deal with future public and private pension programmes is a serious matter, which must be addressed by all EU Member States as a matter of priority.
On this latter point, any further liberalisation of postal service operations in Europe must be fair and must be balanced and postal services play an important social and economic function in rural towns and villages within the Union.
I certainly will not support a situation whereby postal service operations will be cherry-picked by private operators, servicing only key lucrative urban areas which will benefit from such reform programmes at the expense of the rural parts.
Finally, certainly an achievement of the Council at Stockholm was the agreement to fast-track the development of a common approach for the regulation of financial services within the Union.
On 19 March, the Council also decided that future relaxations in the rules of confidentiality must be adopted by qualified majority voting and not, as is the case at present, by a simple majority.
It is those three countries which are the villains in the negotiations concerning transparency.
The Council' s new rules on confidentiality are clearly unlawful.
The Council cannot itself alter the Treaty' s regulations from simple to qualified majority voting.
The new rules directly interfere with the section in the Treaty of Amsterdam promising new rules on transparency.
Those three countries have placed the Swedish Presidency in such a humiliating position that it is having to betray its own key concerns regarding transparency and deliver secrecy instead.
To that extent, we need the commendable Swedish rules on the right of access to documents and the freedom to provide information.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, President Prodi has communicated his concern about the situation of the press, of the mass media in Russia.
He is lamenting something which is the result of a policy that he himself helped to develop.
This European Union policy on Russia is a policy of tolerance, a policy of prostituting our values, Mr President.
What is happening now to the mass media has already happened in Central Asia in those ex-Soviet countries in which President Putin is re-establishing a postcolonial policy, a region which the European Union does not see the strategic importance of, just as it does not recognise the strategic importance of the Caucasus region.
Mr President of the Commission, I have run out of patience, and I call upon you formally to remove Commissioner Nielson's mandate for humanitarian aid.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council has set itself the ambitious target of achieving full employment in Europe by 2010.
In this sense, the lack of agreement on Community patents is disappointing.
The 15-page conclusion document mainly describes decisions intended to be taken at a later date.
One point in the conclusions addresses the upcoming WTO negotiations, and I concur with that stated.
My second question concerns enlargement.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Parliament welcomes the onset of spring at the Stockholm Summit.
We need the ambitious strategy of change decided in Lisbon.
The European Parliament wants speed and flexibility in the legislative area - just as you do - and welcomes the Lamfalussy report.
We here in the European Parliament want the rights which the Council already enjoys.
Just one more thing: we also want more democracy and a real partnership when the economic policy guidelines are decided.
Both the Commission and the Council really can help in this regard and I call on them to do so.
In Lisbon what was agreed upon was a process of economic liberalisation, a process of structural reforms, the consolidation of the single European market and a move towards a single market for services, with the ambition of making the European economy the most competitive internationally by 2010, without, of course, giving up the social dimension or the levels of well-being that characterise the societies belonging to the Union.
At this European Council, however, we have found that the individual interests of Member States have blocked necessary processes of liberalisation.
Others, through internal disputes, as the Swedish Prime Minister has said in his capacity as President of the Council, have not been able to reach the necessary agreement for the single European sky, and so it has not been possible to turn what were good proposals at Lisbon into a reality.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, if Europe wants to be more significant in the world, it has to increase in size, but Europe must also be more democratic and more transparent.
I would add that the Europe of the Member States is not sufficiently European.
For example, you mentioned a shortage in the workforce, but there are regions in Europe which have unemployment of 6% or even of 16% and 20%.
Mr President, in my view the emphasis at the Stockholm Summit lay on developing the internal market, in other words on economic liberalisation as stated earlier.
This was to be achieved by reducing the number of women at home in Europe and by retaining the elderly on the labour market for a few more years.
However, I would like him to summon all the determination and courage which he has displayed on other occasions and make it clear that the single currency is going to come into force next year and that, if certain large-scale reforms which should have been dealt with at Stockholm are not completed before then, we will be in danger of having a currency but no control over the economy, with the consequences which are already apparent in Europe and the world.
The European Council' s lucid explanation in Stockholm seems to contradict this negative interpretation.
The role of NATO in this European policy on crisis management is unmistakable.
However, this encouraging note is not in accordance with the press information I received yesterday.
Mr President, in economic and social terms, the Stockholm Council set itself a major strategic objective: to define the main conditions necessary in order to turn Europe into a competitive area with full employment.
We very much doubt whether the Heads of State or Government were really able to examine all these subjects, and we very much doubt whether it is possible to make things happen by using such methods.
The Council' s conclusions contain, buried somewhere beneath a mass of words, an indication that, in less than 300 days, the euro should be circulating in the form of notes and coins, but there is no mention of the organisational reforms needed to extricate it from its present weak position in the exchange markets.
When, in the same connection, he says the IMF would probably lower its forecast for growth for the euro area for this year to 2.5%, we can see that the financial players have reacted to the totally indecisive outcome of the Stockholm Summit with as much disappointment as my own Group, the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, here in Parliament.
We have thus already fallen below the 3% growth target that was set for the mid term as a basis for sustaining and improving employment and social security in Europe.
We have to remember that the decisions that are now required concerning European patents, the liberalisation of competition among the gas and electricity boards and in the Post Office, making air traffic more flexible, Galileo, and other matters, will not result in any real changes until four to ten years have gone by after the political decision is taken.
Hopefully, it will encourage not just us in the European Union, but the Russians too, to seek and find suitable targets of cooperation in other areas.
Our Group, undoubtedly like many others here, welcomes this arrest with open arms.
The fact that this step was ultimately taken indicates that another move has been made towards more integration within our law-based community, also here in Europe.
At the same time, our wish remains, of course, to ultimately see Mr Milosevic brought before the International War Tribunal in The Hague.
We have to say that, for all the problems in the past, we still have a great deal of respect for the way in which Mr Patten and Mr Solana dealt with the situation there, in tandem with the Swedish Presidency.
Once again, the Association Agreement too could be an excellent tool in this respect.
With regard to the Middle East, the Ministers Perez and Nabil Shaath of the Palestinian Authority are supposed to meet in Athens today.
In actual fact, violence increases with each passing day, while we would like to return to the old agreements, which, at the very least, ensure that both parties keep their own troops in check, and retrace our steps in terms of violence.
We hope that Moratinos, our representative, in conjunction with Mr Solana and the Swedish Presidency, succeed at least in bringing those parties around the negotiating table once more, for there is no other alternative.
The Swedish Presidency has, traditionally, always played a very clear role, not as the Swedish Presidency, but as Sweden in the UN Security Council.
As Europe, we must counter this with intelligent, partnership-focused policy, and I expect that the Swedish Presidency, together with our former fellow MEP, Mr Schori from the Security Council on behalf of the Swedish Presidency, can play an excellent role in this matter.
The Swedish Presidency has an overall vision of bringing the Union closer to its citizens.
One issue is becoming ever clearer: - It is becoming more and more problematic for Sweden to remain outside the EMU.
Human rights organisations such as the United Nations and Amnesty International and Israeli organisations such as Betrelem also condemn this.
I feel that this is extremely important: we must speak out for peace, but peace in respect for all ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, the excessive optimism in the wake of Stockholm and the numerous objectives on the agenda do not reflect the bitter, discouraging reality.
In other words, the single currency will not suffice without reform of the financial market.
It is pointless to attempt to achieve a stable European Union without a genuine, effective foreign policy.
The third point that I wish to address concerns the Council itself.
I think that, if we want to implement a reform process, the Council of Ministers must become more transparent, more efficient and more open.
I think that, for this reason, now that we are heading for a Union of 27 members, the question of legislating in public needs to be raised.
I would also like to congratulate him on a successful meeting in Stockholm.
We can never create a Europe for its citizens if these ingredients are not also present.
This, together with an active labour market policy, means an increased supply of labour but also reduced unemployment.
Mr President, acting President of the Council, I welcome the addition to the agenda of the Stockholm Summit in which sustainable development and environmentally-driven growth are to be incorporated into the Lisbon strategy.
Ecofin' s structural indicators were adopted in full but not a single environmental indicator was included, not even the Commission' s proposal for indicators on energy efficiency nor any indicators on emissions of greenhouse gases.
In this sense the Stockholm Summit was a disappointment.
Yesterday, we received a visit from Mr Sakharov' s widow in the group.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, Stockholm has highlighted at least three subjects on which I should like to comment this morning.
I believe that if we look at the situation with regard to Ericsson in Sweden and Marks &amp; Spencer or Danone in France, it is time to start asking questions about the cost of the growth that we are in the process of creating.
In that respect, Mr President of the Council, when you call for a balance between liberalisation and social responsibility, it seems to us that you are in agreement with the real concerns of our fellow citizens.
From this point of view, I believe, and this will be my second point, that any progress that can be made in restructuring our services of general interest is essential.
Many people have already said this before me: Lisbon marked a certain stage, and Stockholm makes it official.
It seems to us essential that the conclusions that you adopted regarding better coordination between the Luxembourg process, the social agenda, the Lisbon process and the broad guidelines of economic policy should enable this spring Council to rediscover, or discover, its true role, that of defining policy on the basis of the preparatory work carried out by the Commission, which enables everybody to play their part, the Commission in its role as instigator, and the European Council in its role as policy maker.
Then again, in using these methods, it seems to us that, if we want to take into consideration this social responsibility that you have talked about, Mr President, we shall also have to modify our indicators.
I would, in turn, like to refer to the Belgian Presidency, for Stockholm has given this Belgian Presidency a number of very essential and firm mandates.
First and foremost, it was given the mandate to formulate goals with a view to taking up the fight against poverty and social exclusion in concrete terms at European level.
However, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, choices must be made in these areas too.
This brings me to my final point, Mr President-in-Office: the quality of work.
We therefore expect an extra effort, both from the Commission and from the Council, to provide us with a revised directive on European works councils, within the framework of restructuring - which we are now experiencing once again - and to make a start on the directive on information and advice as a matter of urgency.
I have very great respect for the colleagues who, in their respective countries, are to begin this process in a number of central areas and deal with the political debate which many of us have already had in our countries.
The process is heading in the right direction, and we are implementing it in such a way that we have the support of national political opinion in each country.
Our work in this respect is characterised by the fact that unemployment is best combated by economic growth and economic development.
These negotiations are difficult and we are in the middle of them.
I am hopeful that, in the negotiations in the spring during the Swedish Presidency, we shall achieve success that we will be able to describe as a breakthrough.
What is important for us now is to jointly ensure that the Union' s economy is in as good a condition as possible on the day, in almost a year' s time, when the single European currency is introduced.
I would also like to thank the Commission for working so well with us in the run-up to the Stockholm Summit.
This is a clear commitment made by Parliament and all of us.
And, as Europeans, we must have a general sense of responsibility towards all the citizens of the world.
I would like to make it clear that the agreement reached in Stockholm refers to a Decision on comitology, reproducing the 1999 Decision word for word - what is known colloquially as the Aerosol case - including the statements it contains and the Commission's statement.
Indeed, Parliament will be able to comment on the distinction between the essential elements and the technical provisions of the measures proposed by the Commission.
I wanted to point this out because it would be a shame for the progress of such an important matter as this, decided upon at Stockholm - the most important decision taken in Stockholm - to be hampered by our procedural problems or our difficulties in adopting a common position.
This will be extremely important at the Gothenburg Council.
But if we do not learn to do this as well, all the decisions we take will have to be revised in the future.
Mr President, it was not only courteous of the Swedish Prime Minister to come here, but also rather courageous.
As so many speakers have said, on the economic front, Stockholm was a great disappointment.
With the great events taking place in the world, it was as if the Stockholm Summit was ignoring them.
For example, the General Affairs Council on 19 March decided once again not to table a critical motion in the United Nations sub-committee in Geneva, dealing with human rights abuses in China.
This is our great neighbour to the east.
I wish to concentrate on two issues which I know Parliament considers to be of the utmost importance, namely the Galileo project and the future of postal services.
Having the opportunity to speak in this debate gives me the chance to welcome not only the Council's conclusions on the creation of a single European sky, but its determination to submit proposals on slot allocation at Community airports to Parliament by June.
With regard to Galileo it is worth remembering that this programme was actually instigated by the Council in March 1998.
But then, to be blunt, the Council, no doubt under pressure from finance ministers, got cold feet.
I accept that the cost of Galileo is around EUR 3 billion, which means the involvement of the private sector is essential, but the benefits to Europe in both economic and social terms will be immense.
So when I read in the Stockholm conclusions that the Council wishes to work with Parliament, I welcome this.
But I would remind the Council that Parliament's position is clear, unambiguous and has been arrived at with a clear political consensus across political divides.
This solution is clear: accept Parliament's position, abandon the extreme policies put forward by Commissioner Bolkestein and I am sure we can have an agreement on the future of postal services within days.
Mr President, I should like to begin by pointing out on the positive side that the Stockholm European Council has emphasised the strategy drawn up in Lisbon, and has even added to and strengthened it in certain concrete matters.
The importance placed on the Social Agenda is certainly very positive, particularly regarding the social security and health care systems, the setting of employment rates, the willingness to cut public subsidies (although I would have liked us to have gone further), the development of new technologies, or the decision to create a European Food Authority.
In contrast, as regards the liberalisation processes, Mr Prodi, serious asymmetries are being created within the European Union, and this urgently requires draft legislation to regulate intra-Community investments, as almost all the Parliamentary Groups reminded Mr Bolkestein yesterday.
Part of the Community acquis too, Mr Prodi, is the Gibraltar clause, which does not date back to the eighteenth century but to a 1987 agreement between the governments of the United Kingdom and Spain, within which we must push forward in order to finalise this agreement in Gothenburg.
VOTE Pursuant to Rules 15 and 18 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall now proceed to the election of a Vice-President.
and resumed at 12.35 p.m.) Report (A5-0113/2001) by Mr Blak, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, concerning discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the 1999 financial year (Commission) [SEC(2000) 537 - C5-0310/2000 - 2000/2155(DEC)] Before the vote: Mr President, normally any corrigenda to the various language versions are announced before the vote commences.
I maintain that the corresponding Spanish translation of the English text is 'autoridades competentes' , because that is the truth and that is what is correct.
Mr President, this misunderstanding has already been cleared up in the Committee on Budgetary Control and I am therefore most surprised that it should be raised yet again.
Trakatellis report (A5-0104/2001) Mr President, as the UK Labour delegation spokesperson on health, I would like to give an explanation of vote on the Trakatellis report.
However, I would like to make it clear that the proposal for the centre mentioned in the Trakatellis report gives us great concern.
Therefore, it is important that we get this proposal through as quickly as possible.
Mr President, as the elected representative of the Pensioners' Party to this Parliament, I was very happy to vote for the Trakatellis report, a very important report.
The EU's intentions in the particularly sensitive area of public health are clearly set out in the conclusions of the recent Council summit in Stockholm.
In its specific action plan in the public health sector for 2001-2006, the ÅU caters to the aims and needs of big business and the monopolies in the health sector.
Unfortunately, he then contradicts his good intentions by using his report to commend and back the EU's aggressive, anti-grass roots policy in the public health sector.
First, the harmonisation of the health policies of European countries would be a sensible decision, provided that it is in an upward direction, and second, the budget planned for a health policy at European Union level is ridiculously small.
A valid health policy requires resources that the Commission is refusing to provide itself with.
We have therefore abstained from voting on this report, though we have voted on certain proposals.
We vehemently rejected this because this is a matter for the Member States.
In addition, there is a series of calls which go against the principle of subsidiarity, such as recommendations for school education programmes, quality standards applicable to health and training and further training.
We disapprove of both past budgets and the future budget, and of the very function of a Commission that is entirely in the service of industrial and financial groups.
There is no clear statement that the way in which the case was handled after January 1994 was illegal.
I find it unacceptable that the budgetary authority called for but, as the rapporteur details in annex 2 to his report, failed to receive 11 audit reports, including all the delegations' audit reports.
I also feel that I must abide by the resolution passed by plenary in December 2000 on the so-called Morgan report to the effect that, in future, discharge must be postponed if the documents requested have not all been submitted by the Commission.
van der Laan report (A5-0108/2001) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, I voted for this report, which regulates and comments on the granting of discharge to a number of European Union bodies, and I would like to explain why I voted for one specific heading: the heading on the budget set aside for the Committee of the Regions.
In my opinion, the regions in Europe should be more highly valued and their importance stressed and appreciated because I feel that the future of Europe is, on the one hand, Europe, and, on the other, the regions of Europe.
The national States have to decide to take a step backwards.
Seppänen report (A5-0097/2001) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, the Seppänen report comments on the abolition of the ECSC.
Rühle report (A5-0109/2001) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, I told you just now that I had dropped off for a moment.
Member States need to be much more proactive in recognising the special needs of the disabled, and we hope that they will very much take on board the thrust as well as some of the specific ideas in this report.
We particularly applaud two firsts today - the appearance of the report in Braille in three languages, and the use of sign language in the debate.
However, the same basic barriers and problems still exist.
Some Member States and some NGOs have valiantly brought forward innovative initiatives to remove the barriers and obstacles to equal opportunity for all.
This report calls for an equal treatment directive covering a range of areas such as employment, education and training, transport, the information society and consumer policy.
It also underlines the need to mainstream disability issues into all policies.
The EU Heads of State or Government at the Lisbon and Stockholm Summits aimed to create the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-driven economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by quantitative and qualitative improvement of employment and of greater social cohesion.
However, we have a desperate shortage of skilled workers in the IT sector across the European Union.
I fully support measures to improve accessibility for people with disabilities in all areas of life ranging from employment to IT.
It refers to the 1996 communication concerning equal opportunities for people with disabilities, recognising their rights, rather than regarding them as people in need of charity.
The concept of people with disabilities includes all types of disability, whether physical, mental or sensory.
The lack of statistics on this subject has been apparent since 1998.
In order to remedy it, Eurostat will be supplying three studies: a new module of the survey on the workforce in March 2003, the publication, at the beginning of 2001, of indicators that can be used as a basis for analysing the level of participation of disabled persons in the employment market, cultural life, and a broadening of the scope of the survey by the Community household panel on the daily obstacles perceived in each household.
The report makes a useful point in emphasising that the initial barriers to people with disabilities arise mainly during childhood.
This also qualifies as consumer and social policy because more competition means cheaper prices.
I hope the SFOR stabilisation force will pluck up the same courage to arrest Karadzic, for now that Belgrade has been able to take this step, we cannot afford to lag behind in Bosnia.
The Council must therefore exert pressure on all those who are responsible for SFOR to arrest Karadzic.
I believe it is absolutely vital that he should be brought to The Hague, and that Serbia should certainly not form an exception in this respect.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals made by Alexander Lamfalussy on the type of legislative process needed in connection with the implementation of the financial services package are a step in the right direction because, for the first time, a clear distinction has been made here between the law, the directive, the regulation passed by the Council and Parliament and the technical implementation of the directive.
As a result, adjustments to new developments in the technical sector can be made much more quickly than was the case in the past.
even the regulations issued on this basis, often conceal problems for our citizens.
The Lamfalussy report is based on one sure fact: the legislative procedure we have is too slow and prevents us from shaping legislation to market needs in time.
What the Lamfalussy report does not say is that the point where legislation on this matter normally gets bogged down is in the Council.
What Parliament is asking is that when a rule of enforcement goes too far in relation to general principles, it must not be seen as a mandatory rule but as an unlawful one.
That is what the theory of the mandate says, which I learnt in Roman Law, or the theory of the delegation of powers, which I learnt in Political Law.
But perhaps the most important thing in this deviation of the Lamfalussy report, which has been taken up by the Stockholm Council, is the intergovernmental deviation to the detriment of the Community method of drawing up rules, and secondly, and even more importantly, the desire to speed up the liberalisation of the internal financial services market without, at the same time, adjusting the rules and measures that provide controls or safeguards.
Under these conditions we could find ourselves with a hypermarket with no political control, in which the nation states are subordinated to semi-political decisions made by economic agents that would move with absolute freedom around the Union.
Mr President, a decision with serious consequences for Europe and its information society will be taken tomorrow.
The infrastructure created by Galileo will have a much higher added value in the future than other previous infrastructure measures.
Technologically-minded young people in Europe will find attractive new jobs through Galileo.
Mr President, on the Galileo project I would like to seek some clarification from the Commission and the Council on important issues which need to be addressed before the definitive phase of the project can be approved.
The Memorandum of Understanding signalling the provisional funding from private bodies of EUR 200 million needs further explanation.
We need firm assurances that investments in the Galileo project will produce an adequate return.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow.
Mr President, today we are debating the annual report on the area of freedom, security and justice created at the Tampere Summit in October 1999.
And, of course, being a Community of justice also means that we require not only that candidate countries comply with the acquis communautaire, but that we implement and comply with our own resolutions and legal acts.
Hence, our main question to the Council and to the Commission is, what is the current state of play as regards the implementation of the agreements and resolutions which form part of the acquis communautaire, what is the timetable here and why are there still so many delays in this area?
But, to prevent freedom from being abused, we need security, because without security and without justice, freedom is the law of the strongest.
The European Parliament suggested this on my initiative three years ago.
I am grateful that a few Member States are now pressing in the Council for uniform border controls on the external borders of the European Union.
But we also want to ask the Council in this extremely important debate exactly how it sees its responsibility vis-à-vis the European Parliament.
We have begun excellent collaboration with the Commission and with Commissioner Vitorino but we have identified a number of clear deficits as regards cooperation in the area of justice and internal affairs.
We are holding today' s debate without a written annual report or any documents on the part of the Council on what has been done and still needs to be done in this crucial political area.
The Commission scoreboard here is exemplary.
But there is no annual report from the Council on what happened in the year 2000 in this crucial area.
I think that Parliament should be properly informed and taken into account and that Parliament needs to be more involved in the crucial area of justice and internal affairs.
Finally, I should like to comment on the sensitive area of asylum law.
We hope we have been able to demonstrate this ambition in part, particularly in meeting committees in Stockholm.
Today, organised crime largely transcends national borders, not least because of the development of new technology.
In the Treaty of Amsterdam and the conclusions from the Tampere Summit the EU has put forward a very ambitious plan for how we are to succeed in achieving an area of freedom, security and justice.
As you also know, the Treaty on European Union lays down that each year the European Parliament is to hold a debate on the progress which has been made in the areas covered by Title VI of the Treaty on European Union.
Action plans have been adopted for almost all areas of activity on justice and home affairs.
We took the first step in the process towards setting up Eurojust, which we consider an incredibly important aspect in the fight against organised crime.
Furthermore, we succeeded in developing the principle of mutual recognition by adopting a programme of measures regarding mutual recognition of judgments in criminal cases.
Several decisions were also passed to improve cooperation in the field of civil law, for example, on the service of documents, insolvency and on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters.
Mr President, part of the question asked concerns the dialogue between the institutions and the measures which have been planned to make this dialogue more efficient and more clearly define the relationship between the institutions, the Member States and, for example, Europol and Eurojust.
The Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere Conclusions have meant major changes in the field of justice and home affairs.
The Treaty provides a clear framework for formal relations between the Council and the European Parliament when legal instruments and other instruments are being drawn up in the field of justice and home affairs.
The Council is fully aware that the ambitious work in this area also means a considerable workload for you in Parliament.
The Swedish Presidency has begun discussions on the way the Council works.
When it comes to Eurojust, the Council has not yet begun to discuss how Parliament and Commission are to be involved in the work and given the opportunity to monitor operations.
Mr Posselt also mentions the principle of mutual recognition and the measures which are planned to improve the mutual recognition of judgments in the field of criminal law.
The mutual recognition of judgments in criminal cases and traditional judicial cooperation have the same purpose: for cooperation between Member States to improve such that we can achieve an area of freedom, security and justice.
In December last year, in the light of the conclusions from Tampere, the Council adopted a programme of measures to implement the principle of mutual recognition.
In light of this, Sweden, together with Belgium and France, has taken the initiative for an instrument on decisions before judgments.
To conclude I would like to answer Mr Posselt' s questions on the implementation of legislation in our field and the issue of what we just mentioned, an annual report on implementation.
In the work in creating an area of freedom, security and justice, we are largely dependent on legal instruments which must be implemented in the national law of Member States.
After the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, several community legal instruments, such as regulations, have been adopted in the field of justice and home affairs.
One concrete example is what is known as the Brussels II Regulation on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters.
I do not rule out further measures being needed if Member States are better to live up to what they have undertaken in the Council.
It will contribute to creating an area of freedom, security and justice in the EU.
Furthermore, asylum seekers and others wishing to live in our countries will know that they will receive an equal reception and an equal assessment of their reasons whatever Member State they apply to.
This would also enable us to distribute responsibility more evenly between Member States.
The goals and action plans have been laid down in Amsterdam, Vienna and Tampere, as has the Commission' s scoreboard.
During the year the Council has passed decisions on a number of issues concerning asylum and immigration.
The Member States have applied for funding from this fund for 2000 and 2001 for various projects focusing on reception, integration and repatriation.
The Council has also passed two decisions linked to the Dublin Convention.
On 11 December 2000 the Eurodac Regulation was adopted.
We hope this will contribute to a more efficient application of the Dublin Convention.
Under the regulation Bulgaria, Hong Kong and Macao and at a later stage also Romania will be transferred to the list of countries which do not require a visa.
We must be able to give everyone resident in our countries the chance to live with their immediate family.
On the question of minimum conditions for reception of asylum seekers, the Council held theoretical discussions on a number of important issues, including access to the labour market, the right to free movement in the territory and area of application.
The Council has also addressed two proposals, one directive and the framework decision on common rules for combating trafficking in human beings and assisting people to reside illegally in our countries.
At the Council meeting of 30 November - 1 December 2000 a French initiative was discussed to harmonise economic sanctions as part of the carrier' s liability.
Questions concerning asylum and immigration are close to our citizens and often arouse strong feelings.
During the past year, on several occasions, we have seen pictures of tragedies in conjunction with people attempting to enter our countries.
We must take responsibility for refugees and others who need protection in our countries.
It is important that we have a modern immigration policy where we work to eradicate the fundamental causes of involuntary migration, prevent illegal immigration, guarantee protection to those who require it and are able to provide fair treatment of those immigrants who have permanent residence in our countries.
However, this will take place within the framework of the visions and the strategy adopted in the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere Conclusions.
The conditions for immigration to our countries change over time.
I therefore look forward to the upcoming Belgian Presidency' s focus on the question of the immigration of labour to the Union.
Regarding the written questions I have to answer, I will begin with that concerning the results which can be reported up to today' s date from the membership negotiations with candidate countries in terms of the area of freedom, security and justice and the forms in which the Council wishes to continue the negotiations, particularly on Chapter 24.
During February and March the Commission carried out technical consultations with all candidate countries affected, with the aim of examining the regulations and ironing out any question marks.
For the Helsinki countries the first draft will be complete during May.
We Member States have a responsibility to assist the candidate countries in this respect.
The Swedish Presidency considers it important to involve the candidate countries in EU cooperation at an early stage.
What is known as the pre-accession pact against organised crime and the horizontal Phare programmes on asylum, immigration, visas and border controls are good examples of candidate countries and Member States already working together at this stage.
Most recently the Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs of the Member States and candidate countries met at an informal meeting on 16 March.
The EU' s immigration policy partly covers immigration based on human needs for protection and partly covers immigration which takes place, for example, to reunite divided families or because people wish to obtain better economic conditions or a good education.
The presidency plans to achieve political agreement on this proposal in the next six months.
Furthermore, during March 2001 the Commission has adopted a proposal for a directive on the status of third country nationals who have been resident in a Member State for a long period.
An important aspect of this proposal is the right to settle and work in another Member State.
Preliminary discussion of the proposal will begin during the Swedish Presidency.
A directive on conditions for entry and residence for the purpose of paid employment and self employed economic activity will be presented in the first six months of 2001.
This is a directive which will be particularly interesting in the light of the debate begun in the Union in view of Member States' increased need for labour.
Furthermore, during spring 2001, the Commission will submit a proposal on conditions for entry and residence for the purpose of study or vocational training and a proposal concerning unpaid work.
The on-going work clearly shows that we within the EU are operating an active immigration policy.
The basic principle of this policy must be that the people who are granted the right of entry and residence and who have resided legally in a Member State should largely have the same rights and obligations as EU citizens.
These also state that an important part of the Union' s policy in this field is effective handling of immigration in all its aspects and cooperation with countries of origin is to constitute an important part of this work.
The final question concerns whether the Council considers it likely that number-based cost allocation between Member States for the reception of asylum seekers will be introduced within the framework of a common asylum policy.
The Treaty of Amsterdam lays down the basis for creating a common asylum system and the question of allocation of responsibility between EU Member States is set out in Article 63.2 (b).
Let me also state that on 28 September last year the Council adopted the European Refugee Fund whose aim is to promote the allocation of responsibility within the EU, both structurally and in emergency situations.
I believe that such a common system will lead in a natural way to a more balanced allocation of responsibility between EU Member States.
Finally, at your request, I will take a current example of needless human trafficking, which once again shows that we have to act quickly.
Parliament has submitted a wish that the Council issue a statement on this event.
At the same time it is important that we within the Union demonstrate unanimity in our efforts to combat this type of organised crime.
In this context, I also wish to state that the Council has already developed an early warning system which makes it possible for Member States to inform each other of potential flows of refugees.
The Council is also investigating the opportunity of establishing a network of liaison officers.
In my opinion, the most effective way of preventing illegal immigration is to work together with the countries which currently act as transit countries.
We feel that we have made a proposal for a scoreboard with whose structure and content you are all familiar and I shall therefore not go into this in detail.
Consolidating an area of freedom, security and justice can only be achieved through close cooperation between all the Union' s institutions and also - and perhaps most importantly - between the Member States.
I am therefore greatly encouraged by the discussion held at the initiative of the Swedish Presidency, which I welcomed, at the informal Stockholm Council on the need to speed up the pace of decision making and the need to improve the Commission' s working methods.
The Commission is willing to play its part, under the leadership of the Swedish Presidency, in this task of discussing and streamlining the Council' s methods for taking action.
In the field of transposing the Community acquis into national law, it must be said that, where the conventions of the third pillar are concerned, only one has been signed and ratified by all Member States and that is the Europol Convention.
By July of this year, the Commission intends to put forward a proposal to make the method for open coordination in the field of immigration policy operational, with a view to this being up and running in 2002, in parallel with the Swedish Presidency' s initiative to improve our statistical mechanisms in the field of immigration.
In the field of immigration, I do not think that we should ignore the prospect of a proactive policy of integrating immigrant communities into the reception societies.
We must therefore explore all the options contained in the anti-discrimination package that the Commission presented last year and, at the same time, build on the immigration component in the Lisbon strategy, confirmed in Stockholm, of combating social exclusion.
I shall conclude this point by emphasising my hope that following the Conference being organised by the Belgian Presidency, we may see political agreement on the overall concept of European immigration policy at the Laeken Council, so that, from then on, no more excuses are given for the lack of a joint vision preventing us from adopting practical legislative measures.
The best solution to the problem of sharing responsibility is likely to be a common European asylum system based on the ideas outlined in the Commission' s communication of last November.
In civil matters, by the end of the year, we will be supplementing the 'Brussels­I' initiative with a proposal for a European enforcement order in civil matters, and with additional initiatives from 'Brussels-II' on the mutual recognition of judgments in the field of family law, in domestic issues and matters concerning parental power and the issuing of proposals on the recognition of low-value claims and undisputed claims.
With regard to the interinstitutional dialogue, Mr President, the Commission wishes to confirm here that the dialogue between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament is essential to a successful outcome.
In this field, the Commission and Parliament must be given a greater role to play in the democratic control of Europol.
If there have been delays, they are certainly not due to a lack of proposals or opinions issued by Parliament.
Secondly, I should like to reiterate the Commission' s desire to deepen political dialogue with the European Parliament so that together we can find the best solutions, which will, in this House, enjoy the broad political support of the various European political families.
I respect the diversity of Parliament' s political and ideological opinions, but we do have a common objective, which is to convey to the people of Europe a clear political message that meets their expectations.
This is a simple message: the European institutions make a decisive contribution to confirming freedom, security and justice as inseparable values, true cornerstones laid out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and which express what we have in common and what we can be proud of.
We spend a great deal of time on parallel initiatives which very often have no legal basis and which we often suspect are nationally motivated rather than concerned with finding European solutions.
The second point is that there has been a dramatic increase in both drug abuse in the European Union and in drug production, especially the production of synthetic drugs, in the European Union.
The European Union has become the biggest producer and exporter of synthetic drugs in the world.
We have hopes for the future of Eurojust and this Parliament welcomes the decisions taken by the Council and the Member States' initiatives which, in the field of judicial cooperation, have added to the Commission proposals, thus creating a circle that should be maintained in future.
My Group also values the highly significant Commission communication on the mutual recognition of sentences in criminal matters.
Ministers, we are well aware of what the European Commission has presented this last year in connection with the Tampere Agenda: it is on the scoreboard.
But the citizens do not know.
Just as those of my country do not know that we have set up an action plan for Morocco, and while they keep finding the bodies of our young neighbours on their beaches they wonder what the European Union is doing.
In fact, the impression given by the press is that not even our government knows.
Laeken is going to be a new opportunity for the common immigration and asylum policy.
Parliament - and I am sure in this respect the citizens too - will follow.
Mr President, our efforts to create an area of freedom, security and justice are dispersed and rather incoherent.
Our procedures are also inadequate; add to that the way in which Member States have showered upon us a host of uncoordinated initiatives, and it is not surprising that two years after the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force, we have a lot of frenetic activity but not enough real progress.
We have big issues to deal with, from a policy on immigration, to combating racism and xenophobia, to ending the huge injustice of 20 million European residents having no right of movement, because they are third-country nationals.
Mr President, during the night of 31 March, another ship carrying illegal immigrants ran aground to the north-east of Athens, just like the Kurdish refugees on 18 February off the coast of Var, in France.
Regularly, in Gibraltar, at Calais and elsewhere, refugees are coming ashore at European ports.
Yet the right of asylum is a fundamental and inalienable right.
At the present time, two mechanisms are being studied... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, we all know that words are no longer enough to condemn these situations in which whole families are thrown out of their country, like the 908 people crammed into the holds of the "East Sea" , seeking a better life, or fleeing war, violence or poverty, sometimes both.
On the contrary, a common policy on immigration requires ambitious initiatives based on improving and strengthening the right of asylum, guaranteeing both that right and the right to freedom of movement, and facilities for receiving migrants with dignity and with respect for human rights.
It is impossible to avoid answering these questions if we want to move towards a policy that is more just, more humane and more effective.
The impression might be created that freedom, security and justice did not exist in the Member States, as if our countries were a legal vacuum.
The fight against organised crime, terrorism, drugs or the trafficking of human beings requires new police methods, a readjustment of legislation, and the immediate adaptation of police and judicial cooperation to the new European area.
No terrorist, drug trafficker or trafficker in human beings must find shelter in a Member State.
In Spain a recent survey has shown that terrorism and immigration have become two of the main concerns of Spanish citizens.
We are going to have two great debates in the coming months: a report on terrorism and another on immigration and asylum.
I hope that we Members of Parliament, the Commission and the Council will rise to the occasion and succeed in offering European citizens and those who legally wish to live in our territory precisely what we set forth in the recent Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Mr President, the fact of the matter is that a very ambitious and serious attempt is under way to resolve the everyday problems of European citizens, the success of which will help strengthen the political dimension of European unification, because European unification and a single European area obviously imply more than just a single market and a common currency.
Which is why we need to strengthen our citizens' sense of security, fight organised crime, strengthen police and judicial cooperation, mutually recognise court judgments, develop an integrated, viable immigration policy based on our common European values and fight racism and xenophobia in the European Union.
And as we know, this sort of situation causes serious problems, both to the working of the Commission, which does not have the human resources needed to respond to all these initiatives, and to the working and the agenda of the European Parliament.
And, of course, the list of achievements in 2000 also includes the adoption of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in Nice, although not, of course, in the manner which Parliament had hoped for.
I should also like to congratulate the Swedish Presidency on working to strengthen the political dimension of the venture to create a common area of freedom, security and justice in the Union, especially in its endeavour to get a framework Council decision adopted during the six-month Swedish Presidency on a Commission proposal to fight the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
As far as immigration policy is concerned and the huge gap in this area, some Member States, including Greece, have decided to plug this gap with national legislation under the Tampere agenda.
Last week, the Greek government passed an immigration bill legalising and regulating the status of thousands of immigrants who entered Greece over the last ten years, thereby finding a positive solution to serious issues which the Council has stubbornly kept on the back burner. (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, as the Member who has the honour of chairing the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, I would like to thank Commissioner Vitorino and Ministers Bodström and Klingvall for the spirit of loyal cooperation in which they have approached the construction of the area of freedom, security and justice.
But to say this throws some light on the difficulties we have encountered in the 18 months since the Tampere Summit: difficulties such as the need for separate legal arrangements in the first pillar and the third pillar; the need to cater for Member States which are members of Schengen and those which are not; the depressing predisposition of some Member States to pile headlong into individual initiatives before institutions have fully debated an overall approach.
Parliament has called for an annual report on the implementation of the area of freedom, security and justice.
Arguably that may be true for 24 hours; thereafter it is a matter for all of us.
Member States must understand that this is an area in which citizens want more Europe.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights is arguably the most important development that we have seen.
This results in more justice and greater fairness because it is the global economic conditions which the industrialised countries have forced on the world which turn many people into refugees in the first place.
The Schengen area is a fortress which forces the victims of hunger or of political dictatorships to take illegal action.
I myself think that it is fairly clear after the debate today that responsibility for overall policy in this field should rest with the Commission.
Member States are estimated to lose 10 percent and candidate countries 20 percent.
The policy we have to develop must be based on international conventions, needs for protection and family reunification.
They tend to be found among the 14 million unemployed.
Before we talk about the immigration of labour - it is possible that there may be a question of this - I would primarily like to see us emphasising integration policy and a common asylum and immigration policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, almost every day we read articles in the papers about refugees stranded on the coasts of Europe.
Just last Sunday, 447 Kurdish refugees landed in Greece.
The refugees sell all their worldly possessions in order to buy a passage to Europe.
Mr President, the European Union's behaviour is inconsistent: we recognise that it is necessary to bring the citizens closer to Europe and that, in order to do this, the Union must show that it is able to guarantee rights, freedom and security, but when it comes to implementing these proposals, the Member States' governments become highly overcautious and indecisive, concerned more for their own powers than for the rights of all.
First of all, I want to draw the Council' s attention to the slowness and lack of coordination of some of its decisions regarding what was approved in Tampere, and I want to stress that this situation may lead to the failure of the agenda that you yourselves decided.
What is needed is a new boost and greater political will to be able to fulfil the agenda and the objectives that are set out for us.
Secondly I also urge you to work at developing the Tampere proposals and not Member State initiatives; although such initiatives are legitimate, this Parliament considers them lacking in coherence, partial in their presentation and content, guided by each country' s own situation, and not contributing at all to the overall view needed in this matter.
Everyone knew that there were several million illegal immigrants in Western Europe, everyone knew that they were coming in every day, trickling through our sieve-like borders, coming from all over the world, everyone knows the routes that they take and the main countries of entry, but at least, until now, all this has been going on quietly and discreetly, so as not to disturb good bourgeois consciences and the sleep of the self-righteous.
They have disappeared, melted into the background, over 600 of these illegal immigrants have miraculously vanished, they have done a disappearing act.
For example, when the camp was closed by the prefect of Var, on 1 March, 449 people were supposed to have been taken into custody.
It contains information on persons who are wanted, whether they are armed, their descriptions and other things such as information on stolen vehicles.
The same applies to the cooperation between the Member States, the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for the commitment they have shown to pursuing the very challenging and demanding agenda of Tampere, and also to testify to and praise the efforts of the Swedish Presidency to achieve concrete results during the first half of this year.
The sooner we get a more detailed assessment of the concrete results of such an action plan, the better.
So we should engage Turkey more seriously in the debate on the Kurdish situation and on the effect of illegal immigration in the area.
There has been a very important Swedish initiative on synthetic drugs.
We had an open debate in the Council on drugs and the Commission intends to present two main instruments: one, the framework decision for harmonisation of criminal law in fighting drug trafficking, will be presented next month.
The second one is to put before the Council and Parliament what we call a follow-up table for the action plan on drugs.
My final wish and hope is that maybe next year we will have a more cheerful debate on the state of play in the area of freedom, security and justice.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 16 May.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Lamy, on the eve of the Third United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries, which will be taking place in the European Parliament in Brussels in the middle of May, I think it is crucial that we debate and confirm the strategy the European Union should adopt on this matter and on that occasion.
It is crucial that practical measures are adopted in the context of an overall strategy, which sets a new international economic order, strategies that are designed to comply with and strengthen the 1986 United Nations declaration, which recognises the right to sustainable development as an undeniable human right.
It is also crucial that the European Union and each of the Member States adopt a position clearly endorsing this right by fighting to ensure that the current trend to reduce financial aid by the industrialised countries is reversed and that a timetable is set to increase aid by 0.7% of GDP, by acting in such a way that the 1992 Rio de Janeiro commitments are reiterated, by contributing to the definitive writing-off of the debt that is clearly smothering these countries, by making themselves available and taking action on conflict prevention, and by paying particular attention to arms trafficking and combating this trade.
Furthermore, as I stated in my proposal for a resolution, we must also bear in mind that access to the markets is not, in itself, a sufficient condition for guaranteeing economic growth and that economic growth, in itself, does not automatically lead to an equitable form of development either.
As I stated in my proposal for a resolution, the industrialised countries must make a decisive contribution to the development of programmes in these fields.
Firstly, active and responsible participation by national authorities, civil society, the private sector and local players in the least developed countries.
Within the framework of the Union' s development assistance policy a very great part of the assistance is devoted to precisely these least developed countries, particularly through the ACP/EU conventions.
The Union feels that the elimination of poverty in these countries should be the central aim of the conference.
The Union cannot accept the commitments and/or obligations in respect of debt write-offs that go beyond the terms that apply under the HIPC initiative.
This means that any claims for a moratorium on debt payments before the debtor countries reach the so-called end point, and/or 100 percent debt is written off at this point, cannot be accepted.
On 28 February 2001 the Council approved a Regulation extending exemption from duty with no restriction on quantity to include all products originating from the 49 least developed countries in the world with the exception of arms and ammunition - what is known is the 'Everything but arms' initiative.
The Regulation became applicable on 5 March this year.
The decision shows our partners in the WTO negotiations - both developing countries and industrial countries - that the Union is serious in its commitment to incorporate development issues into these negotiations.
It shows that we will enter into the negotiations with the firm intention not just of serving our own interests, but also the interests of the most needy members of the global society, particularly the least developed countries.
The aim of this conference will be first of all to assess the results of the action programme which was launched in 1990, to take stock of what has been done in the meantime in the way of development aid, debt reduction, investment and trade.
Another aim will be to draw up a new action programme for the next ten years, and we have agreed, in a joint agreement with the United Nations, that this conference should also give its attention to a certain number of measures having immediate effect, so that it will not yield to the temptation of taking refuge in too many generalities.
We shall try to ensure that a programme of sound action emerges from this conference so as to give a framework of encouragement to the development efforts of these 49 or 50 countries, once again trying to make it all as specific as possible.
It is with this in mind that we have ensured - and we at the Commission would like to thank the Swedish Presidency for this - that the decisions taken on the basis of this initiative, 'Everything but arms' , are taken in good time so that this initiative can constitute an achievement of the May conference.
It is clear that, without an appropriate environment and other aid efforts, the vast majority of the LDCs are incapable, on their own, of taking advantage of commercial openings.
We must therefore supplement this strong signal, this effort to which we have committed ourselves, by other measures aimed at effectively increasing the export capacity of the countries in question, and helping them to become integrated into the multilateral worldwide trading system.
We therefore intend to supplement this initiative by other measures, a certain number of which are connected with trade, by technical assistance as regards the administrative capacity of these countries, and by increasing what we do in the context of the integrated fund which links us with the IMF, the World Bank and the WTO, in a technical assistance project which deals with commercial issues in Geneva.
I am thinking, in particular, of all the rules on health and plant health, or of various obstacles to trade, where we should not reduce the standards that we have set, because our own public want to keep them, but where we could ensure that our efforts to provide technical assistance are effectively targeted so that they enable those countries to comply with them.
We believe that these conditions for access to the market will help to improve the volume of foreign investment in those countries, provided that they are accompanied by an effective increase in their export capacity, and we should like to take the opportunity of this conference to go further in improving the promotion of investment in those countries, in particular by better use of the existing multilateral mechanisms, perhaps by using more actively what is already available in the way of guarantees for investment in least developed countries.
It is up to these countries themselves to create an environment that is more investment-friendly, by means of internal policies which we can support, and advise on, but which are, after all, the result of internal policy decisions which are sometimes difficult to take, and we are not responsible for this difficulty in taking decisions.
We must remember that these measures that I have just spoken about, which come into effect immediately, are only part of the result.
I believe that it is very important to have an itinerary in this area, and it must be one that we can control together.
It must be pointed out that the poorest and the least developed countries must be given special attention and, in the process, elimination of extreme poverty should be the primary goal.
According to UNCTAD calculations, while the gross domestic product of 49 LDCs rose by no more than 0.9% per year in real terms between 1990 and 1998, worldwide GDP grew by more than 2.5% per year.
We in this Parliament should promote the rule of law as an essential criterion when we look at good governance criteria.
It is a matter of record also that the proportion of our aid budgets that goes to the LDCs has fallen while the proportion that goes to middle-ranking countries, such as Morocco and Algeria, has risen.
The aid budget must concentrate on the poorest.
That is what our citizens expect and require.
Using the aid budget as some sort of underhand immigration policy is wrong.
I must also stress the need to guarantee funds to be set up or topped up in order to provide incentives for greater private investment and for the implementation of measures to encourage small loan arrangements, such as those introduced by the Gramien Bank in Bangladesh.
Mr President, as others have already suggested, the facts speak for themselves.
Most of the 640 million people who live in the Least Developed Countries, just over one-tenth of the world's entire population, are struggling to survive on less than two dollars a day.
LDCs have seen a severe drop in capital flows, down 45% since 1990; and official development assistance continues to go down, having fallen by 30% since 1990.
There will be, as Mr Lamy knows, a thematic session on trade, which I know he will expect to be used by the LDCs as a platform in preparation for the Qatar ministerial meeting.
Finally, this Conference is about analysing what we can do that is deliverable for the least developed countries when millions of people are unable to treat pneumonia, diarrhoea, TB or AIDS; when you have no medicines to give to your sick child or your dying wife; when your child is at school under a tree trying to learn to write its name with a twig.
It is entirely reasonable to prescribe conditions in our debt and aid policy with regard to the fight against poverty, sound administration and sound management of public finance.
If political and economic power are not distinctly separated, only corruption can reign supreme.
It is hopeless to fight poverty if countries remain trapped in violent conflict.
It has often been said, but it is necessary to repeat it, that the decrease in the flow of public development aid is unacceptable.
The mere mention of the fall in life expectancy to 51 years gives an indication of the size of the disaster.
The third UN conference must not be just another ritual gathering, and I believe that the European Union, which is to some extent hosting the summit, should help to make sure that it does not turn into one.
I believe that development cannot be summed up simply as the organisation of trading relations... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, the question which arises is: what is preventing the developed countries from helping the poor countries more effectively?
The percentage of the GDP dedicated by the wealthy States to the development of poor countries is increasingly small.
We know that, in many cases, these same wealthy countries flood the poor countries with toxic waste or allow shady businesses to operate in tourism as well.
Mr President, I really do hope that the Commission will help ensure that there is no hiding behind mere words with, as a result, resolutions being adopted that consist of non-binding statements in the form of recycled wordings to which the Member States have agreed at other international meetings.
If arrangements are to be of immediate effect, as the Commission wishes, the EU must appreciate that the HIPC agreement is quite inadequate.
There is a need for an international agreement aimed at genuinely releasing the developing countries from their debts by, for example, integrating the international objectives on poverty so that a sustainable debt is defined on the basis of the countries' need to combat poverty.
In short, the EU ought to promote coherence in development policy and supplement this with effective support for developing the infrastructure of the developing countries so that they can carve out a place for themselves on the world market.
What we now need is not more words, but action; and action which hopefully does not end up like the 'Everything but Arms' initiative in which the Commission produced a fine proposal which, unfortunately, was completely destroyed by the Council which postponed the agreement on rice, sugar and bananas until the year 2009.
Mr President, the fact that only one of the 50 poorest countries, namely Botswana, has managed to get out of the poverty trap over the last 25 years proves that the basic system is flawed.
It is obvious that this system has been implemented on purpose.
Mr President, the decision to grant the poorest countries access to the European market is a good start.
Healthcare in the poorest countries is seriously underfunded.
It appears that the least developed countries are spending as little as USD 8 per person on healthcare.
According to the WHO, this figure should be 8 or 9 times higher.
That is why the European Union should have the courage to take unilateral initiatives at the third UN Conference in May.
European aid in the field of healthcare should be discontinued, so that the poorest countries, such as India, can buy medicines against AIDS cheaply using our aid money.
This is an opportunity to show that the Union is honest in its efforts to genuinely assist the least developed countries.
The first has to do with the issue the President-in-Office of the Council has just addressed.
Like Mr Deva and the President-in-Office, I think that peace is probably the decisive ingredient ahead of such elements as the fight against corruption.
I think that the conference on the LDCs will enable us to exert a bit of pressure.
Nonetheless, as regards industrial rates, it has already taken measures which are in the right direction.
I would like to dispel any impression that we have in some way bought the agreement of least-developed countries so as to organise a round of commercial negotiations which is in our interest but not theirs.
My third and final comment has to do with access to medicines.
It is available for you to read.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow.
Question No 2 by (H-0259/01) Subject: Uncontrolled activity of extremist organisations in southern Serbia Terrorist activity by Albanian extremists in southern Serbia and FYROM, even within the KFOR-monitored zone, is out of control.
In its conclusions of 19 March the Council supported the initiative by the authorities in Belgrade to find a peaceful and permanent solution to the current situation in southern Serbia.
This support now amounts to nearly EUR 2 million.
The Council welcomed Javier Solana' s status report, submitted on 19 March, concerning further EU measures in respect of south-east Serbia and urged him to continue his work on an EU strategy for this region in cooperation with the presidency and the Commission in order to support the process in the region and contribute to international efforts in reaching a peaceful solution.
The Council reacted quickly and clearly to the serious incidents in FYROM that took place recently.
The EU position is clearly stated in the declaration by the European Council issued in Stockholm on 23 March.
One of the reasons why we have had a continual presence of Union representatives in the region in recent weeks is precisely in order to be able to promote this interethnic dialogue within the framework of the respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty.
If it was a hymn, it was to something that I would regard as a very active policy by the Union to attempt to help solve one of the most serious conflicts on our continent.
And then, Mr President, I was struck by the presidency' s statement that Presevo... (The President cut the speaker off) I realise that Mr Korakas is not satisfied with my answer.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am worried about events spiralling out of control in the Balkans.
What I am wondering is, does ÍÁÔÏ intend to use Bulgaria against FYROM in the same way as it used FYROM against Yugoslavia?
As they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: Question No 4 by (H-0290/01): Subject: International Criminal Court Will the Council indicate its position on the slow ratification process of the proposed International Criminal Court, bearing in mind that it cannot be formally established until 60 countries have ratified the Rome Statute of the ICC and that, in February 2001, Dominica became the 29th State to ratify the Statute?
However, the first three months of 2001 have now elapsed, but only four more Member States have ratified the Statute.
The Union therefore considers it necessary for the International Criminal Court to be set up within the near future in order to increase respect for international humanitarian rights and human rights.
The Union strongly recommends that the International Criminal Court be set up in the near future.
With this aim in mind the Union started international efforts to encourage as many states as possible to sign up to the Rome Statute before the deadline expired on 31 December 2000.
The Union has also undertaken to encourage the countries with associate membership of the Union to sign or ratify the Statute and the Union is offering its expertise in this area to all interested countries.
The Irish government has stated its intention to hold a referendum on 31 May 2001 to ratify the International Criminal Court and to alter our constitution for that.
I should like to know what positive or proactive action is being taken by the presidency to ensure that not only the existing Member States within the EU, but also those countries with associate membership numbering 27 in total, which could help bring us up above the 60 countries required for formal ratification and the enforcement of this International Criminal Court, actually ratify.
As I said in my introduction, it is a fairly extensive process in many countries - including my own.
Question No 6 by (H-0251/01): Subject: Charter of Fundamental Rights The Swedish Minister of State told the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 13 February 2001 that the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, although 'solemnly proclaimed' was not regarded by the Council as being binding in all respects.
At this stage the three institutions have recognised the political value of the document within the Union' s framework of action.
If the objective is to make existing rights more visible, however, certain of the rights that are proclaimed in the Charter are already found in international conventions or in national constitutional traditions.
The fact that these rights are set out in the Charter does not change the legal value they have irrespective of the existence of the Charter, since the basis of their observance in Union law rests on Article 6(2) of the Treaty on European Union.
The fact that the rights have been formulated in the Charter thus does not affect their value.
The Minister will be aware that the Court of Justice is already deploying the Charter quite broadly in its jurisprudence.
The Charter also contains a number of articles that are rather an expression of general political aims, for example Articles 37 and 38 concerning environmental and consumer protection.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have listened to you very carefully, but I believe many MEPs and many European citizens have been left with a bad taste in our mouths in view of the results of the last summit, held in Nice, where the Charter of Human Rights was not approved, and I do not know why the representatives of the Member States' governments did not want to approve it.
But the fact is that I asked a question on a concrete case of human rights, relating to the use of Euskera [Basque] - the so-called lingua navarrorum - in the Autonomous Community of Navarre, and the Commission replied that as language rights are a subject not in force in the Charter of Human Rights at a European level, complaints can only be made at the level of national institutions and courts.
Mr President, could I ask the President-in-Office once again to restate so everybody can hear that the Charter of Fundamental Rights is a non-binding political declaration as approved by the Heads of State and Heads of Government in Nice.
If the Court of Justice or any other court in the European Union is using it to bind Member States, individuals or associations to an interpretation of that charter, then they are incorrect in law, in justice and in legal interpretation.
I don' t like repeating myself, but I am at Parliament' s service.
Allow me to explain as follows: from our viewpoint the Charter is a political declaration and is only politically binding.
The Council has no role to play in the cooperation that has been established between the six states and is therefore not in a position to be able to provide direct information concerning the situation and what has been achieved in this area.
Mr President, I often receive queries from citizens wishing to carry weapons in Europe.
The Spanish government' s decision is in clear breach of existing agreements to develop the European defence industry, which are the subject of this question.
Question No 8 by (H-0253/01): Subject: Distortion of competition resulting from national compensation schemes for military purchasing On 15 December the Belgian Federation decided to discontinue the practice of linking its military purchases to economic compensation schemes for firms in Flanders and Wallonia.
Indeed, Article 296 of the Treaty on European Union imposes a few restrictions on yourselves in this respect.
However, you could also start applying Article 296(2), and you could at least ask the Commission to ensure that you have authority to act in this field.
As regards financial repercussions of the BSE crisis, the Council would remind you that, in accordance with the conclusions of the European Council summit in Nice, both the budget plan and the Council Regulation on budgetary discipline must be observed even if new measures or supplementary measures are required.
This framework has not prevented the Council from agreeing on important measures in respect of public health in order to restore consumer confidence.
In the financing summary accompanying the proposal the Commission shows how the financial consequences of such measures can be met within the budget plan.
At the meeting of the Ecofin Council on 12 February in conjunction with the Council' s adoption of the proposal for supplementary and amending budget 1/2001 in respect of BSE-related measures, Commissioner Schreyer said that depending on developments in the market, the Commission would consider legislative initiatives to cover the risk of further costs in the budget with a view to observing the financial frameworks of Agenda 2000.
Question No 10 by (H-0264/01): Subject: Tax on financial transactions versus Article 56 Article 56 of the EC Treaty reads: '1.
Within the framework of the provisions set out in this Chapter, all restrictions on the movement of capital between Member States and between Member States and third countries shall be prohibited. 2.
The Commission has not yet put forward any proposal or other initiative in the matter for discussion by the Council.
I have two supplementary questions for the Council of Ministers.
The Danish government has, for example, indicated its willingness to be associated with the EURODAC regulation, the bankruptcy regulation, the Brussels I and II Regulations and the Regulation on the notification of documentation in civil and commercial cases.
However, Articles 4 and 5 state exemptions from these general rules on terms laid down there.
I have an excellent knowledge of this protocol and do not need this summing up.
The question revolves around a very central issue.
Question No 12 by (H-0271/01): Subject: Payment of Austrian investigators When the Members of the Council were preparing to end the 'sanctions' against Austria, a special working party of three wise men was set up for this purpose.
But, as I say, the Council has no role to play in this matter, and this is a Question Time with questions to the Council.
The EU will continue to emphasise to GCC members the necessity of improving the human rights situation in their countries and will continue to cooperate with the UN and international human rights organisations.
In accordance with the European Union' s policy of incorporating the issue of human rights into agreements with third countries, respect for human rights will constitute an essential component of such an agreement.
Mr President, I should to express my thanks to the President of the Council for the precision with which he answered my question.
Allow me to quote from the speech made by the presidency on 29 March at the UN Commission for Human Rights.
In this way, the European Union made its views on the situation in Saudi Arabia in this area crystal clear.
Such organisations mainly exist within the framework of the United Nations.
Paragraph 5, in particular, of this Article states that, 'Community action in the field of public health shall fully respect the responsibilities of the Member States for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care.' The Council therefore lacks competence when it comes to what is known as medically-assisted suicides.
I would nonetheless remind you that the new draft law in the Netherlands concerning medically assisted suicides is a source of serious concern in many countries.
The Council assumes that the honourable Member is referring to the Total Allowable Catch and quotas adopted by the Council in December 2000.
On the basis of Article 15 of the Council' s Regulation No 3760/92, the Commission is, at present, considering a series of measures to promote the recovery of the stock.
According to this principle, only Denmark and Sweden may fish in the area comprising the Skagerrak and the Kattegat, and only Belgium, Denmark, Germany, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom in those areas comprising the North Sea.
Article 161 of the 1985 accession document establishes Spain' s share of hake from the northern stock in Divisions Vb, VI, VII and VIIIab, that is to say the western waters including the Bay of Biscay, at 30 per cent.
Article 349 of the accession document restricts Portugal' s access to the Southern stock of hake.
As you have said, however, the total allowable catches and quotas for 2001, which were set by the Council of Fisheries Ministers in December last year, have introduced something new: there has been a greater percentage reduction in allowable catches in the Bay of Biscay than in all the other northern hake fishing areas.
In Article 2 thereof, the Council and Parliament agreed on the definition of direct and indirect discrimination, but those definitions seem to have been forgotten when Open Competition COM/A/12/98, the results of which are covered by the new Directive, was held.
Out of the 645 candidates entered on the reserve lists, not a single one is disabled.
The presidency also had the privilege of appearing before Parliament' s Committee on Fisheries on 6 February 2001, when we gave an exhaustive presentation of our priorities within the fisheries sector.
A programme of measures to promote biological diversity in the fishing industry was expected to be available from 28 March, that is to say last week.
At its meeting in December 2000, the Council also began its debate on the Commission' s communication concerning the application of the precautionary principle and multiannual agreements for establishing annual allowable catches.
It is the presidency' s intention to progress as far as possible with this work at the Council' s meetings on 25 April and 18 June 2001.
We also hope that we shall be able to present parts of an integration strategy in anticipation of the European Council in Gothenburg in June.
Following the Council meeting in December 2000, work has progressed on establishing recovery plans for cod and hake in Community waters.
Mr President, due to the time constraints imposed by you, which give my colleagues a chance of having their questions answered, can I very quickly thank the President-in-Office for his response.
I hope, over the next few months, that we will have an opportunity to impress upon our colleagues in Parliament and ministers in the various Member States the importance to us.
The European Union' s positions on this issue are well documented, especially through media monitoring of the climate change issue, and the Council scarcely needs to remind you that the European Community and its Member States have played, and continue to play, a very active role in the international negotiations on climate change.
Our most important and repeatedly expressed aims in the on-going negotiations include preparing the way for a rapid ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, so that it can come into effect by 2002 at the latest, and bringing about genuine reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
Of special importance in this connection is the work being done within the Commission on, for example, the European Climate Change Programme and the work based on the green paper on greenhouse gas emissions trading within the European Union.
I have not therefore had the opportunity of receiving an assessment of the results of the visit directly from the minister, but I can assure you that the Council will do everything to ensure that the Kyoto Protocol, which is, of course, one of the most important tools of all in our work for sustainable development in Europe, does in fact become a reality and is ratified.
This regulation was used to step up the pressure on the international community to sign the Montreal Convention in 1999, as a result of which the new all-encompassing worldwide system for liability became an established fact.
Thirdly, there was some concern as to the implications of the case which IATA brought to the Supreme Court in the United Kingdom against the British government regarding the way in which it implemented Regulation No 2027/97.
The court concluded that the regulation remained valid, but that it contained a number of elements which were incompatible with the obligations which Member States had entered into on account of previous pledges, in accordance with international conventions.
In my opinion, this objection is no longer well-founded since the regulation has been amended and brought completely into line with the new international system of liability.
Fourthly, upon drafting this report and the eighteen amendments which I recommended to the committee, I sought legal advice from various lawyers and legal experts in order to preclude any doubt which may arise in future in the legal sphere.
These amendments can roughly be divided into three categories.
In that way, airline companies will be able to offer this information in a uniform manner.
Once this regulation enters into force - which I hope will be the case by the end of next year - coinciding with the expected entry into effect of the Montreal Convention - all airline companies in the European Union will then be required to make this information available to their passengers.
Airline companies from non-EU countries will nonetheless be required to produce something similar covering the liability system which they operate.
Considering the matter once more, I believe that the Union has the right to ask all carriers which sell tickets in the EU to provide their passengers with information on their rights to damages, not only with a view to acquainting the passengers with their rights, but also to allowing passengers to take out additional insurance, should this appear necessary.
Furthermore, by ratifying the Montreal Convention, the Commission recognises the Union' s authority in this matter.
Finally, I would like to recommend all eighteen amendments.
I cannot recommend Amendments Nos 19 and 20, because they imply that third countries need not meet the obligation to inform passengers, even if they buy tickets in the European Union.
In my remarks I would like to commend the report to the House.
However, speaking from a personal point of view, there are one or two issues which remain unresolved to my own satisfaction.
The first is the fact that the Montreal Convention, which governs matters globally, has not yet been ratified by sufficient countries to give it binding effect.
Whilst, to a certain extent, a number of the amendments which have been proposed to the report improve the situation, there are still one or two issues which need to be addressed, in my opinion.
Unfortunately some clauses still contained in the regulation would result in just such a scenario.
I commend the report to the House in its entirety.
Judge Jowitt ruled that conflict did indeed exist between the Regulation and the Warsaw Convention.
But I would point out to my British colleague that he agreed with the UK government that Article 234 of the Treaty did in fact render this conflict invalid.
IATA lost their challenge and no other referral has been made to the European Court of Justice on this matter.
The Warsaw Convention is 70 years of age.
Mr President, allow me first of all to thank the rapporteur for an excellent piece of work.
I therefore think that the final outcome of the report is entirely positive.
The aim of the present proposal is to adapt the EU rules to the new Montreal Convention which will hopefully come into force at the end of 2002.
It is therefore of the greatest importance for our Member States to ratify the Montreal Convention as soon as is reasonably possible.
Parliament has pressed on without delays, and we are attempting to give shape to our part in the Montreal Convention, which generates a number of positive features for passengers and therefore deserves the support of the European Union.
We must highlight the greater number of participating countries and the new possibilities on offer, the increase in the compensation payable in the various situations considered in the Convention, the significant introduction of matters relating to baggage and delays and the provision of information for passengers.
We therefore consider that this work is a parliamentary job well done which will result in benefits for the citizens.
As I see it, this evening, we are discussing the rights of the passenger against the backdrop of a number of problems which are, in fact, related to the quality of services offered by airline companies.
We are debating the liability in this respect and the provision of information to the consumer.
The question is also that of whether the information service has a preventive effect, especially in the case of delays and such like.
Mr President, Commissioner, various modes of transport cross many national borders.
Her commitment to directly link EU legislation to the Montreal Convention appears to be the best solution by far.
The regulation lacks clarity inasmuch as the points in the Montreal Convention referred to in it are not, however, to be found in the regulation itself.
We in the Commission fully share the tenor of the report, since it supports our intention of providing air passengers with a high level of protection in the event of an accident, it aims to modernise the rules on liability for delays and damage to baggage, and especially it aims to provide users with better information about their rights, since the greatest problem is often that the users themselves do not know what their rights are.
I am delighted to tell you that at its meeting tomorrow the Transport Council should adopt a decision to ratify the Convention and for the Community to ratify the Convention at the same time as the Member States.
Furthermore, the Community must bring Community rules on airline liability into line with those of the Montreal Convention, which is the aim of this proposal.
With regard to the amendments that have been tabled, perhaps the most important are those concerned with the information to be given to passengers on the provisions about the airlines' liability.
In its proposal, the Commission requires the companies to provide passengers with detailed information.
The report intends to strengthen the wording of the rule to oblige Community carriers to make available an information leaflet, as given in the Annex that is proposed.
This would ensure that the airlines gave passengers the necessary information in a precise manner, something that experience shows does not always happen.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 13 and 18.
We also have a few doubts about Amendments Nos 9 and 10, since according to them the airlines' liabilities would be governed by the relevant provisions of the Montreal Convention without the corresponding articles being specified.
We cannot accept Amendment No 11 either, since the article cannot be deleted if the text still refers to specific articles of the Montreal Convention, in line, therefore, with the previous rejection.
The Commission can, however, accept all the other amendments, which strengthen or clarify the text.
Thank you, Commissioner De Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, it is well known that, despite successive reforms, Article 73 of the Treaties remains in force, which means that coordination between the various modes of transport is still a Community obligation.
I take this opportunity to draw the Commission' s attention to this fact when it accepts or rejects our amendments.
We would like there to be a reasonable degree of identification between Parliament and the Commission.
In our debates we bore in mind facts such as the following: a vital Kyoto commitment is to cut our polluting gas emissions by 8% by 2010, whereas, if there is no change in the relative shares of the various transport modes, it has been predicted that in the transport sector there will be a 40% increase in these emissions over this period.
In view of this intermodal conflict it must be recognised that the Commission has acted in a reasonably balanced manner in its proposal.
In view of this we believe that the Commission should tackle this problem now.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has assessed the Commission proposal in terms of competitive aspects and competitive neutrality.
The draftsman of the opinion would have liked to have seen more weight accorded to this in the draft report, because this draft report calls for active support which goes beyond compensation.
The European Council stated in Stockholm that we need to reduce the scope of state aid in the European Union and to make the aid system more transparent.
I think that, in replacing the old Regulation No 1107/70 with the new regulation, we have indeed made the system more transparent.
Basically, the rule of the internal market is that aid distorts competition and is therefore inadmissible.
The prime purpose of aid in this sector is to allow fair competition between road, rail and inland waterway transport.
In other words, both the infrastructure and the external costs must be included when calculating aid.
This is introduced in proposed Amendment No 48 and I call on the House to support it.
However, this model should only be allowed for a transitional period because, the best intentions notwithstanding, it contradicts the basic approach of the regulation in targeting equality of competition.
We therefore suggest exemptions for terminals which are provided for in a national or European development plan or which belong to the trans-European freight traffic network.
We are also in favour of a de minimis rule of EUR 100 000 over three years.
On balance, the regulation will help to bring about a clearer structure for the granting of aid for the coordination of inland transport and to dismantle distortions of competition - including between Member States.
We are forced to this point because the forecast contained in Article 4 of the regulation is dictated solely by the absence of a general Community legislation on the definition, assessment and charging of the costs of using the infrastructure, whether they are internal or external.
This is a subject upon which Parliament has already expressed its opinion in a report which I had the honour to present on its behalf.
Mr President, Commissioner, the regulation proposed by the Commission simplifies matters remarkably, compared with the previous rules.
An approach which only aims to prevent potential distortions of competition and fails to include environmental, social or regional aspects is unacceptable.
The rapporteur, who deserves our thanks for his excellent work, and the Committee have set more far-reaching, important premises, which my group supports, such as including aid for short sea shipping, including combined transport operations at sea ports, granting aid irrespective of whether the company is a public or private company, minimising administrative costs by introducing thresholds below which no checking by or notification to the Commission is required, extending the period of aid and providing the possibility of extending the aid regulation.
Then we also fail to see - and some proposed amendments also relate to this - why, according to this philosophy, multimodal platforms or inland ports should be burdened with a de facto notification requirement.
I fear that this incentive for a modal shift, of which we are, of course, in favour, is counterproductive, brings about distortion of competition and undermines the work that has been done in the framework of the rail infrastructure package.
We will therefore be voting against Recital No 14 and Article 4.
The European Union, which is ostensibly opposed to national state aid capable of distorting competition, is preparing, in the proposed report, to renege on its own proposals so as to be able to continue its policy of privatising public services.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, the regulation on the granting of aid for the coordination of transport by rail, road and inland waterway endeavours to do some good, to help, with a new aid scheme, to make something out of the set phrases spouted by soap-box speakers on the subject of transport, by shifting traffic, especially freight traffic, on to more environmentally-friendly modes of transport, mainly from the roads to the railways, inland waterways etc.
And the detailed work produced by our rapporteur on this proposal is also good, including what the Committee has added in a whole series of proposed amendments, including short sea shipping, including combined transport procedures, disregarding whether the carrier is a public or private company, not to mention a de minimis rule intended to keep excessive administrative costs within prescribed limits.
The Commission has just submitted a proposal to abolish - without replacing - the quantitative ceiling of 108% in the agreement on transit traffic through Austria.
This proposal for a Regulation concerning state aid for the inland transport sector implements Article 73 of the Treaty, according to which aids for the coordination of transport are compatible with Community law.
Our intention, therefore, is to create a transparent, coherent and clear framework so that there will not be distortions in the market.
Roughly half of the amendments agree with the Commission' s position and can therefore be accepted.
According to this concept, any public aid to a company performing an economic activity, whatever its legal status, is an example of state aid to which the rules of the Treaty apply.
Neither Amendment Nos 21 or 37 can change this fundamental principle of Community law.
The aim of several amendments is to encourage rail and combined transport through the granting of public subsidies in detriment to other transport modes.
But, ladies and gentlemen, we shall achieve this if the railways are able to give good quality service and are thus competitive, and to this end I believe the measures we are setting in motion are the best.
A key element of the proposal is to create conditions of equality, so that there can be fair competition between companies based on the user-pays principal, which takes into account external and infrastructure costs.
As a consequence, state aid should confine itself to compensating for certain external costs, all within a framework of fair competition.
Aid for passenger services, however, under Article 73, is regulated in the Commission regulation on public services, which proposes a complete and appropriate framework on the manner in which the public authorities can support the provision of internal passenger transport services.
Therefore the aim of these amendments is ultimately to change this regulation, and the Commission cannot therefore accept them.
But what we can never do is subordinate the need to assess concrete plans for public aid to an agreement by the European institutions on common standards.
On the basis of a pragmatic approach and in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, and until we have these standards accepted jointly by everyone, the Commission leaves the choice of the method for assessing these costs in each specific case to the Member States.
In view of all these arguments, the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 13, 16, 18 (second part), 19, 20, 24, 27, 33, 36, 40, 44, 45 and 51.
We cannot accept Amendments Nos 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 17, 18 (first part), 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 42, 43, 46, 47, 48, 49 and 52.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In 1996, at the end of the conciliation procedure, we had the Commission communication on improving ports in the trans-European networks.
Then the Council took its time.
Nonetheless, I think the end is in sight.
After lengthy discussion, we also have a perfectly proper and reasonable definition as to what constitutes infrastructure and what can and cannot be aided in ports and inland ports.
At the same time, we have amended Project No 8, one of the major projects of the Essen Council' s 14 projects, which was later confirmed in Dublin, in close harmony in the codecision procedure, which was very difficult at the time.
I am particularly pleased that the Commission has promised to include the Elbe-Lübeck Canal in its proposal at the next revision.
If I may add a comment: in my view, we overestimated the TEN somewhat right from the outset.
I think that the classification which we have found together with the Council is a very good one.
Thus, with a view to creating equal conditions - which was the whole point - for all ports in the Union, as regards eligible investments and the application of stricter criteria and requirements for classifying sea ports in the European network and supporting inland ports, the following classification terms have finally been adopted: for international sea ports: 1.5 million tonnes of freight or 2 million passengers a year, provided that they have intermodal terminals with the rest of the network, for Community ports: 500 000 tonnes or 100-200 000 passengers per year and for inland ports: 500 000 tonnes of freight.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, among the most important infrastructures in island regions are the ports.
If, in addition, these regions are remote, this importance becomes strategic.
We are therefore interested to see the Council proposal on the change to this decision, approved in 1996.
Nevertheless, I believe the most important thing is that these ports are included in the trans-European transport networks, with the positive consequences that will bring.
Particularly given the fact that most world trade is by sea, it was always a great omission that the TENs ports were never part of the TENs decision.
It is even more pleasurable because the maritime sector is probably the most environmentally sustainable part of the TENs network.
The lesson for Parliament, the Commission and the Council on transport matters is that in future we should be doing less, but doing it better.
Ports such as Newhaven will be given the welcome boost that they so badly need to try and secure a role in the future.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Piecyk, I should first of all like to congratulate you on the revision of the decision.
These have been three years of effort to adopt this proposal for the inclusion of nodes in the trans-European networks.
The incorporation of the ports into the trans-European networks is an absolutely essential factor in general, and is especially relevant to the outermost regions of the European Union.
The fact that in Madeira Porto Santo or Porto Funchal can be included, in the Azores Punta Delgada, in the Canaries Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Cristianos, Santa Cruz de la Palma, San Sebastián de la Gomera, Las Palmas or Arrecife, in Réunion Pointe des Galets, in Guadeloupe Pointe-à-Pitre, or in Martinique Fort de France and Basse-Terre, clearly shows how important it is for these archipelagos that their ports can be incorporated once and for all as essential elements within the trans-European networks, bringing these outermost regions closer to the rest of the European Union.
I believe this formula is much better suited to the need for the Iberian Peninsula to be integrated with the rest of the continent of Europe.
Furthermore, the Commission will continue working both in the field of revising the trans-European networks and in fostering intermodal and coastal trade programmes.
I believe these advances will also be helped by our proposals to introduce more competition into seaports and more safety in the maritime sector (remember all last year' s work on the Erika I and Erika II packages), simplifying administrative procedures, and a series of other future measures aimed at facilitating coastal or maritime transport in general, as well as inland waterway transport.
Thank you, Commissioner De Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to welcome you this evening to the House.
We therefore thank the Commission for initiating this legislative procedure.
Parliament made a huge effort, as did I in my capacity as rapporteur, to get the directive finally adopted in a single reading using the procedure provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
For example, lawyers have a duty of professional secrecy as regards the information entrusted to them by their clients.
This is a fundamental right of the clients, a fundamental right which is also set out in the Charter of European Fundamental Rights which was solemnly proclaimed in Nice recently.
The identification obligations contained in this directive, as it stands following the common position, are overly bureaucratic and unusable.
The European Parliament will endeavour to adopt this directive quickly.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we know from estimates by Europol that approximately 30% of all crime can already be attributed to organised crime.
For example - and these too are figures from confirmed sources - human traffickers alone launder some EUR 1.1 billion from their work, namely getting illegal immigrants over the border, and some EUR 51 billion are laundered in the European Union from drug dealing in eastern Europe every year.
As a result, the situation is now such that we need to create a new instrument, because we can no longer manage with the old 1991 directive.
The Lehne proposal - as Mr Lehne himself has pointed out - is a proposal which does not affect normal citizens looking for an apartment somewhere; on the contrary, it gets to the crux of the matter: only when a transaction is completed need identification be requested.
I therefore hope that it will receive Parliament' s full and broad support because it will allow us to create an efficient instrument in the fight against organised crime.
The European Community adopted a directive to fight money laundering very early on and this triggered laws in the Member States, which previously had no such legislation.
The lobbying of lawyers' organisations against this common position has been somewhat exaggerated.
If the European Parliament remains firm over the basic issue, I think that the Council will ultimately change to the extent we require.
Professional secrecy is untouchable, not just in the context of trials in process but also in the context of legal consultation.
As a matter of fact, the proposal also contains other little traps, such as the open door to Member States to extend the type of information supplied by lawyers to other areas, which makes the Council' s text particularly dangerous and perverse.
What the directive must do is to guarantee to protect professional secrecy, which is not a guarantee for lawyers but for society, for the rule of law and for Europe' s citizens.
With regard to the first point, the joint document puts forward a text that defines organised crime, including in the definition of alleged money laundering offences those related to organised crime.
However, I cannot support the further extension to other offences - fraud and corruption, at least serious - as the existence of seriousness is made clear insofar as these offences affect the financial interests of the European Union, if, therefore, they are covered by the provisions of Article 1(e) of the Second Protocol to the Convention on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests.
Mr President, this is a very important report and it approaches a difficult subject.
We have a GBP 50 note which is worth about EUR 80, but that is very rare.
So if I were a forger I would start out now forging EUR 500 notes and have a field day for the next few months until people come to terms with it.
Mr President, this subject rightly commands a lot of attention, both in this Parliament and elsewhere.
I should like to assure Members that these proceedings attract a lot of attention in institutions outside this Parliament which are engaged in fighting money laundering.
The fight against money laundering, as several Members have stressed, is a top political priority and is now an integral part of the campaign against serious and organised crime.
The Commission believes that the common position adopted unanimously last November represents a reasonable compromise on the question of the criminal activity covered - the matter of the so-called predicate offences - and also on the safeguards for the inclusion of the profession, in particular lawyers, within the scope of the directive.
In response to concerns in Parliament about cases where the lawyer is defending or representing a client in legal proceedings or helping the client to determine his legal position, I should like to stress that there is no question of any obligation to report suspicions of money laundering.
I agree with Baroness Ludford when she says that in this respect the proposal is a good compromise between protecting fundamental rights when lawyers defend their clients in court or help the clients to determine their legal position, but not when they are participating in preparations leading up to an activity covered by this directive.
The international community is looking to the European Union to find solutions to those difficult questions.
Amendments Nos 1 and 10 deal with predicate offences and would mark a major step back from the ambitious common position.
Numbers 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 13 and 22 deal essentially with the treatment of the professions.
The Commission is also reluctant to envisage a Member State option to allow all the professions the possibility of reporting their suspicions to a professional body, but it firmly backs this possibility for the legal professions.
Nevertheless it also insists on this point.
That has nothing to do with human rights; it has everything to do with an efficient campaign against money laundering activities, which is a serious matter.
Amendments Nos 7 and 11 relate to the role of the competent authorities.
Amendment No 9 would extend the definition of financial institutions to include certain market authorities.
Amendment No 14 would change the coverage of non-financial activities in a way that is unacceptable to the Commission.
Amendments Nos 15 and 16 deal with client identification.
I should like to read out Article 3 of the proposal where it says that: "Member States shall ensure that the institutions and persons subject to this directive require identification of their customers by means of supporting evidence when entering into business relations".
The Commission therefore believes that the common position in this regard provides the necessary scope for flexibility.
Amendments Nos 17 and 28 - the latter of which reached us today - are concerned with identification where there is no face-to-face contact.
The Commission is afraid that Amendment No 17 would make the text too inflexible with possible negative repercussions for e-commerce.
Amendment No 28 retains the flexibility sought by the Commission, but the precise wording still poses certain problems.
Amendment No 18 seeks to amend the exemptions from client identification for certain insurance contracts.
In the Commission's view, a detailed technical examination of this question would be necessary before these amounts could be revised.
Amendments Nos 19 and 20 deal with identification requirements for casino customers.
The Commission considers that these amendments do not improve the common position.
Amendments Nos 23 and 25 amend the provisions of the 1991 Directive on suspicious transaction reporting, which have not given rise to any problems in the past and, in the Commission's view, do not need to be changed.
Finally, Amendments Nos 26 and 27 refer to OLAF.
In deleting all reference to OLAF in the common position, the Council invited the Commission to make a separate proposal under Article 280.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
OISIN is a programme of cooperation between law enforcement authorities with a budget of EUR 8 million.
The Commission has proposed extending the GROTIUS, OISIN and STOP multi-annual programmes by a further two years.
The Commission' s implementation reports confirm that the programme objectives have been achieved.
I am in favour of including candidate countries in these programmes at the earliest possible opportunity, simply because the reform of the police and judiciary in these countries leaves a great deal to be desired.
The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs would have liked a more comprehensive and ambitious programme from the Commission.
It is difficult to allocate a project to a specific funding programme if it relates to a general subject, such as the Charter of Fundamental Rights, or to several technical areas at once or involves both Member States and candidate countries.
The fact that most funding is for third party projects begs the question of whether the institutions have no priorities of their own which require funding.
I am thinking here, for example, of asylum seekers, of victims of crime or projects to improve infrastructure.
The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs therefore proposes that plenary support the Commission proposals but, at the same time, calls on the Commission to present a proposal well before the end of 2001, consolidating all the initiatives designed to create an area of freedom, security and justice on the basis of Title VI of the Treaty on European Union and Title IV of the Treaty establishing the European Community, in order to strengthen citizens' rights and fundamental rights.
I also see this network as an accompanying instrument for the purpose of implementing the Brussels II Convention.
In order to learn from the experience of the judicial network in criminal matters, the new network needs to cooperate closely with the contact points of the judicial network in criminal matters.
I think that this programme, Mr Vitorino, is one of the main elements in a European area of freedom, security and justice.
The GROTIUS programme will help to ensure that European law is not just law in the books, but law in action.
That is because training systems differ, the degree to which people are affected varies widely in the various regions of the European Union and, of course, the national judicial systems have very different definitions of what they expect from individual professional groups, be they judges, public prosecutors, lawyers etc.
Allow me to illustrate this with a very specific example.
We feel that it makes more sense to create a flexible, pragmatic, practicable framework within which those who wish to receive further training in European law can determine the subject matter themselves and tailor the various measures accordingly.
Oddly, this theme of our citizens' access to justice in civil and commercial matters was not mentioned.
This proposal states that its aim is to create a European judicial area which will bring tangible benefits to every citizen.
Our citizens are increasingly finding themselves involved in complex cross-border problems: road traffic accidents, buying property or a timeshare, actual problems that face our citizens.
This should be central to this network - a network of judicial personnel is one thing, but a network that really provides cross-border access to justice would be the best way to recognise progress towards a real area of justice in Europe for our citizens, and this on the day of the annual debate on that subject.
First and foremost, we have focused on the importance of cooperation and exchanges of information between the Member States' judicial authorities, with a view to creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
I should also like to hear Commissioner Vitorino' s opinion on this matter.
International organised crime is more successful, more powerful and more dangerous than ever.
The European Union, Europe, will become one huge Disneyland for organised crime.
Our Group supports both reports submitted by Mrs Keßler.
The de facto situation is that these programmes came to an end in 2000.
This method will, moreover, enable the Commission to rationalise the management of the programmes and to integrate them into a general framework which corresponds to the area of freedom, security and justice called for by the Treaties, by the Vienna action plan and by the conclusions of the Tampere European Council.
We are counting on constructive dialogue with, and the support of, the European Parliament to make this operation a success.
I would now like to turn to the Commission proposal for a Council decision establishing a European judicial network in civil and commercial matters.
As you are aware, Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union states that the aim of the European Union is to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice.
The Vienna action plan and the conclusions of the Tampere Summit recognised that citizens could only enjoy freedom in an area of justice in which they could gain access to the courts and to the authorities of all Member States as easily as in their own countries.
As regards the proposals for amendments contained in the legislative proposal, first of all I can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5 and 9.
Concerning Amendment No 9, on the other hand, it is fitting to allow a certain margin of flexibility in its operation.
As regards Amendment No 4, the Commission has its doubts.
However, this does not mean that the Commission rejects the idea of developing databases in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters.
On the contrary, we would like to be able to develop such databases in this field provided, for example, they can be of significant assistance for monitoring the implementation of adopted or future instruments.
Another amendment that the Commission cannot accept as it stands but whose essence will be written into the text of the decision is Amendment No 7.
However, the Commission is unable to accept Amendment No 8 and has its doubts about Amendment No 6 concerning collaboration with the judicial network in criminal matters.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Vitorino.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Europe is not abandoning them and does not want them to carry the can for a situation of which they are very often the victims.
There is a deficit in such production in Europe as a result, inter alia, of the Blair House agreements.
The question is whether this should be limited to boosting organic farming on the basis of Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 or whether it is possible to go further.
The best solution would have been to allow conventional farmers to sow set-aside land with protein crops before 15 August 2001, but the Commission did not accept this.
This isolated proposal should be but a first step towards a more complete reform of the common agricultural policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the present proposal for the amendment of the Regulation establishing a support system for producers of certain arable crops, the Commission is pursuing the aim of encouraging environmental agriculture by means of the cultivation of fodder legumes on land set aside.
At least, however, in addition to the organic holdings, holdings should be considered which are participating in the agri-environment programmes, that is to say holdings which, within the framework of Regulation 1257/99, are participating in national environment programmes approved by the committee.
It is clear to every farmer affected by BSE and foot-and-mouth and who is participating in these support measures that the EU is giving no new cause for celebration here.
After the animal meal fodder ban, it just makes sense to encourage the cultivation of highly protein-rich legumes.
But even if it is revised in this way, the proposal is clearly not in line with the extent of the problem we have to solve.
Our deficit in protein and oleaginous crops, which was made considerably worse by the Blair House constraints, exceeded 35 million tonnes before the ban on animal meal for monogastric animals even came into force.
I will come back to this in tomorrow' s debate.
Our aim - the aim of the Commission - is quite a different one, namely to create an additional encouragement of environmental agriculture, since organic farmers are dependent on the cultivation of fodder legumes like clover and lucerne to a greater degree than conventional agriculture.
Firstly, it should be guaranteed that the land set aside remains an effective instrument for the control of production, in order to keep our aquaculture subsidies in the Blue Box.
Secondly, a certain preference for organic holdings is therefore appropriate here, since otherwise it would be much harder for these to be able to fulfil their production conditions.
In conclusion, one final obvious comment on the proposal discussed today: only if the Council can decide quickly will the organic farmers be able to profit from the opportunity offered, since our proposal would already also take into account the set-aside period from 15 January 2001 and apply from then on.
Namely, I would have liked to have heard if anyone had said that what the committee has here proposed and what we have gone on to examine more thoroughly and make more detailed proposals about fills the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture with great satisfaction.
No one has said that we - and I in particular - have now been occupied with this work for years, that we are very happy that Commissioner Fischler has now made this proposal and that - even if we do not adopt all the proposals - we are nevertheless embarking upon this use of land set aside and upon the environmental revaluation of crop rotation.
I wanted to say that as a personal remark.
But what you said was interesting Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The Treaty of Nice gave better recognition to your demographic weight within the European Union, and all the other Member States, especially the least populated States, are expecting you, together with the other major States, to continue to ensure that the Community spirit continues to hold sway over numerical rules when decisions are taken at a European level.
Our current efforts to bring candidate countries up to the required economic and structural level already demand, and will continue to demand, a high financial input from the European Union.
To sum up, I would like to stress that, of all the countries which have contributed to ensuring that the European Parliament has gained recognition for its role in promoting the democratic functioning of the European Union, Germany has always been at the forefront.
In 271 days, the citizens of twelve European countries will have a single currency in their wallets.
But it is much more than a merely functional community.
I think it is important not to allow doubt and criticism to target individual measures and their impact.
Now I sometimes hear it said that a democratic process in the traditional sense is no longer possible in Europe because there is no single European nation.
But that should not prevent us from strengthening the principles of democracy at European level.
This is in no way contradicted by the fact that, in all other cases, these people have quite different interests and want to be sure that these differences are safeguarded.
That is precisely what Europe is doing.
One frequent argument against a constitution is that every additional step in the unification process is yet another step towards a European "superstate" and towards the abolition of the nation states.
If we want a European Union which is a federation of nation states, it is because it improves the democratic credentials of community action, while guaranteeing the nation states the powers which they want to and should retain.
In order to counter the fear of creeping centralisation in Europe, I think we should also consider expressly stipulating the powers reserved for the Member States.
I spoke at the beginning of the uneasiness of many of our citizens, who experience or feel that they have too little influence on how quickly, in which direction and towards what destination the European unification train is travelling.
The European Parliament - you, honourable Members - should become the citizens' chamber.
But often the Commission is used as a scapegoat and the hunt for scapegoats is everyone' s favourite pastime! (Laughter, applause) I recognise the tendency of almost all national governments to brand decisions which they themselves have taken at European level as the monstrous invention of European regulatory mania ... (Loud applause) ...
The citizens of Europe will be more interested in what is going on in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg, they will identify more closely with it, even if they disagree with certain decisions.
Just think of the euro, its internal stability and its external value.
Just think of peace in our corner of the world, the desire for healthy food or the rules governing transfers of football players within Europe.
We must ensure during the constitutional debate that the Commission continues to represent the Community' s interests. (Applause) This mainstay of the European unification process, the Commission' s right of initiative, must stay. (Applause) Debates over recent months have shown that the intergovernmental method has reached the end of its useful life. (Loud applause) And we are still only a Europe of the Fifteen!
The debate on the future of Europe should be broader than the debate held in a classic type of Intergovernmental Conference. (Applause) When the convention to prepare the European Charter of Fundamental Rights was set up in 1999, there were a lot of sceptics.
We should be extremely careful and make every effort to ensure that the debate on the future of Europe is not just held in expert circles.
We must involve all interested citizens.
I agree with my Italian colleague, President Ciampi, and many other people that we must also involve the citizens of the candidate countries in this debate. (Applause) The future European constitution will also be their future order.
