Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (NL) Mr President, the Leinen report is yet further evidence of the pernicious system of self-service which this European Union is developing in all political parties.
For God's sake let them shut up about democratisation and stop disguising their voracious appetite for money as a desire to help society. (NL) Mr President, I voted against the Roure report for a number of basic reasons.
Let us hope that all the Member States and political groupings can adopt the same balanced and wise approach as our rapporteur. (NL) Mr President, I voted against the Leinen report on the financing of European political parties because it is not acceptable for European funds to be channelled into existing European political associations, thereby discriminating against groups which do not feel the need to organise themselves at European level.
That is very dangerous, once we know that normal public debate on Islam and Islamisation can be interpreted as incitement to hatred of Muslims.
For all these various reasons we regard the whole debate as unacceptable and we voted against both the Leinen and Roure reports. (NL) Mr President, I voted against the Leinen report because the rules on the financing of European parties, which I already regard as unacceptable per se, are being broadened.
In order to qualify, not only numerical but also ideological criteria are to be applied, and that means that parties which row against the tide will have no chance.
The established parties and groups decide who gets funding.
The principle of financing for European parties was cautiously mooted a few years ago.
In these circumstances you will understand, Mr President, that I voted against this self-service formula. (PL) Mr President, I voted today for adoption of the resolution on the situation in Georgia.
The international community, of which the European Union and the Russian Federation are part, must make every effort to ensure that the forthcoming election in Georgia is conducted democratically, with respect for human rights and freedom of the media.
This relates primarily to anti-discrimination provisions, but also to such rights as the self-evident right of the elderly to participate in social and cultural life.
I have come to the conclusion that the existence of this Charter will not essentially enrich our lives. (GA) Mr President, I am voting in favour of this report because I firmly believe that the Reform Treaty, or the Treaty of Lisbon, confers legal status on the Charter of Fundamental Rights with its 54 individual rights, including the right to life, the prohibition of torture, equality before the law, respect for family life, and the right to justice.
This is contrary to the United Nations Declaration on Human Cloning of 8 March 2005, which recognises the necessity of banning all forms of human cloning.
I would have liked to have supported Article 26 on the rights of the integration of persons with disabilities. (NL) I do no want there to be any misunderstanding here, Mr President.
The fact that I voted no to the Leinen report on fundamental rights must certainly not be taken to mean that I am against Europeans being given more fundamental rights and freedoms, on the contrary.
I am in favour of Europe as a confederation of free nations and consequently I voted against this report on fundamental rights, without, of course, being opposed to fundamental basic rights per se. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, seven hours underground in a cell in the Belgian Palais de Justice, thanks to the Mayor of Brussels and the silence of the competent authorities, gave me plenty of time to think about fundamental rights.
I am pointing the finger, and it is for that reason that the Lega Nord voted against the Charter of Fundamental Rights, at the lack of attention that has been paid to the dangers inherent in Article 10.
As regards freedom of religion, no question, but freedom of observance, without limits?
These are real problems and the European Union should also be mindful of these risks and dangers and protect its own citizens, its culture and its traditions, the identity of the European peoples, if we want a Europe of peoples and not a Europe that becomes a melting pot, in which fundamental rights are not really protected.
We are the proof of that, we who have been thrown in jail for defending our ideas and the rights of European citizens, while Europe watched on in silence. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also voted against the report on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, not because I am against those rights, but to highlight an ambiguity, a danger inherent in the wording of those rights, in particular - as Mr Borghezio has already pointed out - in Article 10, where there are no limits on the freedom of religious worship, practice and observance.
The report has merit and addresses many of the concerns we all share.
However, we have decided to vote against some of the amendments to paragraphs, because we believe that global warming must be addressed through sustainable measures which do not have an adverse effect on economic growth or the long-term prospects of Europe's social model.
The European Union has taken the lead in proposing far-reaching solutions on how to tackle climate change.
We believe that Europe's proposals have become the benchmark for any future discussion, and that they are compatible with our economic model.
We believe that global trade has been beneficial to the world economy, but at the same time we acknowledge that more needs to be done, especially in the transport sector, to reduce harmful emissions.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - I will be voting in favour of this report because at last it allows Member States, and in particular the United Kingdom, to carry on using imperial measurements.
The great game of rugby league went metric years ago.
in writing. - It is clear now that, despite the worst attempts of some to denigrate the European Union on the basis of measurements, the EU is able to deal with issues in a practical manner.
The use of imperial measurements alongside metric ones has been with UK citizens for some time.
Although schools now refer to a metric system and many have grown up with these measurements, the principle for many others to use imperial measurements remains.
in writing. - (PT) We must ensure that justice in Europe does not remain restricted within national borders that have already physically disappeared between the Member States.
It is essential to guarantee equal treatment for all EU citizens, regardless of their nationality or country of residence.
in writing. - (FR) I support the minority opinion officially expressed by Mr Dillen.
in writing. - (FR) The purpose of Mrs Roure's report is to combat racism.
It is high time to put an end to these aberrations: the authorities' soft approach, the insane immigration policy of the last 30 years, and the supposed anti-racism which in France is more like out-and-out anti-French racism.
in writing. - (FR) The European Union is not just a Single Market, it is above all a union of peoples who share the same values, in particular protection for individual fundamental rights.
in writing. - (SV) Mrs Roure's report gave rise to much head-scratching.
Sweden has a generous attitude to freedom of expression, press freedom and freedom of religion.
Of course freedom of expression cannot be absolute.
in writing. - (FR) The text adopted today is an important step for the audiovisual media sector and also for Europe's citizens.
Recognising the right of access to short extracts also marks real progress for broadcasting bodies, including pan-European ones, provided that this right is exercised reasonably.
This practice already exists, but is currently developing without any regulatory framework and therefore without transparency or legal certainty.
We have reinstated what we felt was essential in the text, and to our surprise and pleasure we have to admit that almost all our new proposals have been accepted.
in writing. - (PT) The illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition have harmful effects on the security of all inhabitants of the EU.
In addition, tracing firearms is of the greatest importance in the fight against organised crime.
It is important for it also to consider the changes that the Commission's 2000 report identified as necessary.
in writing. - I voted in favour of my group colleague Ms Kallenbach's report on weapons, which represents a well-earned compromise.
Mr President, I am voting in favour of the adoption of Mrs Kallenbach's report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on control of the acquisition and possession of weapons - C6-0081/2006 -.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report and welcome the accession of the European Communities to the UN Protocol on the acquisition and possession of firearms.
Young people will be able to take part in sporting pursuits only under the supervision of their trainers and parents.
in writing. - This report on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons should be welcomed.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the Dumitrescu report and I am delighted that thanks to Parliament's efforts we have been able to adopt viable compromises for all the players involved.
For Luxembourg, Article 5 of the regulation is vitally important.
This would have had devastating consequences for the smaller Member States, since businesses operating in the Single Market from these countries would have been forced to apply up to 27 different national legislations, which would have deterred SMEs in particular from undertaking commercial activities beyond their national borders.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats voted for the report since we think it important, from the point of view of legal security and in the context of developments which have taken place in both commerce and marketing, that we should have modern common rules for the choice of law in contractual obligations.
However, we are not happy with the compromise which has emerged and therefore voted against paragraph 2 in Amendment 77 which concerns consumer contracts.
in writing. - My group tabled an important amendment to the Scheele report.
in writing. - (DE) After lengthy deliberations, we, the rapporteurs from the political groups in this House, agreed on a compromise for the amendment of Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed as regards the implementing powers conferred on the Commission.
This compromise was reached after consultation with other bodies, including the Council.
EU parties already cost the taxpayers over EUR 10 million in the 2007 EU budget, and it looks as though the political foundations will get as much again in financial contributions.
This means that, in future, EU taxpayers will have to pay around 190 million Swedish kronor to the EU parties and organisations linked to them.
in writing. - (NL) In countries where different peoples live together it is usual for there to be no parties that operate nationwide.
So how could the EU have 'European' parties?
For this reason we voted against earlier decisions on the financing of European parties and we are also against raising the level of it to 85%.
This constitutes direct interference in the political action of the European political parties and the national political parties of which they are made up.
It would also amount to indirect interference in the political and electoral processes in the Member States, since it would - through the planned funding - give rise to 'favoured' and 'non-favoured' political parties, with subsequent repercussions on the results of the European Parliament elections.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favor of this resolution hoping that it will have a concrete impact on the situation in Georgia and on its decision to firmly continue the democratic reform, as well as on the process to consolidate EU actions in this country and, in general, in the Eastern neighbourhood.
Third, the resolution ignores the fact that it is the deterioration in the social and economic situation in Georgia and the living conditions of the majority of the population - with the fall in income and employment - that is at the root of the current social dissatisfaction and has intensified internal disparities, which those in power are seeking to use and manipulate, as they have also done in the recent past.
in writing. - (PT) The Charter of Fundamental Rights approved in Nice in 2000 is a list of common European values with which all citizens can identify.
in writing. - (FR) The fact that the European Union is once again preparing to approve the Charter of Fundamental Rights shows just how the people of Europe are being deceived.
However, Protocol 7 of the future Lisbon Treaty, which arranges the opt-out for the UK and Poland, provides 'for the avoidance of doubt' that 'the Charter does not extend the ability of the Court of Justice of the European Union' to pass judgment on laws or regulations of these countries on the basis of the Charter, nor does it 'create justiciable rights applicable to Poland or the United Kingdom'.
in writing. - (SV) All EU institutions are already bound by international law guaranteeing protection of human rights.
Apart from this, all EU countries have ratified the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
On the other hand, a new text would pose a risk of legal insecurity in that the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg might make rulings which run counter to decisions taken by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which already operates satisfactorily.
Instead we call on the Member States to initiate negotiations in order to allow the EU to accede to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, so that the EU institutions will also be bound by these common human rights provisions.
in writing. - (PT) It would seem that the European Parliament has approved (?) the 'Charter of Fundamental Rights' (CFR) for the second time, seven years on from the first.
These 'explanations' are fundamental for interpretation of the content of the CFR but almost never accompany it.
in writing. - (NL) 'The peoples of Europe, in creating an ever closer union among them, are resolved to share a peaceful future based on common values.' So reads the first sentence of the preamble to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union which the EU leaders signed in Nice on 7 December 2000.
My view is that it would have been better if the EU had just signed up to the Council of Europe's European Convention on Human Rights.
in writing. - I welcome, and voted for, the Leinen Report on the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
However, I abstained on the amendment which urged Poland to make every effort to apply the Charter of Fundamental Rights fully - as a British Member, I thought this might be a little hypocritical.
in writing. - (PT) I abstained in the vote on this proposal because the Portuguese Constitution provides better protection for Fundamental Rights and because the opinion, held by some, that Community law has primacy over Member States' domestic law could lead to very damaging legal disputes.
The Charter is a key instrument in our Union, giving rights to all citizens of the Union - individual rights as well as rights linked to citizenship.
That is why I still hope that the Charter will apply to all 27 Member States, without exception - including in first place my home country, Poland.
It is important for our citizens, and it is also an incentive to control the actions of the EU institutions in areas in which the Member States have granted them the right to act.
in writing. - (PL) The Charter of Fundamental Rights complicates the system for protecting fundamental rights in Europe.
in writing. (SV) We Swedish and Danish Social Democrats chose to vote in favour of Amendment 41 in the report.
in writing. - The PPE-DE Group is strongly supportive of the principle of flexicurity, and of helping employees as well as employers adapt to the challenges of globalisation.
However we have also made clear that we could not support the final report if two late amendments were passed.
in writing. - (PT) We voted against because it is unacceptable for the European Parliament to support the European Commission's fundamental objectives on flexicurity.
in writing. - (SV) The employment policies of the Member States should be determined nationally by way of a broad and democratically anchored debate based on research and national experience.
If that had been the case, some continental countries, led by Germany, would have implemented EU legislation which would have had devastating consequences for employment and growth in Europe and would have been well nigh impossible to change.
The new Member States would have been forced to adopt the policy as part of the acquis communautaire and hence would have been compelled to start as new Member States under unreasonable conditions.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the Christensen report because it adopts an appropriate and widely supported approach to combining flexibility and security in manner.
in writing. - I broadly welcome the thrust of the Commission's paper on flexicurity.
With this report, Parliament makes it clear that flexicurity should improve job security and promote employment security.
in writing. - (EL) I voted against the Christensen report on flexicurity, because in the name of flexibility of labour relations it weakens the protection of regular employment and employee security.
Harmonising the minimum wage at European level could lead to vital progress in conditions of employment for Europe's workers.
in writing. - (DE) We voted against this report, because it is a ragbag of contradictory statements with no sign of a clear line on any major social issue.
in writing. - (SV) The concept of flexicurity has now unfortunately gained such a foothold in the debate that it is not possible to avoid it.
in writing. - (PT) The European Commission's proposal for a new European tourism policy presented in its Communication 'A renewed EU Tourism Policy: Towards a stronger partnership for European Tourism', which is the subject of this report, deserves our full support.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Costa report on tourism policy.
The tourism industry plays an important role in the economies of every European nation and is absolutely vital in many rural areas such as the Scottish Highlands and Islands.
It is important that we in the EU give our full support to the development of a tourist industry which takes account of local economies, cultural and linguistic diversity, and environmental well-being.
I was recently informed about practices at the Victoria Garden Suites Hotel in Strasbourg, when Slovak tourists were downgraded from a three-star to a two-star hotel and treated as if they were second-class citizens.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report as it contains many good ideas on how to progress our tourism policy.
Yet resources given to industrial heritage both at national and European level are small compared to other tourism sectors.
in writing. - (DE) I endorse the report on a new EU tourism policy.
in writing. - (FR) The new EU tourism policy must make better provision for consumer protection, which is why I am calling for the certification of internet sites offering tourist services.
There are also considerations on the need to protect, conserve and restore the European cultural heritage.
Parliament calls on the Commission to provide the Member States with a guide to improve political coordination in the development of tourism at national, regional and local levels.
I have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - I have decided to vote in favour of the Alain Lipietz report on 'Trade and Climate Change' at the November mini-plenary session in Brussels.
However, I have decided to vote against some of the amendments and paragraphs because I believe that global warming has to be addressed through sustainable measures which do not have an adverse effect on world economic growth, or the long-term prospects of Europe's social model.
The European Union has taken the lead in proposing far-reaching solutions on how to tackle climate change.
I believe that Europe's proposals have become the benchmark for any future discussion, and believe they are compatible with our economic model.
I believe that global trade has been beneficial to the world economy, but at the same time I acknowledge that more needs to be done, especially in the transport sector, to reduce harmful emissions.
in writing. - (PT) I voted for the Lipietz report on trade and climate change because I believe that Europe should be a world leader in the fight against climate change and, for this reason, I believe that the European Union's trade policy must be substantially changed in order to promote a low carbon economy.
in writing. - (SV) We moderates succeeded today in persuading the European Parliament to vote against the proposal to introduce tariffs for goods from countries which have not signed the Kyoto Protocol.
We have therefore voted in favour of the report on trade and climate change.
Openness and trade are also the precondition for technology transfer, which will enable developing countries today to have a better environment more quickly than we could ourselves.
Trade - free trade - is an important motor for the global economy and it is something we must support.
Yet this transition will need to be carefully managed if some of the poorest people in the world are not to bear the burden of the industrialised world's profligacy in carelessly abusing the planet's environmental resources.
in writing. - (SV) Junilistan thinks that the EU has an important role to play in the fight to reduce mankind's effect on the Earth's climate.
The EU should instead continue on its chosen path as a model and an ally to all countries in the world which want to act responsibly on climate change.
Junilistan has therefore opted to vote against this report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Lipietz report on trade and climate change.
The government has set a mandatory long-term target to achieve an 80% reduction in Scotland's emissions by 2050.
I believe that this is to be commended and hope that other EU countries adopt equally ambitious targets in their own efforts to combat global warming.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which sets out a number of realistic measures on how trade might be used as part of the fight against climate change.
in writing. - In the vote on Amendment 6 on the Morgantini Report on Advancing African Agriculture, we had a telling insight into the affinities and sympathies of the GUE/NGL Group and the wider left family.
Encouraging many of these countries to make their agricultural economies dependent on the EU is an attempt to bind these countries to an agreement that imposes on them an agricultural model based on monoculture for export, resulting in obvious and serious economic, social and environmental problems for both the people of many African countries and for the people of the EU Member States.
