Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (SK) During the 22 years of its existence, the programme for distributing food to the most deprived people in the Community has contributed towards implementing two main aims of the common agricultural policy.
Mr President, I voted in favour of Mr Czesław Siekierski's report and our resolution on food distribution to the most deprived persons in the Community.
Growing poverty in the EU - when in some countries poverty affects around 20% of the population - clearly shows that the need for food assistance is quite high.
Under the present circumstances, I fully support the European Parliament's position that the EU food distribution programme, which allocates nearly half a billion euros with the aim of diminishing malnutrition and poverty in the EU, should be fully funded by the Community.
This is a crucial step in terms of our legislative arrangements, and I sincerely hope that the Commission will listen to Parliament in their regard.
Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope that the Commission and the competent services in each Member State will implement our own-initiative report as soon as possible, in order, I repeat, to better satisfy employees, on the one hand, and the balance between subcontracting businesses, on the other.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I, too, welcome the fact that, with the alternative resolution, we have succeeded in assigning the Commission the task of submitting a directive on the liability of general undertakings throughout Europe.
I hope that the Commission will comply with our request and submit a directive.
The proposed system of negotiation is unrealistic in view of the number of entities operating in the market, and limits competition. (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted against the report on food prices in Europe presented by Mrs Batzeli.
While I was reading it I wondered whether we were in the European Union or the Soviet Union, and I believe we are in the European Union.
The local food principle is important, and, consequently, at national level these matters can be examined more closely.
The prices for fertilisers and feed have gone up.
This is not the direction we should be moving in, and that is why we need to ponder these matters nationally, and, more than anything, establish a system in which farmers, the producers of food, can survive, and in which people can buy good quality, healthy food at a reasonable price.
It has now been 50 years that our consumers and farmers have been crucified to pay for this bureaucracy.
Products start at a value of 1 in farms, rise to 6 in supermarkets, and sole starts at a value of 1 in Africa and rises to 14 in French shops, with the result that at 8 p.m. ...
There is speculation in Geneva on the price of rice, there is speculation in Chicago on the price of maize, there is major financial crime, and there is an International Criminal Court.
To sum up, I should like to point out that the destruction of the majority of the properties is due to poor application of the Coastal Law by Mr Zapatero's Socialist government, who are acting in an arbitrary manner, and arbitrarily seizing properties in just one area of Spain. (NL) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Auken report, as I believe that all citizens in Europe have the right to proper application of all legislation and that the private property of each and every citizen in the European Union must be safeguarded by the governments of all Member States.
Many people have fallen victim to questionable decisions in Spain and many of them have addressed these to the Committee on Petitions - rightly, in my view.
Indeed they were recently the subject of a TV documentary by ITV North East, where some of these heart-rending cases were brought to life and were examined for the public of the north-east to see.
I hope even now, at this late stage, that the Spanish Government and Spanish MEPs will right some of the wrongs that have been done and will give some restitution to some of these people who have been unlawfully denied their property and recognise that, actually, what has gone on here is a scandal.
The Spanish Government needs to act.
It is also unacceptable that the report does not clearly state that the United States cannot interfere in EU enlargement policy and that, therefore, Turkey has no place in the European Union. (FI) Mr President, transatlantic relations are very important for us Europeans.
I believe that these are values which unite us and which I hope will also strengthen our relations in the future.
While there have been signs of improvement recently in some Member States, very few claims have been made over the last few decades.
The traditional laws and procedures on civil liability in force in the majority of Member States appear to be inadequate.
I voted in favour of the report compiled by Czesław Adam Siekierski (PPE-DE, Poland) as it proposes the extension of the European food aid programme for the most deprived.
In some of the states which have recently joined the EU poverty affects roughly 20% of the population.
in writing. - (NL) I voted in favour of the report on the amendment of a regulation on the financing of the common agricultural policy and the common organisation of agricultural markets as regards food distribution to the most deprived persons.
We believe that the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the Community should be abolished.
Whether this is done via social security benefits, the distribution of food or by other means should be their decision.
The European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development proposes that the food aid be funded in full by the EU.
in writing. - (NL) The Dutch People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) delegation in the European Parliament voted in favour of the Siekierski report, as we support food distribution to the poorest population groups in the EU.
However, I think that national authorities must be granted more functions with regard to administering the aid on site because they are more familiar with the situation at local level and with the population's specific needs.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish Liberal Party's MEPs have voted against the European Commission's proposal on food distribution to the most deprived persons because the proposal has been tabled with a legal basis in agricultural policy, even though it is not an agricultural policy instrument.
I believe that the problem of poverty is highly relevant as, even in affluent Europe, more than 80 million people are at risk of poverty and the vast majority of these live in the countries that joined the EU in 2004 and 2007.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur on the need to expand the range of products provided through this food aid programme and on the fact that the primary source of supply should be represented by reserves deriving from intervention in the agricultural markets, thus constituting an important aspect of the common agricultural policy.
India was the European Union's 17th most important trading partner in 2000 and ranked 9th in 2007, while between 2000 and 2006 EU trade in goods with India grew by around 80%.
This will only happen if the barriers to trade and investment in these countries are also reduced.
This is because I believe that the conclusion of such agreements should be entirely subject to respect for fundamental human rights and democracy, which is far from being the case in the country in question.
in writing. - (SV) This report claims that it is important for workers to be aware of their rights and have a good knowledge of labour law and collective agreements.
However, some of the wordings in the report are too far-reaching.
In the final vote on the report as a whole we will abstain as, while parts of the text are positive, the wordings relating to the Community legal instrument are too far-reaching.
I therefore wholeheartedly endorse this report.
The EU must support the use of new technologies and the Internet to provide consumers with more detailed information about products, while, at the same time, facilitating producers' access to the market.
Measures are also needed to assign greater importance to the concept of 'local products' and to provide more effective support to traditional food markets or other traditional types of commerce.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish Social Democratic Members of the European Parliament - Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, Britta Thomsen, Christel Schaldemose, Dan Jørgensen and Ole Christensen - have voted in favour of the report on food prices in Europe.
However, the delegation does not agree with the statement in paragraph 6 of the report that it is deplorable that intervention measures are being dismantled.
I voted in favour of the report on food prices in Europe because I believe that political action is necessary to tackle the rise in prices of agricultural and food products and the discrepancy between the price received by the producer and the price paid by the consumer.
in writing. - (SV) As usual, this 'opinion-soliciting' report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development contains proposals that will entail increased costs for the EU budget.
In order to prevent such bad habits, I have tabled an alternative resolution, which 40 Members have signed to indicate their support.
The measures proposed by Mrs Batzeli in her report are aimed at reducing the pressures exerted by supermarkets and promoting a direct relationship between consumers and producers.
However, it does not state that this situation is a conscious choice by the EU and the governments of the Member States within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy and the CAP.
The liberalisation of the markets, the incentives for mergers and takeovers and the quest for profit and competitiveness in the food industry have resulted in the sovereignty of the multinationals, in higher consumer prices, in lower farm gate prices and in higher profits for capital.
I therefore voted in favour of the report by Mrs Batzeli, who, I believe, handled the matter comprehensively and has proposed very useful measures to address the issue.
There is an urgent need for measures such as those suggested by Mrs Batzeli for greater transparency of the pricing structure and profit margins through coordinated action by national competition authorities, for better regulation of the market and of price trends for food in Europe and for effectively encouraging consumers to choose locally produced foods, which by definition help to shorten the distribution chain and support traditional food markets that are currently in serious difficulty.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, which follows a huge number of petitions to Parliament by victims and concerned citizens from across Europe.
When all domestic remedies have been exhausted in accordance with Article 35 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, individual citizens can turn to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.
There is no reason to introduce any legislation at EU level to deal with these issues or for the European Parliament as an institution to get involved in this matter.
I have voted in favour of the Auken Report, since it clearly criticises the reckless town planning by the Spanish state, and highlights the misuse of Community funds in planning and environment matters.
In connection with these facts the Spanish Government should be called upon to carry out a thorough review of legislation affecting the rights of individual property owners as a result of massive urbanisation, in order to bring an end to the abuse of rights and obligations enshrined in the EC Treaty.
I therefore support the report in question; it is perfectly in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity, and I hope that the local authorities in Spain will take the necessary measures without the need for the European Commission to resort to infringement proceedings.
in writing. - I am pleased Parliament voted in favour of this report.
Many Scottish people have been affected by the Spanish land grab, losing their homes which many have saved a lifetime to afford.
in writing. - As a fervent opponent of the EU and its continual meddling in our lives, I have consistently voted against the vast majority of reports that I have been asked to consider.
I have been approached by many expats, all of whom did everything they could to establish a proper, legal and sustainable life in Spain.
The way forward should be a new policy of global commitment, in which the EU will play its key role.
Obama embodies what is positive and impressive about the United States and today's complex and globalised world, in which change is constant.
in writing. - (NL) This voluminous report rightly advocates a deepening of relations between Europe and the United States.
The people should not entertain any illusions that there will be a change of policy for their benefit.
For these reasons I abstained on the report.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against this resolution because, in my opinion, it would mean Parliament undermining its own credibility.
The underlying belief is always that the mere fact of signing such an agreement improves human rights in the country concerned.
Nowadays the Internet has become the basis for all our personal and institutional relations.
For all these reasons it is clear that we need to protect the fundamental right to privacy on the Internet.
In the last year, cases of Internet abuse of children have risen by 16%, without there having been any effective punishment in most cases or even the ability to find these criminals.
As regards terrorism, there are already around 5 000 terrorist propaganda sites, which form a means of radicalisation and recruitment, as well as serving as a source of information on terrorist methods and resources.
in writing. - (NL) This is a good resolution that strikes a careful balance between rights and obligations and represents a courageous appeal against censorship.
I voted in favour of the Lambrinidis report on strengthening security and fundamental freedoms on the Internet, because I deem it essential that the European Union takes steps to reconcile the fundamental rights of Internet users with the fight against cybercrime, in order to protect citizens, particularly children.
in writing. - (SV) The freedom of expression and the right to a private life are absolute rights that must under no circumstances be undermined.
Naturally enough, we believe that these rights also apply to the Internet, thereby guaranteeing the individual's right to free expression.
The June List is very much in favour of the guarantee of security and the fundamental freedoms on the Internet, but we are opposed to some of the wordings in the report.
The rapporteur also seeks to compare the right to the Internet with the right to access to schooling.
I fully support the Lambrinidis report on security and fundamental freedoms on the Internet.
I think it is very important and necessary, mainly because our presence on the global web is almost universal.
In a word, the Internet has become part of our daily life.
On the other hand, the Internet can also be a convenient communication tool for criminals and terrorists.
I also think that alongside concern for quality of service, the public authorities are responsible for ensuring Internet access for the poorest people and for those who live even in the most isolated regions of the country.
Internet use and development are without doubt a source of important progress, especially where freedom of expression and democracy are concerned.
in writing. - I support this report's aims to strengthen security and fundamental freedoms on the Internet.
All these reasons lead us to support this motion for a resolution and also all the steps aimed at ensuring compliance with international rules on safety and the environment.
