Forced prostitution and trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question - B6-0160/2008) to the Commission by Anna Z치borsk치, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on forced prostitution and trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation.
It is a well-known fact that large-scale events, such as major football championships, draw in criminal gangs involved in these degrading practices, and it is for this reason that the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality launched a campaign on International Women's Day, 8 March 2006, to draw the public's attention to the need to prevent and combat trafficking in women and forced prostitution during the 2006 football World Cup.
This 'Red Card to Forced Prostitution' campaign was a huge success in raising awareness not only among audiences, supporters, but also in society that trafficking in women and forced prostitution must be actively combated.
We should therefore like to raise this issue once again, and make it clear to audiences and to society during Euro 2008 this month that this type of violence against women and girls is unacceptable.
It is important that Member States do implement this action plan.
The 2005 EU action plan on best practices, standards and procedures launched by the Council contains a very ambitious array of measures to fight trafficking in human beings.
As regards the analysis of its substantial transposition and implementation, in January 2007 the Commission launched a study to evaluate the transposition into national law of 10 directives in the field of asylum and immigration, including this Directive.
The final findings of that study, which will soon be made available to the Commission, will provide the basis for a systematic monitoring of the existing acquis in this area, in accordance with Article 226 of the EC Treaty.
Question No 3: the Commission has also launched a study to evaluate Member States' legislation and the situation concerning trafficking in human beings.
Cross-border cooperation between Member States' police forces has a privileged channel in Europol.
How the Commission is agitating for the implementation of the Directive on protection of the victims of trafficking in the Member States is not transparent, nor is its implementation being monitored.
I find it extremely regrettable that the Commission merely points to a study in response to my second question in Parliament on how the Directive on protection of the victims of trafficking is implemented in Germany.
I would ask the Commission ultimately to take a very firm stand on whether the directive has been properly implemented, not only in Germany, but also in the other EU Member States.
The EU and the Member States have been particularly effective in adopting more or less good measures to combat terrorism.
Around 1 000 local and regional action groups and associations were involved in this prevention campaign, and that had a clear deterrent effect upon traffickers in human beings and other criminal networks.
Obviously 18 October is EU Anti-Trafficking Day, which we were able to hold for the first time last year.
This is the only way that we will be able to catch the perpetrators out and show them the red card. (PT) It is vital that we take advantage of the Euro 2008 Championships to inform the general public once again that prostitution and the highly lucrative trafficking of women for the purpose of sexual exploitation are unacceptable, as they are forms of violence against women, girls and children.
This therefore raises another question: how will EU leaders act to fight the fundamental causes of these serious breaches of the human rights of hundreds of thousands of women and young people so as to put an end to these new forms of slavery? (NL) Madam President, during the 2006 World Cup, attention was also drawn to a helpline for victims of trafficking in women and forced prostitution.
Back in 2006, the European Parliament called for such a helpline to be set up that could speak to victims of human trafficking in several languages and offer assistance.
I therefore appeal to all the EU governments which have not yet done so immediately to implement the action plan which the EU developed in 2005 to combat the sex slave trade.
It is necessary for all Member States urgently to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Trafficking and to apply the measures they have agreed, starting with combating the root cause of trafficking for prostitution, which is male demand for women and girls. (SK) With the arrival of the UEFA Euro 2008 Championship, starting in Austria and Switzerland this coming Saturday, we are again reminded of the subject of forced prostitution.
Unfortunately, these sporting events also provide fertile ground for mafia activities, and pose a higher than usual risk of increased trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation.
I am convinced that only a good information campaign during the Euro 2008 Championship about the need to prevent trafficking in women and forced prostitution will open the eyes of the public and expose this horrible type of violence against girls and women. (DA) Madam President, I have a direct question for the Commission regarding what specific initiatives have been taken to prevent trafficking in women in connection with the Euro 2008 Championship in Austria and Switzerland.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, as many speakers have said - and as I also mentioned - similar initiatives and proposals were tabled and actions were adopted by Parliament and the Commission before the 2006 World Cup organised in Germany.
Mrs Breyer also mentioned victim protection which I think is a very important key issue.
On the first EU anti-trafficking day which was on 18 October 2007, GLS issued recommendations on victim identification and referral services.
It is time to reiterate the call for the remaining 17 Member States of the European Union who have so far failed to ratify the European Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings to do so without further delay.
in writing. - Could the Commission clarify to Parliament what progress it has made on the 2005 plan to combat and prevent trafficking of humans in Europe?
I am shocked that around 100 000 women are trafficked in Europe annually for prostitution.
What I condemn the most is that girls as young as 14 are affected.
in writing. - (HU) The Union is responsible for preventing by all possible means the sexual exploitation and people trafficking that emerge at sporting events organised on its territory.
The 2008 European football championship is a sporting event that brings together a significant number of people, during which there is a temporary rise in demand for sexual services.
It is therefore of fundamental importance that we protect ourselves using temporary campaigns such as those initiated by Mrs Z치borsk치 during the 2006 football World Cup, which also deserve to be continued this time.
In this latter area, some NGOs and international organisations can demonstrate some results, but a greater role also needs to be assumed by the European Commission and the Member States.
However, the main breeding ground for people trafficking and sexual exploitation is the poverty that reduces human life into an everyday struggle for survival, in which the danger of illegal activities grows significantly in the absence of financial and educational opportunities.
