The final draft agenda, as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday, 7 March under Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
Mr President, for the sake of clarifying the proceedings, let me say that our group is very committed on the issue of Chechnya, and if, today, we support the motion to remove the topic from the agenda for this week's part-session, that does not mean that we are not going to continue to be committed on the issue.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for calling me two weeks ago, on the third day of my hunger strike for Chechnya.
Moreover, I do not feel that this decision to hold a topical and urgent debate now means that we will have another opportunity to discuss the matter in a month or so.
So we said that, in order to have a large majority in this House and to remain committed to the topic, we favour removing it for this week, but finding in the immediate future an appropriate procedure in order that we may get to grips with this topic in a way it very much deserves, with the Council and the Commission present if necessary.
Rule 17 of our Rules of Procedure provides that 'when a Member changes political groups he shall retain, for the remainder of his two and a half year term of office, any seat he holds in the Bureau or the College of Quaestors'.
And anybody who imagines that I have been putting forward socialist principles in the Socialist Group for the last two or three years has clearly not listened closely to the nuances of my position.
Mr Posselt, we can view the availability of Prime Minister Aznar after Barcelona as a problem or we can view it as a political opportunity.
Therefore we agreed that we would hold a special session on 20 March.
The Idaho legislature - and I quote: - "stands with the Basques in opposing all violence in the Basque Country and calling for the immediate convocation of a process [between the governments of Spain and France] to bring about lasting peace (...) this memorial expresses Idaho's support of the right of the Basques to self-determination." Mr President, I am sorry to draw your attention back to more prosaic matters, but politics can also be affected by matters of organisation.
Mr President, the College of Quaestors seeks to be neutral in terms of expressing political opinions and I can assure you that it will continue to be so.
I would therefore ask you to address the appropriate representations, pressure and initiatives to the Nigerian government and the President of Nigeria in order to prevent this murder and safeguard the fundamental rights of Nigerian women.
I urge the President and the European Parliament to seize this opportunity, which demands our attention.
The next item is the Commission statement on world governance, following the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre and the World Economic Forum in New York.
Mr President, thank you very much for inviting the Commission to present its views on the events in Porto Alegre and New York.
As you know, the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey will take place very soon, the Johannesburg World Summit on Sustainable Development will take place in September and we must define our position on both issues.
Much has been written about the apparent antagonism between the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre and the World Economic Forum in New York.
But the fact is that the Social Forum was a significant meeting, an important event which political leaders must count on clearly from now on.
To achieve a balance between economic and social process on a global level, and the preservation of our planet's resources, is a great responsibility and a difficult task which no person or country can manage alone.
The report recognises that many countries have achieved an increase in their per capita income and an improvement in the standards of living which would not have been achieved with a strategy of less integration.
The report examines various existing proposals on international taxes.
In relation to the general use of these taxes as a potential source of development funding or public funds, we reach the conclusion that, while some of them would appear attractive in terms of short- and medium-term needs, there are not many alternatives to funding coming from national budgetary resources.
However, if we analyse it as an instrument for increasing the resources available for development funding, the Tobin tax may appear more attractive.
Another important aspect of the report is the statement that for many developing countries, technical commercial assistance and the development of capacities are important in terms of their profiting from the growth opportunities resulting from trade.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is well placed to play a leading role in strengthening sustainable global development.
On the basis of these achievements and in view of the forthcoming World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, the Commission has directed the communication towards partnership for sustainable development.
Its purpose is to point out the strategic components which will serve as a basis for a global deal in Johannesburg, with a view to ensuring that all partners, from both the north and the south, work together in favour of sustainable development.
The communication highlights several key priorities and presents concrete proposals for action in the economic, social and environmental fields.
The Commission and the Member States have committed themselves to negotiating in a constructive spirit, within the framework of the WTO, in order to continue with the process of establishing a just and free-market commercial system, in accordance with the conclusions of the Doha Ministerial Conference.
Our global objective is to increase the world's standard of living by means of the liberalisation and development of trade.
The Community actively promotes the participation of developing countries and, in particular, the least-developed countries, in the international commercial system.
Therefore, with a view to the success of the Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey, the Commission has recommended that the Council increase the volume of Official Development Aid and we suggest that by 2006 all countries whose percentage of aid in relation to GNP is less than the European Union average of 0.33%, should have reached that level.
However, real progress can only be made if the main partners commit themselves to playing a pivotal role and in this respect I am convinced that we, in the European Union, can and must play that fundamental role.
The neo-liberal model has not provided any answers in these areas, nor has it made the world a safer, or more sustainable, place.
Porto Alegre and the World Forum in New York were both venues where at least the sense of urgency and the necessity to act in a more socially responsible way were on the agenda.
Porto Alegre appears to be more original, more up-to-the-minute and more creative, and also involves civil society.
This is our contribution to world peace, and this is how we want to translate the lessons of Porto Alegre and New York in this world into a new role for Europe.
Six months on from the tragic events of 11 September, now must be the time to reassert the need for effective global governance.
Globalism has led to a world of interconnected communities.
Of 6 billion human beings, half are living on less than EUR 2 per day and 800 million are going to sleep hungry every night.
It involves the self-confidence to engage with the world economic forum, the world social forum and others and the self-confidence to say to our friends in the United States that their legitimate sense of vulnerability after 11 September should not lead them in a unilateralist direction - whether in matters relating to military or economic security, the environment or fighting crime.
Mr President, the title of the World Economic Forum in Davos/New York was 'Leadership in difficult times', and that of the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre was 'Another world is possible'.
The 51 000 people who took part in the Porto Alegre forum want to do more than just protest and are drawing up proposals in an attempt to influence decisions.
The second is the age-old, pitiful question of development aid.
Mr President, I welcome this debate because I believe that Porto Alegre requires a firm response from the European Union.
Clearly, a consensus reached by the Fifteen to this effect at the forthcoming Barcelona Summit would constitute the most negative signal that the European Union could give to those I call 'the people of Porto Alegre'.
We can obviously disregard them and prefer to believe, like the President of Sun Micro Systems at the World Economic Forum in New York, that globalisation is a good thing and that nothing needs to be changed.
We are all familiar with the episode in history where Louis XVI, King of France, wrote 'nothing to report' in his personal diary on the page dated 14 July 1789.
Porto Alegre is also focusing the European Union's attention on its responsibilities, in the face of the heightened and dangerous unilateralism of America under President George W.
In a globalised world, the more powerful one is, the more responsibilities one has towards others and towards the planet.
For instance, on 8 February 2002 in Casares, the Fifteen had only just declared their clear position on the situation in the Middle East, when its major allies in Washington pathetically changed their stance a mere two weeks later.
This year, at last, Porto Alegre firmly expressed a third demand which, despite the fact that its primary target is a military superpower, also concerns the European Union and its Member States.
We do not always know how war begins to become a part of everyday life, but we all know what it can lead to.
This extremely serious strategic about-turn goes hand-in-hand with the already exaggerated increase of the US military budget, an increase equivalent to the total amount of official development assistance of all the OECD countries.
Mr President, Europe must respond, not by attempting to imitate the model, but by working openly with its fellow citizens on bringing to life the now emblematic slogan of Porto Alegre: 'another world is possible'.
The initiatives of the Porto Alegre protesters do not, indeed, take the same approach as certain - nonetheless useful - initiatives being pursued by the Commission: rather, they are essentially opposed to a vision of life which does not take account of the fact that these two models - both relics from the nineteenth century - have become obsolete and failed and that our Europe, our world, must now search for a third way which does take certain factors into account.
Mr President, Commissioner, for several hundred million people, the world is still a very unpleasant place to be, full of woe, hunger and unspeakable suffering.
In 2000, Sub-Saharan Africa received EUR 14 billion of aid from those same countries whose customs duties cost those countries, those communities and those people EUR 20 billion of trade opportunities.
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that Europe must find solutions to these issues, not shift the debate away from them.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Fidel Castro said that opposing globalisation is akin to questioning the force of gravity - both are futile.
The remainder goes to a few large countries, such as China, India, Brazil and sometimes a few others.
The majority of the 190 countries of the world are not party to either world trade or international investments.
The multinationals are, in fact, not interested in the great majority of developing countries and are particularly disinterested in the least developed countries.
Such endogenous development sometimes demands protection for emerging industries or services.
The opening up of markets of developing countries and their integration into a truly global economy must be carried out in a strictly ordered manner.
If we do not find a solution for this persistent problem, we will never achieve sustainable development.
Mr President, Commissioner, the situation highlighted by the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre, in a country as extraordinary as Brazil, has contributed to undermining a determinist concept of globalisation - the ultraliberal capitalist concept - in which the will of individuals and of peoples, as expressed by the political, social and democratic institutions, is submitted and subordinated to a supposed rationality which, in practice, tends to widen the gulf between the rich and the poor and between opulence and poverty.
It is we Europeans who should be concerned about this new reality, and we cannot play down the social demonstrations that express this concern, which, disgracefully, Mr Aznar has just done with regard to the demonstration that is due to take place this week in Barcelona.
We must put forward a concept of global relations that inspires the forthcoming constitution of the European Union.
Mr President, the second world forum at Porto Alegre revealed the peaceful nature, first and foremost, of this movement, and its political nature.
I would remind many of the Members that, in the 1970s, the feminist movement used to be described as a social jamboree whereas it was actually highly political in nature.
Secondly, I feel that there is cause for concern in the fact that, after the initial reactions to 11 September, American politicians seem to be light-years away from that heightened state of general awareness that had appeared to make them more open to the world in respect of a number of issues such as the environment, Kyoto, food safety, trade, arms issues and also the form of action to be taken to fight terrorism, which has proved to be chiefly military.
We cannot continue to be so racist in our treatment of these countries.
Commissioner, in the same vein as my fellow Members, I would like to draw some comparisons between New York and Porto Alegre.
Mr President, I think that, at Porto Alegre, we witnessed the emergence of a global civil society that had already begun to express its views in Seattle and on other occasions.
I do not believe, however, that we can describe the majority in this movement as anti-globalisation.
Unfortunately, as you have said, many industrialised countries, including some Members of the European Union, will arrive in Monterey empty-handed - full of promises to finally respect their commitments - but without any new instruments.
I think that we should encourage the idea of global cohesion funds, as we do within the Union when we welcome countries lagging behind in their development.
There must also be the vision of 'living together', of solidarity between rich regions and poorer regions, and of access for everyone to a number of fundamental rights.
Reference was made repeatedly to both New York and Porto Alegre.
When the Commission analysed these issues - which is the reason why I have jointly presented its three reports - it reached the conclusion that the concept of globalisation must include, as a minimum, the elements which relate to the existence of an international financial system which works efficiently, development aid systems and the elements relating to the environment and sustainable development.
In any event, other third countries do not accept this proposal.
We are forgetting an issue which is fundamental to the whole process of future development: capital investment.
Direct investments are playing a fundamental role in the whole process of development, and elements such as governance play a key and fundamental role in it, as do - as some of you have said - all the elements relating to better transfers of technology and any other element which allows for more appropriate development in these countries.
At the moment, the Union's contribution has been greater than EUR 1 000 million and therefore the initial objective is heading in the right direction.
In our report on globalisation we consider what are the possible systems for finding more resources with a view to dealing with the development processes.
The Commission believes that, on the aspects relating to globalisation, support for development and the environment, we must move ahead together and at the same time, without forgetting one fundamental approach: the one stemming from the Doha commitments.
Trade plays a fundamental role, as does the transfer of investments, in development aid, and it must be carried out in a more equitable way in the future.
For the negotiation stemming from Doha it is not only essential to defend our points of view as the European Union, but the developing countries must also defend theirs.
The debate is closed.
With a view to enhancing knowledge and understanding of what the EU really stands for and what it does, the EU must therefore develop a new information and communication strategy for its citizens.
The Commission and Parliament have combined in setting up a service called 'Europe Direct', through which people can very quickly obtain answers via the Internet or over the telephone about where they should apply in order to obtain the information they require.
I have many people to thank for assisting in the preparation of this report: officials of the Commission, Parliament and the Council, many experts and a large number of NGOs but, first and foremost of course, my colleagues in the Interinstitutional Group on Information and in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.
May I thank him for his support and may I also thank the LIBE Committee for its support for my opinion which it voted upon and adopted unanimously.
It is a sad reflection for me that I did not gain that same support from my own Group within the Culture Committee, for various reasons which I hope will become obvious at some point in the debate.
Another key aspect of information policy of the EU institutions is access to documents, and as I repeatedly noted in connection with the adoption of Regulation No 1049/2001 on public access to documents of the institutions, documents - and I stress this - cannot be separated from the information contained in them.
It is therefore sad that we fail to grasp the political opportunity to have the interinstitutional group on information which is responsible for cooperation on information activities working and taking on board the activities in Article 15 of Regulation 1049/2001.
Mr Andreasen is absolutely right to say that the EU must concentrate on factual information.
Diverse and balanced information must be free of propaganda; but the people of all countries are crying out for information and explanation of what the EU is doing.
That has to be within proper cost constraints but again, as has already been said, at present we are spending just 25 cents per annum - for English ears, that is 15 pence per citizen per year.
This report supplements, strengthens and, in a positive sense, counterbalances the communications which we have received from the Commission since Commissioner Vitorino took up this post.
The report that you have just discussed directly mirrors the work that the Commission is doing to urge all the institutions to draw up a global information policy of the European Union.
I would like, in response to the Andreasen report and to the debate that has just taken place, to present the broad objectives of our strategy, and then to elaborate on some aspects of its implementation.
In addition to the framework for interinstitutional co-operation set out in the communication of 27 June 2001, the Commission is now considering what should be appropriate objectives for a genuine information and communication policy of the European Union.
It seems to me that our aim must be to develop a genuine communication policy that will enable us to enter into dialogue with the general public in the Member States.
I also think that a genuine global information and communication policy of the European Union should also attempt to increase citizens' involvement in European debates.
These questions encourage us to be aware of the European Union's need to have better control of its own image, which involves drawing up its own set of messages.
I hope that other bodies will also participate in the work of the IGI, as observers.
As you can see, it is useful and necessary to think about the strategy itself, but this must go hand in hand with improving the organisation of our resources, and this is why the Commission is currently in the process of assessing the real ability of the tools that we have available.
The rapporteur stresses the need to establish common European Union Houses in the candidate countries as well as in all the Member States.
My final point is that you are right to stress the need to develop a more global and more systematic audio-visual policy as a prime source of information and communication for the European Union.
With regard to the budget, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are currently bringing an end to the campaign on the euro, which will free up some financial resources.
I hope to be able to count on the support of the European Parliament in establishing the budgetary priorities that are required to fulfil the new tasks of the information and communication policy of the European Union.
This shared political will will enable us to develop a coherent and global information and communication strategy of the European Union that will benefit our citizens.
In particular, some important elements have been introduced and a number should be mentioned.
It is also important to explain to the House that this Regulation is in any event contained within the parameters of the existing European Community accounting code and that the standards themselves can only be adopted by the International Accounting Standards Committee after a rigorous and transparent process agreed by the IASC in its own properly adopted and legally enforceable constitution.
Mr President, if, in the plenary sitting, our fellow MEPs follow our vote in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and adopt this proposal practically unanimously, and if all others stand by their agreements, I believe that we can conclude this proposal at first reading, which is nothing short of a small miracle.
The proposal was totally unacceptable on this score.
Time constraints prevent me from elaborating upon other improvements, but I concur with what the rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has said in this connection.
However, I am of the view that it is certainly not a pointless exercise, immediately following the Council's approval, to devote attention, in an organised manner, to the implications of the various options which the Member States can take by applying Article 5 and thus making an attempt to achieve coordination.
I also wish the Commissioner the best of luck on his forthcoming trip to America and his talks with the Securities and Exchange Commission on how the Americans use IASs.
I think that what is necessary here - and this is one of the lessons that, for example, the Bush administration in America has learned - is further legislation to ensure that consultants do not audit and that auditors cannot be consultants to the same company.
In principle, therefore, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of all the amendments.
We have certain difficulties in relation to some amendments and we will still have to examine whether they are compatible with our position and, above all, we await the Commission's opinion with regard to certain aspects of them.
These international accounting standards seem to hold out such a promise, both within and beyond the European Union.
This report is an important step in achieving that and I can assure the rapporteur that he will have the full support of the ELDR Group in this House.
If we succeed in this it will give a strong political signal that the European Union is not only serious about achieving an integrated capital market by the year 2005, as requested by the European Council in Lisbon two years ago, but also ready to lead on the development of international accounting standards.
Long before Enron started to make headlines in the press, Europe made the choice of international accounting standards of high quality with the potential to become truly global standards.
That is the case and will remain so.
The Commission can accept all the amendments adopted unanimously by the Legal Affairs Committee, notwithstanding the repeal of Amendment No 6, which amounts more or less to the repetition of a recital.
In conclusion, Mr President, a strong vote in favour of this proposal would constitute a major contribution to international and European harmonisation in the accounting field by promoting a single set of accounting standards, namely the IAS.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at noon.
In recent years - one might almost say decades, when I think back to when the Commission presented the first Green Paper on the further development of postal services - we have in fact managed, step by step, to open up the European Union's markets in postal services.
I think that the Council has found a fair compromise between the Commission proposal and the outcome of First Reading in Parliament.
The Commission had proposed 50 grammes, Parliament 150 grammes, and the Council decided in favour of the mean value, that is, 100 grammes.
When the debate started and during the first reading, we all saw huge problems in store, with major differences between the various political persuasions in the House.
The vote, in committee at least a few days ago, demonstrated that a large majority in the European Parliament agreed with the positions put forward just now by the rapporteur.
What we were looking to do was to reconcile two needs: first, the need to safeguard the universal service, a universal service in island regions, in mountain regions and in remote regions of the European Union and, secondly, the need for a free, competitive market, the need to guarantee a single market in this sector by widening consumer choice.
So we have a good result, both for those worried about losing the universal service and for those who wanted to advance the single market and widen consumer choices.
As the rapporteur said, they came up with a compromise of 100 and then 50 grammes.
Therefore, I would like to make those people who wish to stick to the 150 gramme level aware of what their actions will lead to should they pursue that particular policy.
All our gains, including codecision on future moves will be lost and the Commission will then move in under Article 80 - as I am sure they are keen to do - and give us full liberalisation sooner rather than later.
If ever there was a classic case of cutting off your nose to spite your face, it is that of those people advocating 150 grammes.
But Europe has showed you how to maintain a viable post office offering a universal service of excellent quality at an affordable price.
There may still be other people out there who believe that the postal services should remain a national government monopoly.
The common position is somewhere in between.
This is very important.
I urge my fellow Members? (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, after the postal services market was opened up to competition - a process that began in 1997 - the Commission put forward new proposals in 2000 with the aim of achieving deregulation by 2003 and with a view to bringing about full liberalisation by 2009.
At first reading, a large majority of the European Parliament refused to fully support the Commission.
The position of the Council of Ministers - regardless of what a number of Members are saying - differs considerably from the compromise reached by a majority in the European Parliament.
It is therefore hard for me to understand why what we saw in a negative light yesterday is now something we regard positively.
Important issues such as conditions of access to networks of new operators or conditions for the financing of universal service remain ill defined.
In all European countries, the public postal service is experiencing the same effects as a result of liberalisation.
In France, the effects of liberalisation will also be felt, the quality of service is falling and workers who have left are not being replaced.
As two final points, I must remind those who claim and who fear that, if the common position is rejected, the Commission will use Article 86, which bizarrely enables civil servants to pass legislation directly.
Even the Court of Justice could find fault with them.
Mr President, the common position reached by the Council on 15 October 2001 on the opening to competition of Community postal services, is a good compromise, so we are told by the rapporteur and the governments.
The second ambiguity is we are told that the new directive will enable the market to be opened in a gradual and controlled fashion.
In these circumstances, there is a risk that the prospective impact study, which is due to start in 2006, will conclude that the essential decisions have already been taken, that they are already behind us and, once again, we will have taken an unsteady step forward without knowing exactly when and how we have passed the major milestones.
This will almost be a further example of the Monnet method, but on a smaller scale.
Mr President, as well as congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work now and, particularly, at first reading, we must congratulate the European institutions in general, who have succeeded in doing a good job on this issue.
As we all remember, we started off from positions very far apart, opposing positions in some cases, and we - Parliament, Council and Commission - succeeded in reaching a compromise which we feel will be genuinely capable of catering for even the most radical demands, which some of the Members have upheld this evening, while satisfying a further, absolutely imperative demand which we endorse and support, namely the need to liberalise the public services in the interests of the citizens and consumers, and this is not a whim or part of a general liberalisation trend.
Clearly, there are some services which require particular attention and this is one of them.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the first paragraph of the preamble to the common position under debate reiterates that the main objective of the Community policy on postal services is to combine the gradual, controlled liberalisation of the market in postal services with a guaranteed universal service.
To ensure we do not contradict ourselves, we must bear in mind that Directive 96/67, which is currently being amended, guarantees European citizens and companies a quality universal postal service without discrimination, at both national and European level.
Heralded as 'a stage further in the opening of postal services to competition', the Council wants the European Parliament to approve a directive which constitutes another step towards doing away with the public postal service.
Mr President, Commissioner, the postal issue is a protracted and sensitive one.
The postal system is a service of general interest as well as an economic activity.
I am, however, firmly against all types of full liberalisation, as the services of general economic interest play a role in the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the European Union.
The European Charter of Fundamental Rights acknowledges the principle of access to the service of general economic interest as laid down in national legislation and practices.
The importance of access to postal services is not the same in a country with 17 000 post offices and in a country that has barely one thousand.
This liberalisation must, however, be gradual and controlled in order to preserve adaptability, economic viability and guaranteed access to the universal postal service throughout the Union's territory.
I think that the compromise before us brings together both these aims and that is why I will vote in favour of it tomorrow.
Mr President, Commissioner, having reached the common position, we must welcome the fact that Parliament's first democratic expression has led to a situation where the Commission and the Council are upholding some of its proposals, such as the special services, the gradual opening up of the market with a review by Parliament in 2009, and even the keeping of direct mail within the public service sector.
The first thing is the financing of universal service.
The infringement procedures instigated against the Italian State and the Belgian postal service appear to disregard not just the precedence taken by special legislation over general legislation but also the base regulation, that this directive makes more explicit, banning the indiscriminate liberalisation of what are known as special or value added services, to which the specific price and weight limits introduced in the directive apply without variation.
It would also appear that the Commission is rather behind schedule in proposing to regulate access, pursuant to Article 11 of the old directive, and this delay must be made good without upsetting the balances achieved between operators on the basis of mutual commitments so that private individuals can enjoy the benefits without having to bear the burdens.
I thank the rapporteur, Mr Ferber, as I think he has brought the various Parliamentary interests and the Council together, so that this week, I believe, we can manage to get a good majority for a good compromise.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament's position at first reading of the draft directive on the opening of postal services to competition was decisive.
The issue is that by the end of this year, it will be possible to end the monopoly of postal services that has hitherto been allowed to exist, and unless we are able to reach a common position between the Council, Parliament and the Commission, in 2003 the Commission, using a different legal basis, will be able to treat this problem as a case of competition within the internal market, which falls within the competence of the Commission alone.
Not only is the common position reasonable and accepted by the companies responsible for postal services in our countries, but it also makes any new liberalisation dependent on co-decision by the Council and Parliament.
I would like, however, to reaffirm the need to make progress with the social reform that has been initiated and to move forward towards the accomplishment of the internal market for postal services.
In this context, I am happy that the in-depth debates held in the European Parliament and the Council are about to bring appropriate solutions to the key challenges which have been widely discussed.
I am grateful to the institutions of the European Union for together planning a road map for supporting the ongoing modernisation of the postal sector whilst maintaining the asset of the universal postal service.
I should like to thank both the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for their support and their constructive attitudes which have greatly contributed to making all this possible.
The common position reached in Council sets out a clear path for a gradual and controlled implementation of the internal market for postal services.
If I may say so, Mr President, the European Parliament can indeed be proud of its significant impact on the common position.
Fourthly, the European Parliament will be involved before any subsequent decisive step, confirming, if appropriate, the full accomplishment of the internal market in the year 2009, or determining any other step in the light of the results of a dedicated study.
Furthermore, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur have managed to maintain this widely supported compromise.
The Commission also appreciates Parliament's improvements to the accuracy of the common position drafting.
This concerns Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3.
This concerns the remaining proposed amendments to that common position.
Finally, with regard to the proposed legislative resolution "asking the Commission to involve all the relevant actors in the sector as well as the European Parliament and Council as closely as possible in the preparation, implementation and follow-up of the prospective study", I have already covered that point.
I should like to state again my best intention to meet this wish of the European Parliament when the time comes, using the most appropriate means and in full respect of the applicable agreements between the Commission and Parliament on follow-up procedures for European Parliament resolutions.
The expected result, thanks to the contribution of all who have been involved in its preparation, is good for the postal market as a whole and will, I trust, give a lift to the Barcelona Summit which is to take place in a few days time when it reviews progress on our ambition to become the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world by the year 2010.
The debate is closed.
Article 286 of the Treaty of Amsterdam stipulated that this would happen as of 1999.
The adoption during the course of the same year of these two major regulations confirms that, in Europe, the culture of personal data protection and the culture of the transparency of public activities are developing alongside each other rather than conflicting.
I feel that the adoption of this decision will fill a significant gap in the system protecting the European citizens' fundamental right to the protection of personal data, which is now enshrined in Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
Officially, we are assessing the statute of the European data protection Supervisor here, and there are some observations to be made in this respect, which I will do in a moment.
I have to say that it is rather disappointing that the two opinions from the committees have been largely ignored in the Committee of Citizens' Freedoms.
It is important that we say here and now that the mere fact that we strongly approve of the principles of protecting data and that we want to move forward, and also the fact that this needs to be done quickly, does not absolve us from the job of scrutinising this proposal properly.
He has spoken very clearly and I am sure that Commissioner Bolkestein has listened carefully to what he had to say.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights which I helped to prepare states that everyone has the right to the protection of personal data concerning him or her and the Amsterdam Treaty called for the establishment of an independent supervisor by 1 January, 1999.
This deadline is, of course, well past and our main priority, therefore, is to create this post as soon as we possibly can.
Most of the matters relating to the post have already been laid down in Council Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and published in the Official Journal.
Mr President, it is precisely because I am concerned with internal affairs policy that I observe that the European Data Protection Supervisor plays a most important role in the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice.
It is he who creates public trust in the institutions of the European Union.
If the public get the impression that the Data Protection Supervisor is nothing more than a paper tiger, they will not trust the European Union.
Parliament and the Commission do of course disagree about the Bavarian Lager case and about the way in which the Commission interprets the concept of data protection in that instance.
The reason was as follows: (the speaker continued in French) There is a Regulation No 45/2001 relating to the protection of personal data.
All these groups have an important place in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Mr President, the Commission has argued that the right of access to documents and the right to privacy are both legitimate rights and that when they both enter into consideration, a balance has to be struck.
However, the idea of striking a balance between them on a case-by-case basis whenever a name is mentioned misrepresents the nature both of dealing with openness in the public sector and the right to privacy.
The principle of openness means that public bodies should take decisions as openly as possible and is now defined in the public access regulation.
However, there is nothing in Article 286 of the EC Treaty or in the Data Protection Directive to suggest that data protection rules should be applied as a general principle of confidentiality in public administrations so as to require a public balancing exercise whenever a document mentions a name.
If there is no effective, independent supervision of the ways in which legislation is formulated and applied, people are in danger of having their human rights infringed in terms of Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights - the right to respect for private and family life, as well as to the protection of personal data.
This proposal is intended to respond, as has already been said, to two fundamental issues: the performance of the duties of this European data protection supervisor, which have already been laid down in Council Regulation (EC) No 45/2001; in other words, the issue of the pay of the European supervisor and deputy supervisor and the issue of where they are to be based.
The duties of this supervisor will be limited to the first pillar, but Europol and Schengen - for which data protection instruments are also planned, with the creation in 2000 of a joint secretariat - are currently excluded from the post's scope.
I sincerely hope that in the near future, the current structure and organisation of this European Data Protection Supervisor can be adapted to also include, under the responsibility of a single European authority, supervisory authorities within the European organs created on the basis of Titles V and VI of the EU Treaty, in order to prevent the unnecessary duplication of functions and resources.
Before going any further may I stress that the regulation we are now debating was adopted by this Parliament in codecision in a single reading, so it is a little late for some Members of this Parliament to complain about the contents of this regulation, for example where it stipulates that there should be an assistant regulator in this area.
It is a little late to start complaining about that, but today we are dealing with other issues and, therefore, I should like to continue my contribution to this debate by saying that it concerns the place of data protection in relation to the right of citizens to transparent administration.
Some Members who have spoken tonight have expressed concern that this initiative might impede, or even reverse, the significant progress made towards achieving the greatest possible transparency in Community administration.
I must assure these Members that the principle of transparency, and in particular the principle of public access to documents as enshrined in the Amsterdam Treaty, in Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, is applicable to the Community institutions and bodies and in particular to the European Data Protection Supervisor.
On the other hand neither of these two principles - data protection on the one hand and public access to documents on the other - has absolute force or takes precedence over the other.
The Human Rights Convention as interpreted in the case law of the Strasbourg courts and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union require that a balance should be struck in specific cases in order to reconcile the various interests at issue.
Amendment No 1 would introduce an unacceptable ambiguity in this respect.
The Ombudsman is a good Community-level reference, given his role in monitoring administrative procedures.
The draft decision takes account of the two references.
Amendments Nos 10, 11, 13 and 14 are not sufficiently precise to determine the level of remuneration of the President and his deputy.
Amendments Nos 12 and 16 contain excellent ideas but the present decision's legal base of Article 43, Regulation 45/2001, is not sufficiently large to carry them.
Amendments Nos 9 and 15 refer to parts only of the evidence and need redrafting with a view to achieving more balance.
With that in mind the Commission intends to be very flexible with regard to the amendments accepted in the Civil Liberties Commission in the tripartite dialogue with a view to establishing a final text of the decision by agreement between the three institutions.
It also hopes that the Council, which has already expressed its agreement with the Commission proposal, may be able to act likewise.
I feel I should raise a point of order in relation to what the Commissioner has just said.
He referred to a number of texts on the definition of privacy and he referred to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees the protection of privacy and family life.
As the rapporteur on the Regulation on Access to Documents, I feel it only right to point out that in the judgment of 16 February 2000, the European Court of Human Rights confirmed its earlier case law, that it is data relating to the private life of an individual that falls within the scope of Article 8.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon.
The development of the co-decision procedure makes it necessary not only for Parliament but also for the Council to play a greater role in preparing the programme, even though it is of course, as stated in the Treaty, the Commission which has the right of initiative.
It is therefore important that the Council and the two countries holding the presidency during the year should play their part in planning the annual programme so that it can be synchronised better.
It is obvious that she has been a parliamentarian herself and understands Parliament's problems and concerns.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Malmström, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, not only for having familiarised herself with these difficult processes but also for having conducted the negotiations on the subject with the Commission with the rigour, prudence, but also the friendliness that they call for.
Parliament and the Commission have long recognised that legislative planning is a matter of common concern.
The Commission has the right of initiative.
We have the right to call upon the Commission to make proposals already given to us in the Treaty.
We are a parliament that is master of its own timetable, unlike some national parliaments.
That has long been the case, but the actual procedures by which we have done it have not always been working satisfactorily, and I welcome this updating and rationalisation that has been put forward.
It is an important proposal because it introduces a more formal structure into the process of Parliament's scrutiny of the Commission's legislative programme, which is, after all, a very important component of one of our most important functions - that is to say, scrutinising and holding the Commission to account.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you warmly for offering me the opportunity to participate in this debate on the reform of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure and specifically the proposed revision of Rule 57, which takes up the agreement we have reached between the Commission and Parliament in relation to the methods for presenting our legislative and working programmes.
The contacts we have maintained throughout these months have allowed us to reach a solution for structuring a constructive dialogue on this issue, which is important.
The text which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes including in an annex to European Parliament's Rules of Procedure respects the institutional role of the Commission and Parliament and honours the mutual commitments we have made over the last two and a half years.
The College of Commissioners has held in-depth debates on this matter and has agreed that the right of initiative laid down in the Treaties must be retained in its current form, with the collegial responsibility of the Commission.
I hope that, by means of this dialogue, we will discuss our political priorities for 2003, in order to define concrete courses of action for the enlarged Europe.
The discussions have been long but the final result has made it worthwhile.
In any event, we will soon find out, because within a couple of months a first round of participations by all the Commissioners will begin - by means of the specialised committees - in relation to our future projects for next year.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon.
I declare closed the 2001-2002 session of the European Parliament. (The sitting was closed at 9.15 p.m.)
