It would not have been a very happy day to hold the elections to the European Parliament. (DE) Mr President, this was the last calendar vote in this legislative term and we have averted five attempts to challenge Strasbourg as the seat of Parliament, and as the sole seat of Parliament, through irrational amendments.
This would bring us closer to our citizens and give us more time for our real work.
This is despite agreeing very much with the ban on the export of mercury from Europe. (SL) I was delighted to see this report, because it has all the necessary elements for a speedy resolution of this issue.
The people I represent want to have trade, want to have cooperation in Europe but they do not want political union and they do not want a European legal system.
There was a major debate in committee and we reached a very intelligent, high-quality compromise through the intervention of Monica Frassoni.
Although all Member States have adopted the same provisions, the latter are being implemented in many different ways.
This encourages undesirable behaviour whereby irresponsible entrepreneurs relocate their economic activity to countries where criminal sanctions for offences against the environment are less severe.
This affects the new Member States of the Union in particular.
I agree with the rapporteur's stance that the legal framework defined in the proposal for a directive represents an important contribution to effective protection of the environment, and can guarantee uniform and responsible implementation of environmental protection law within the Community.
Appropriately trained officials are a sine qua non for effective implementation of the law and actual reduction of offences against the environment.
The proposal to specify the obligations of Member States in this regard clearly is therefore entirely relevant.
However, this decision should not become a standard in the area of telecommunications.
I am pleased that we have an opportunity for these companies to try again to create a global mobile satellite service market, which I think would be of great benefit, particularly to people in developing countries where terrestrial networks have no reach.
Thank you for your understanding. (CS) I did not vote for the report by my colleague Mr Florenz either.
After all, humankind has always been living in a time of continuous climatic change. (SK) I voted for the interim report by the rapporteur, Karl-Heinz Florenz, in which the scientific knowledge of climate change plays an important role.
I trust that the New Water Paradigm will become a new useful idea over the next few decades, and that it will become humankind's manifesto for the future of civilisation. (PL) Mr President, we have today adopted an exceptionally important report on combating climate change.
If we really want to protect our planet, our own Earth, then all of us, all the countries and societies in the entire world have to slow down or halt further increases in the level of CO2 emissions and emissions of other greenhouse gases.
In every case, we move on from them.
In the debate earlier today, Mr Booth reminded us of the Oregon Declaration, which 30 000 relevant scientists have signed, challenging the whole basis of climate alarmism.
It is the economic damage which will crucify us, and it will crucify specifically Europe because developing countries like China and India have far too much common sense to be taken in by it. (BG) The delegation of the Ataka Party voted against the so-called Report on Turkey's Progress because we do not see what this progress might involve.
The report focuses on what are, in my view, a number of side issues, whereas the main point about all this is still, of course, that Turkey is in no way a European country, will never in any way be a European country and consequently there can be no question of a non-European country acceding to the European Union.
On the contrary: Turkey is banning a political party, has a new Article 301 used to prosecute writers and intellectuals for insulting Turkishness, and politically or religiously motivated hostility and violence are also on the increase.
That said, I accept that the report is well-balanced and honest. (PL) Mr President, we have adopted an important report.
As an Islamic country that is also a Member State of the Union, it will be able to play an important role in developing relations between the West and the Islamic world. (DE) Mr President, I voted in favour of Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's report although it contains many compromise phrases.
This accession is not going to happen, so it would be more honest and better for both sides if we could get together as soon as possible and agree to pursue another route, a route towards a partnership of equals, without common institutions but with common interests and a practical and agreed programme of cooperation. (DE) Mr President, although Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's report contains many criticisms of Turkey, I voted against it because, in my view, full membership for Turkey cannot be the aim of the accession negotiations.
Turkey is not part of Europe nor does it perform a bridging function to the Islamic countries.
The second point I would like to note refers to the safeguards demanded in the report in relation to neighbourhood policy.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - I supported all the amendments to the calendar that reduced our time in Strasbourg and increased it in Brussels.
The current situation is bizarre, trekking as we do backwards and forwards between Brussels and Strasbourg at vast cost in time and money.
I voted against making an exception for the Monday of Orthodox Easter when we make no provision for not meeting on 14 July.
The European Parliament should have a single seat and a single place of work.
in writing. - I am generally in favour of what is proposed for the 2009 calendar of part-sessions.
It has also been approved that industry sectors that gain mercury from the cleaning of natural gas or as a by-product from non-ferrous mining and smelting operations must provide relevant data to the Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States concerned.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for this report which aims to bring the ban on exports of mercury forward to 15 March 2011, three months before the date proposed by the Council.
Mercury can be produced by waste recycling (fluorescent tubes or batteries, for instance), cleaning of natural gas or industrial processing of non-ferrous metals.
It is likewise extremely important that compounds used for research and development, in medicines or in analytic processes not be included in the ban, as stated in the report.
Bringing forward the date of the export ban to 2010 allows for greater coherence with the EU's overall mercury strategy.
The European Commission rightly proposes banning the use of mercury and creating suitable infrastructures to store it, in view of its high toxicity and the risks to public health.
The Commission nonetheless insists on promoting fluorescent bulbs to save energy, knowing that they contain at least 5 mg mercury each, a particularly dangerous amount, given the number of bulbs in every home or workplace.
in writing. - (PL) Mercury is one of the most powerful environmental poisons.
The European Union should do all it can to ensure mercury is safely stored.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by my esteemed German colleague, Hartmut Nassauer, drawn up at first reading of the codecision procedure on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
in writing. - Given the trans-boundary nature of environmental crime, we believe that an established set of minimum standards and sanctions concerning environmental crime at international level would be a useful instrument in maintaining a comprehensive and effective environmental protection strategy.
It is also important that the Commission and the Council have accepted these proposed amendments.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report as it will allow criminal sanctions for serious environmental offences.
Member States must take a strong stance on environmental protection and ensure strict application of this directive.
An impressive power play by the Court of Justice of the European Communities in its judgment of 13 September 2005 on the case known as 'protection of the environment' granted it the right to interfere in the criminal law of Member States in the event of infringements of environmental legislation.
Now, in an all-new phase, the idea is to draw up a harmonised set of infringements to be sanctioned by criminal law in all the Member States and to harmonise the criminal penalties in cases of environmental infringements.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Nassauer report on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
Whilst substantive criminal law is and should remain a matter for Member States, it is equally clear that environmental protection is something which can best be coordinated at the EU level.
The proposed directive opens the way to imposing unified EU criminal law on the Member States.
The primacy of Community law is thus established over national legislation and even national constitutional provisions.
in writing. ? (PL) Caring for the environment is a duty incumbent on us all.
In 1998 the European Council took the decision to protect the environment through criminal law.
Adoption of the new directive means that the set of offences subject to criminal sanctions in all countries is now clearly defined.
Only if all the Member States act in solidarity will it be possible to achieve the aims set.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of the environment through criminal law because the introduction of new legal provisions and the establishment of a common list of offences against the environment for the entire Community will ensure more effective implementation of Community legislation.
The same provisions are in place in all Member States of the Union, but the way they are implemented varies considerably.
This encourages undesirable behaviour whereby irresponsible entrepreneurs relocate their economic activity to countries where criminal sanctions for offences are less severe.
This affects the new Member States in particular.
I agree with the rapporteur's stance that the legal framework defined in the proposal for a directive represents an important contribution to effective protection of the environment, and can guarantee uniform and responsible implementation of environmental protection law within the European Union.
The proposal to specify the obligations of Member States in this regard clearly is therefore entirely relevant.
The adoption of a set of offences against the environment and the associated penalties will constitute a very helpful instrument for the common implementation of environmental protection legislation within the European Union.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by my Hungarian colleague, Gábor Harangozó, that amends, at first reading of the codecision procedure, the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on farm structure surveys and the survey on agricultural production methods.
I support the idea of allowing derogations for Member States that wish to implement the farm structure survey in 2009 rather than 2010 due to the decennial population census in 2011.
However, the application of these principles cannot be allowed to impose yet another bureaucratic burden on farmers, particularly small and medium-sized farmers whose resources are limited or non-existent.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by my Romanian colleague, Silvia-Adriana Ţicău, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing common rules concerning the conditions to be complied with to pursue the occupation of road transport operator.
Experience has demonstrated that these measures are wrongly or unequally applied since they are ambiguous or incomplete, or can no longer be applied due to changes in the sector.
in writing. - (PT) Aside from the criticism of certain aspects included in this proposal for a regulation, its contents should not be assessed without taking into account its 'role' in the increasing liberalisation of international road haulage and passenger transport as promoted by the European Commission and by the European Union institutions with codecision power, namely the European Parliament and the Council.
in writing. - (DE) Harmonisation of the existing rules in this field is important as a means of optimising road transport in Europe.
in writing. - (PT) Mrs Ţicău's report is part of a package of measures that, together with two other reports, aims to regulate road transport activity.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by my esteemed colleague, Mathieu Grosch, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for access to the international road haulage market which aims to merge the texts regulating access to the international road and cabotage transport market, currently governed by previous regulations and directives.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of adoption of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for access to the international road haulage market (recast) - C6-0146/2007 - 2007/0099 (COD)).
in writing. - (DE) I voted for Mathieu Grosch's report on access to the international road haulage market.
in writing. - (PT) This proposal is part of a package of measures within the road transport sector.
This particular proposal aims to improve the coherence of Community legislation in the area of international road haulage by merging two existing Regulations, thus ensuring greater efficiency in the application of rules and clarifying and facilitating the application of the cabotage concept.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by my British colleague, Fiona Hall, who did an excellent job and amended, at first reading of the codecision procedure, the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the selection and authorisation of systems providing mobile satellite services (MSS).
Moreover, the service proposed must be provided in all the Member States for at least 50% of the population and in at least 60% of the aggregate land area of each Member State by the time stipulated by the applicant, but no later than seven years from the date of publication of the text.
We therefore had to vote against this report.
In fact, the February 2007 Commission decision did recognise that Member States should retain the right to grant authorisation for the operation of complementary ground components within their territories.
in writing. - (SV) The report on the selection and authorisation of systems providing mobile satellite services is about how we are to provide a common European system of satellite services, an important factor in strengthening the continued competitiveness of Europe in advanced technological research and industry.
in writing. - (FR) The adoption of this decision is a decisive step towards reinforcement of the internal electronic communications market.
The objective is simple: to give everyone high-speed Internet access and to provide mobile multimedia services and public protection services in the event of natural or human disasters.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the own-initiative report by my German colleague, Klaus-Heiner Lehne, on a simplified business environment for companies in the areas of company law, accounting and auditing, in response to the European Commission's communication on the subject.
At the same time, through clear rules which are easy to identify, the creation of a positive, active economic environment will be fostered.
in writing. - Amendment 11d calls for the deletion of Paragraph 26.
For this reason I voted against the amendment and for retention of the paragraph as a statement against protectionism.
I therefore decided to support this report.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues wish to make clear that we strongly oppose Paragraph 23 of this report which supports the establishment of a 'common consolidated corporate tax base (CCCTB)' in the EU.
The Commission should therefore concentrate on encouraging Member States to harmonise classification of requirements concerning reporting in the area of financial information.
It should also press Member States to adopt new technology in order to reduce costs.
Nonetheless, further simplification of the Union's acquis in the area of company law and its effective implementation in Member States would seem essential, if European companies are to compete successfully on the ever more demanding global market.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of this report, but I consider that we should implement a more comprehensive package of actions to ensure the simplification of the European business environment.
Eurostat shows that, in the EU Member States, the period required in order to fulfil the administrative formalities for starting a business vary between one day and several months.
I believe these two elements are essential for achieving the economic growth objective of the Lisbon Strategy and, consequently, they should be promoted more by the European company legislation.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, the European Union is not perceived as an area where the provisions concerning running a business are particularly straightforward, in terms of ease of use.
Every step towards simplifying provisions, as indicated in the Commission communication of 10 July 2007 should therefore be welcomed.
The most important and most desirable effect of simplification should be to encourage small companies to operate on the common European market.
To date, the latter has not been very accessible to new enterprises from Central and Eastern Europe.
This does not, however, require harmonising taxation, as suggested in paragraph 23 of the report by Mr Lehne, the so-called light formula for consolidating the corporate tax base.
in writing. - (NL) The Commission communication raises fundamental questions which are to determine European policy on company and accounting law.
However, there is one problematic point where the Commission proposes the introduction of a 'micro-entities' category.
The Lehne report is in favour of that approach and even suggests raising the thresholds.
Furthermore they are depriving themselves of a useful tool for internal company monitoring which is certainly important for an SME.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, higher education has become more widely accessible and growing numbers of women are gaining university degrees.
I am in favour of the idea of promoting family-friendly measures by providing for the introduction of flexible working times and better childcare services.
I also support the provision of access to social insurance abroad and the introduction of parental leave conditions that would allow men and women freedom of choice.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Britta Thomsen's report on women and science as I consider it essential to facilitate equal access for both genders to scientific careers.
in writing. - (PT) We know that there are more women than men in higher education, yet when it comes to choosing the research career, women are still outnumbered by men.
The countries with the fewest women in business research are Germany (11.8%), Austria (10.4%) and the Netherlands (8.7%), whereas Latvia, Bulgaria and Romania all have over 40%.
in writing. - (SV) Improved access for women to activities in the scientific field, as the rapporteur states, is of crucial significance.
The problem manifests itself differently in the EU's 27 Member States, hence solutions must also vary.
It is not possible to generalise on the situation of women in all 27 Member States.
Junilistan is convinced that the route to equality in practice must be mapped out at national level.
We have therefore chosen to vote against the report.
in writing. ? (PL) Women's participation in the labour market is increasing systematically right across the European Union.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of Britta Thomsen's report on women in science because women remain under-represented in the world of science.
The report outlines important steps towards a balance between men and women in the academic sphere.
The promotion of academic careers for women must play a key role.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the report regarding the situation of women in science, which I consider vital for achieving the Lisbon Strategy objectives of growth and employment.
It is also a most timely report since, if the EU needs 700 000 more researchers to meet its objectives by 2010, this is the right time for the Commission and the Member States to implement the specific measures set out in the report to correct this anomaly.
Equality between men and women and better integration of women in professional careers cannot be conceived in an authoritarian and repressive fashion.
in writing. - (SV) Britta Thomsen's report notes that female researchers are in a minority in the EU.
Paragraph 7 asks that age be taken into account as a criterion of excellence together with family situation, including the number of the researcher's dependents.
in writing. - (PL) Women make a major contribution to the development of science.
Women scientists therefore need to be supported through the development of preferential maternity leave conditions, and through special grants for women who are bringing up children whilst simultaneously pursuing a scientific career.
in writing. - (SK) I would like to thank Mrs Thomsen for her report which points to a certain type of discrimination against women in science and research.
The state too has a responsibility for supporting women participating in scientific work: for supporting them during their studies, helping them to reconcile their family and working lives and to receive just rewards for their work, providing them with direct social benefit payments and helping, in as natural a way as possible, with child care.
in writing. - (PT) The dismantling of ships continues to have a major social and ecological impact, both because of the way in which this is done, which can be harmful to the environment, and because the number of ships under construction has been increasing for years.
The report aims to address problems currently encountered in that sector, particularly the major health and safety concerns for workers in the shipyards of Bangladesh and India.
in writing. - (PT) European concerns about the environment and working conditions in third countries merit our agreement in principle.
The adoption of drastic measures to stop practices that are in truth social or environmental dumping, but which would also lead to the destruction of an economic sector in a third country and would therefore cause even greater misery for an extremely vulnerable part of the population is not in line with what we defend.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the interim report by my German colleague, Karl-Heinz Florenz, on the scientific facts of climate change as considered by Parliament's Temporary Committee.
in writing. - (IT) The last intergovernmental conference on climate change and the various conferences within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) have shown that the greenhouse gases produced by man are the cause of climate change and that the increase in the world's temperature must be halted at 2°C above pre-industrial levels.
in writing. - (DE) Climate change is a serious issue and presents mankind with a formidable challenge.
This is why I voted against the report.
in writing. - (SV) We have today voted for the interim report on the scientific facts of climate change.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the interim report of the Temporary Committee on Climate Change on the scientific facts of climate change (findings and recommendations for decision-making) because I am convinced that the broad scientific consensus on the human origins of climate change urgently requires increased action by the political powers, with particular emphasis on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and a future international climate change agreement.
That is why I voted against this report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Florenz report on climate change and think that it is right that this Parliament takes the issue so seriously.
Efforts to combat climate change require action at all levels, and the EU institutions as well as the nations of Europe must all work together to move towards a low-carbon economy.
in writing. - (DE) When we here in Europe invest in the latest environmentally friendly technology and in renewable energy, at however great an expense, while a country like China has a new coal-fired power station coming on stream every week, our best efforts here can only be a drop in the ocean.
The agreements reached in Kyoto, Bali, etc.
in writing. - (PT) Scientific discussions cannot involve debates about beliefs, and doubts about the accuracy of the majority opinion cannot be interpreted as negativism or as a political choice.
in writing. - (DE) I voted against this report in the final vote because I take the struggle against climate change seriously and cannot subscribe to dogmatic and apocalyptic formulations that would spread alarm among the people of Europe.
Under no circumstances, however, should the negotiations prejudge the final political decision on Turkey's accession to the EU.
in writing. - The Fine Gael delegation of the EPP-ED Group voted in favour of the overall Oomen-Ruijten report on Turkey's progress in 2007.
However, we the undersigned, voted against Amendment 14 relating to paragraph 16 in the report which included the words 'sexual and reproductive rights'.
We voted against this section of the amendment for the reasons set out in our joint declaration to Parliament in the plenary of 13 March 2008.
in writing. - I voted for the Oomen-Ruijten report on Turkey's progress towards membership of the EU in 2007.
I do believe that Turkey should be capable of joining the Union.
in writing. - (FR) The remarks by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten in her report on Turkey's progress with a view to accession show, as though any further proof were required, that Turkey, in terms of its civilisation, its mindset, its traditions - all perfectly respectable, of course - is not a European country.
I fear that the sole objective in retaining the French Constitution's compulsory consultation of the people on any new European accession is to let citizens and citizens alone take responsibility for 45 years of political and diplomatic cowardice not attributable to Turkey itself, but only to their governments.
in writing. - (PT) Despite certain contradictions, it is a fact that Turkey is strategically important for the EU's ambitions, particularly given the current deepening crisis in the capitalist system.
While its final status remains in doubt - full member of the EU or of a future Mediterranean Union - what seems certain is that the EU is trying to find solutions which best serve the interests of the major economic and financial groups in the main countries, in particular Germany.
in writing. - (CS) Although the motion for a European Parliament resolution quotes a number of documents, the fundamental information is missing.
The so-called Copenhagen criteria, laid down in 1993, cannot be found in the opening preambles of the text.
When we sink our teeth into the European Commission's Turkey 2007 progress report, we find out that, although some progress has been made, the legislation adopted in regard to national minorities has not yet been sufficiently implemented.
Although these regulations are formally enshrined in Turkish legislation, we often see a very 'un-European' approach in dealing with individual cases.
Although paragraph 12 of the resolution is not balanced, the GUE/NGL Group will not vote against it.
in writing. - (FR) Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's report illustrates the autistic side of the leaders of Brussels' Europe in their denials of the evidence: Turkey is an Asian country.
With a population of over 100 million by 2020, Turkey will have the EU's largest population and will therefore be the major state in the European institutions.
Thus, having imposed the European constitutional treaty on France which the country rejected in 2005, Mr Sarkozy is making ready to remove Article 88.5 of the Constitution, submitting the accession of new EU states to a referendum.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the report on Turkey's progress towards EU membership in 2007.
Wine is a European cultural asset which is legally manufactured in most Member States of the EU and which can be sold and consumed in all Member States.
A country that restricts the free movement of any legally manufactured good from other Member States cannot be a full member of the EU.
in writing. - Ria Oomen-Ruijten's Turkey 2007 Progress Report is a comprehensive and encouraging analysis of the country's progress towards accession.
in writing. - (SK) I welcome Turkey's 2007 progress report by my colleague, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, which urges the Turkish Government to fulfil its promises to pursue reforms and modernise the country.
I also want to express my long-held view, which is a view of the vast majority of Europeans as well, that the EU should not offer Turkey the prospect of full membership.
I welcome the fact that Turkey has achieved some progress in several areas in 2007.
In spite of that, the dismal human rights situation still persists.
In the context of this report, we should insist more on improving the situation of the national minorities (namely the Kurdish minority) and on introducing complete freedom of speech and religion.
I also support the call for Article 301 of the Penal Code to be abolished and for the Greek Orthodox Halki Seminary to be immediately re-opened.
We also must make demands on Turkey to look back upon its past and accept the fact of the Armenian genocide, as well as the illegality of its military interference in Cyprus.
The European Union must take a firmer stance on Turkey and halt the negotiations until the aforementioned issues have been resolved.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against this report and the resolution proposed in order to state once more my opposition to the principle of Turkey's accession to the EU.
The European Commission, the Member State Governments and the European Parliament are wrong to continue stoking this illusion, which is duping both Turkish citizens and European citizens.
Taking a soft line with the Turkish authorities vis-à-vis their responsibilities is a strategic error that distances them from the progress to be made, not towards accession to the EU, but to allow the Turkish people to reap the benefits of their basic rights and social and economic development in Turkey.
