Progress made in equal opportunities and non-discrimination in the EU (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Lynne, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on progress made in equal opportunities and non-discrimination in the EU (the transposition of Directives 2000/43/EC and 2000/78/EC).
rapporteur. - Mr President, I would like to thank the other groups for their cooperation, particularly some of the shadows.
A new directive must cover discrimination and access to goods and services on all grounds that have not been covered as yet under Article 13 legislation.
I have campaigned for years for Article 13 legislation on grounds of disability and on grounds of age, but I am now convinced that we must not leave anyone behind.
Anti-discrimination and human rights are the basis of the European Union and every EU citizen must be treated equally.
I urge you to vote for my report and more importantly for a comprehensive directive on anti-discrimination so we can give a signal to those in the Commission who do not agree with this, and the Member States, that we are committed as a Parliament at least to ending discrimination once and for all, and end the ridiculous idea that it is alright to discriminate against any one section of our society. (Applause) Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Lynne for her detailed and topical report.
As stated in the Commission's Work Programme for 2008, I intend to table an amendment based on Article 13 of the EC Treaty, which would extend the existing protection against discrimination to areas outside the labour market.
During the seminar of 29 April, held ahead of the launch of the renewed social agenda, we agreed that we needed more in-depth analyses before making a decision on the best course of action.
Draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. - Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Lynne, from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs as well as on behalf of my political group, for her excellent work and this excellent report.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
This means that not all 'protected' groups, in other words those referred to in Article 13, are guaranteed equal rights under European law with regard to access to goods and services.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
The majority of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs voted in favour of adopting a horizontal directive.
I unreservedly support your request for a comprehensive directive to combat all forms of discrimination.
Article 13 is not a call for lack of action or for uncoordinated action, but an invitation to act.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I congratulate Mrs Lynne on a very hands-on report on this important subject.
I do, however, consider this report acceptable, assuming that Amendment 7 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is accepted.
Comprehensive legislation must be undertaken at a European level in order to strengthen people's rights in terms of goods and services.
She has done a very good job of underlining the poor level of implementation and transposition of the two directives adopted back in the year 2000 on risk and discrimination in employment.
I am hearing that three possible options are being considered in the Commission at the moment: the horizontal directive, which is still alive; secondly, a specific directive on disability or, the third possibility, a directive on disability and one other form of discrimination.
Mr President, in 2004, this European Commission got the green light of the European Parliament only upon the solemn promise to be the champion of fundamental rights.
So I expect the European Commission to take its own responsibility and stand for the rights of European citizens, because if the horizontal directive must fail, then let it fail in Council and not in the Commission. (Applause) (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs in 't Veld has said it clearly and I can only point out once again: we need the framework directive in order to grant everyone the same protection against discrimination.
There is a law in Germany that protects all attributes equally, but the government is leading a campaign here at European level against the framework directive without any plausible reasons.
That policy is laid down in all of our Treaties and in legislation.
Thank you very much. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Lynne for her report; it comes just at the right time.
I now appeal to the Commission, to each individual Commissioner, to state clearly that they are in favour of a clear horizontal directive and putting paid to a hierarchic arrangement of human rights in the European Union.
Article 13 is part of the Treaty and must therefore encompass all this, as stated in the Lynne report. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Lynne for her work.
EU citizens do not need this. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all agreed on one thing: we are against any form of discrimination.
Strictly speaking, they are even now in progress against 20 countries, that is three quarters of the EU Member States.
If the other groups assert themselves, however, and the demand for a framework directive persists, I see myself being forced to vote against the report, not because I am against protecting against discrimination, but because a framework directive at European level is the wrong way, in my opinion.
On 26 October 2004 President Barroso promised in this Parliament and during this Commission's term of office a framework directive on - I quote - 'all forms of discrimination'.
Two weeks ago I met with Federal Minister Zypries in Germany and Minister Follett in Britain.
However, dear Mrs Lynne, Mrs Schroedter, Mrs Gröner and Mrs in 't Veld, you mean well, but you are not doing yourselves any favours in the end if you are now calling for another directive against discrimination that goes beyond what we already have in Europe.
I do not see how we can wait for years before we have the legal possibility, as Mrs in't Veld explained, of using the courts to enforce respect for the rights that Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam grants to all citizens of the European Union. (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, European unity is based not only on the economy but also on many important values.
Finally, with reference to the Lisbon Treaty, I was very pleased to hear the comments of the Slovenian presidency last week on the 2008 work programme with regard to their response for the 'One Million Signatures for Disability' campaign.
This is why there is an urgent need for a comprehensive directive covering all discrimination in order to complete the anti-discrimination package under Article 13 of the Treaty.
The fact that in some Member States substantial defects may be seen in the transposition and implementation of Directives 2000/43/EC and 2000/78/EC, and a lack of information aimed at EU citizens concerning the possibility of taking legal steps in the event of discrimination, are cause for concern.
If we advocate anti-discrimination, then we have to argue in favour of implementing what is currently the law once and for all in the Member States. (PL) Mr President, I would like to comment on unacceptable discrimination against pregnant women, especially in view of the demographic collapse in Europe.
So, until we get horizontal application against discrimination... (The President cut off the speaker) (ET) Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, equality in the eyes of the law and protection against discrimination is everyone's human right - that much is asserted in the constitutions of our Member States, all of the Member States.
Nevertheless our citizens are not exempt from discrimination.
Ensuring protection of this right is just as important as judicial regulation of the matter.
Discrimination is not just a problem in the labour market but also in housing, education, public and private services and even in religious matters.
I call upon the Commission to take up this matter, not just with the Member States, but also to take stronger action within the EU institutions.
Still only 30% of the MEPs are women and only 9 MEPs are non-white. (DE) Mr President, what is effective against discrimination and supports the protection of people with disabilities?
It is important to implement the four existing directives.
It provides regulations for firms with 15 employees or more and a high administrative and financial cost is avoided - an SME protection clause is appropriate.
The force is 90% a Protestant organisation ... (The President cut off the speaker.) Member of the Commission. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, the debate showed the significance of combating discrimination.
The first issue on which practically everyone agreed is the need for more effective implementation of the legislation in all the Member States.
Ladies and gentlemen, the time allocated to us does not make it possible to continue this in-depth and very interesting debate.
I would also like to pay tribute again to Commissioner Špidla because I know it was his actual initiative to bring forward a comprehensive directive and call for the comprehensive directive within the work programme.
Some Member States cover some of them, others cover others and that is why it is important to get it right and have a comprehensive directive and not leave anyone behind.
I would like to conclude by voicing my support for the swift adoption of a complete and effective framework directive on non-discrimination, enabling Member States to join forces in this area and to adopt coherent and effective policies aimed at allowing citizens to feel truly protected by clear and comprehensive legislation at a European and national level.
Equal opportunities and non-discrimination at work are basic principles of employment, and the Member States should not have any problems complying with them.
The problem is a serious one because, as Mrs Lynne's report states, combating discrimination and human rights are priorities in the EU under Article 13 of the EC Treaty.
With this case in mind, I support point 36 in Mrs Lynne's report, which says that the scope of the principles of equality and non-discrimination should be broad and extend to social security.
in writing. - (HU) It is certainly relevant that Mrs Lynne's report on equal opportunities is on the agenda for debate today.
Just recently, on 17 May, we expressed our solidarity with transsexual, bisexual and gay people.
Prior to adopting legislation, it would also be important to carry out the social impact study and annual evaluation of implementation by Member States.
in writing. - (ET) Non-discrimination and human rights are basic values of the European Union.
A horizontal directive on non-discrimination covering social welfare, goods and services, health care and education is the only way to promote human rights protection in the European Union.
The Commission must not close its eyes and recreate a hierarchy between rights in the European Union. , in writing. - (HU) As President of the Intergroup for National Minorities, I welcome Mrs Lynne's report, which takes stock of what has already been achieved with regard to freedom from discrimination, and outlines what needs to be done.
The report rightly points out that the two existing directives only lay down minimum requirements, and so we need to take matters further towards developing a Community-level policy against negative discrimination and a horizontal anti-discrimination directive.
