One-minute speeches on matters of political importance The next item is one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. (ES) Mr President, as some of you will know from the media, a Spanish freezer vessel, the Playa de Bakio, based in Bermeo, carrying 26 crew aboard, 13 Spanish nationals and 13 crew of African origin, was seized yesterday when fishing for tuna in international waters 250 miles off the coast of Somalia.
For some time now, the fisheries sector has been very concerned at the absence of security in that part of the Indian Ocean where piracy has become rife and where a French yacht was seized recently on 11 April.
I think that Parliament should react decisively to the fact that the Dalai Lama has not been invited to any official meeting with the European Union by the Slovenian Foreign Minister, Dimitrij Rupel.
The sacrifices of the workers are essentially a struggle against the new imposition of medieval terms of employment against which all progressive forces must really fight as one. (RO) Deforestation has reached an alarming rate at a global level, namely 13 million hectares a year.
Therefore, we contribute fully to illegal deforestations in the Amazon and what's more, the phenomenon is also widespread in EU Member States such as Estonia, Romania and Bulgaria.
The need for a quality food supply to Europe now appears pressing; it must guide the negotiating position of the EU. (ES) Mr President, on Wednesday 23 April UNESCO is celebrating World Book Day.
That is also the day on which Miguel de Cervantes died and William Shakespeare was born.
The English playwright, poet and actor William Shakespeare was born on a different 23 April, according to the Julian calendar, and is regarded as the most important writer in the English language and also one of the giants of world literature.
This is the case in Catalonia, where it is traditionally the feast day of San Jordi, St George, a day for celebrating the Catalan language and culture.
The Moskovsky Korrespondent daily newspaper has disappeared from news stands because it showed an interest in Vladimir Putin's supposed divorce.
Moreover, people are not even allowed to ask questions about such matters, as was shown by the recent attack by Vladimir Putin on a female journalist from Niezavisima Gazieta, which reduced the woman to tears.
Journalists are intimidated, and in extreme cases physically liquidated, as was the case with Anna Politkovskaja.
The victims were journalists, Tibor Zágy, István Ambrus and János Fancsali, who were attacked from behind on the street at night by three young Romanians and brutally beaten.
In a similar incident on Saturday, another Hungarian, Mr Attila, was knifed in the main square in Szabadka/Subotica, in the Vojvodina in Serbia.
This is the place where, on 15 March 2008 - Hungarian Revolution Day - there was an anti-Hungarian demonstration, organised by a neo-fascist Romanian group, the New Right, in Kolozsvár, where, the same day, a young Hungarian was assaulted.
I am sure that we agree that any revision of the history of World War II is entirely unacceptable. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me call your attention to the fact that from today Written Declaration No 33 is open for signature.
On the sunny shores of Spain last Saturday evening at least nine Finnish tourists lost their lives and 19 were seriously injured when a drunken driver with one per mil alcohol in his system crashed his sport utility vehicle into the bus which was carrying them.
We all offer our deep sympathy to the victims' families. (BG) European citizens are concerned about the rise in food prices.
The general rise in prices is linked to energy costs, and the European Union is energy-dependent.
Iran, Saudi Arabia and Yemen also execute young people under the age of 18.
It should address China in particular, heading up these sad statistics, in an endeavour to bring it closer to applying these universal human rights, in accordance with the Olympic motto 'One World, One Dream'. (PT) Mr President, the Portuguese company Cerâmica Torriense has taken disciplinary action against Pedro Jorge, a worker and trade union leader at the company, with a view to his dismissal, after he participated in a Portuguese radio-television programme where all he did was tell the truth.
Unfortunately, though this report contains some good points, it did not go far enough to cover this destructural deficit we experienced by lagging so far behind the rest of Europe after over 30 years of terrorist violence.
I believe more can be done, more could have been done and more should be done to ensure we provide a very strong base to this peace process that many of us have worked so hard to achieve over such a long period of time. (HU) Mr President, on 11 May Serbia will go to the polls.
At the same time, approximately 80 million European citizens are below the poverty threshold.
In Article 5 the Council decision notes that there will be a transfer of mission from the UN to the EU force once the formers mission has ended.
I believe that a Member State that is celebrating on 1 May 2008 the fourth anniversary of its accession to the European Union should not adopt laws that are contradict the basic democratic principles of the European Union.
On a number of occasions, I have put the question to Commissioner Fischer Boel in this House, and each time she has reassured me that Commissioner Mandelson is staying within his remit.
As parliamentarians, we have a responsibility to ensure not just sustainable quality and traceable food, but also food security. (SK) I would like to point out that Cardinal Alfonso López Trujillo, President of the Pontifical Council for the Family, died in Rome yesterday at the age of 72 .
As the head of the influential Latin American Bishops Conference, he was considered a possible papal candidate after the death of John Paul II in 2005.
Cardinal Trujillo always responded to today's world events in a clear and timely manner.
In 2008 we have an anniversary that is particularly important for European countries: it is the 100th anniversary of the International Ice Hockey Federation.
Thanks to Mr Šťastný's contacts, the Stanley Cup was brought over from Canada especially for this occasion and was put on display, for the first time, in Belgium and in the European Parliament.
Employed in the strawberry fields of Nea Manolada, in the Prefecture of Ilia, Greece, they have been on strike, asking for their daily wage to be increased from the humiliating amount of EUR 23 to EUR 30.
