rapporteur. - Mr President, long before this crisis, the European Socialist Group and the European Socialist Party raised concerns over the tendencies on the financial markets for excessive debt, lack of transparency, taking high risks and paying too low prices, and making packages on leveraging which nobody could really understand or act on.
I feel very strongly that the debate this evening and tomorrow will be the most relevant debate in any parliament on financial markets anywhere in Europe or in the United States - debate and decisions in the sense that we are looking forward, trying to make better regulation than we have now and trying to take on a broad responsibility for doing the job as well as we can.
We have seen what happened in the US, and, while someone said that it is not as bad in Europe as in the US, I can only say that HBOS, Northern Rock and many other such cases is enough to convince me to act.
We now have in front of us a balanced report which demands that the Commission present proposals on legislation and regulation for all financial actors, including hedge funds and private equity.
We are asking for an aligning of reward packages with longer-term outcomes in order to reflect losses as well as profits.
I shall end by informing you that, as of four to five days ago, close to 90 000 people had signed a petition addressed to the European Parliament, the United States and world leaders, organised by the global internet movement Avaaz.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is indeed taking place, if somewhat by chance, at exactly the right time.
Mr Rasmussen has had to deal in particular with the effects on the financial markets and the Committee on Legal Affairs with its expertise naturally concerned itself in particular with the aspects of company law and, where necessary, with the need to change European company law.
The problem we see in practice at the moment is that profits are being privatised, but losses are being nationalised.
The fact is that it affects not only the major investors, but now also small investors.
At the same time, however, it has also become clear that we need further harmonisation and adjustment at European level in order to ensure that these sectors, which have now reached absolutely critical dimensions, also do not represent any risk for the financial markets.
I would like to respond to just a few key words, which have already been addressed in the draft report - which incidentally had already been resolved in the Committee on Legal Affairs in June when nobody was talking about this crisis in which we currently find ourselves.
One observer referred some months ago to this unfolding crisis as like watching a train crash in slow motion.
The downturn in economies will have its effects.
Vigilance and transparency are key if confidence is to be restored in markets.
Over the past year I have kept Members informed, both in plenary and particularly the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, of the work we have been doing on improving capital requirements in banks, as well as my ideas for regulating credit-rating agencies.
In the next few weeks I will be proposing to the Commission two separate regulatory measures to deal with these and other issues: firstly, an amendment to the Capital Requirements Directive and, secondly, a regulation on credit-rating agencies.
They are bound by similar transparency and consultation obligations when investing in public companies.
As these business models evolve and their role in financial markets changes, regulators around the world need to remain vigilant.
The industries themselves must assume all the responsibilities that accompany a prominent role in European and global financial markets.
The Commission has already been very active in this field.
If in that situation we imposed special obligations on hedge funds and private equity, this would result in discrimination of these categories of investors.
Secondly, we should not make the mistake to perceive all activities of hedge funds as a threat to the market but we should also be aware of the positive effects that their activities have.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - Mr President, I would say to the Commissioner that, in the current turmoil, the interconnection between all institutions is plain to see.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - (DE) Mr President, 2007 has continued to be brandished as a possible continuation of the mortgagee crisis.
It is not just US economic journalists and economists who are describing this situation in precisely this way.
Hedge funds and private equities are already some of the largest employers, but according to many judicial systems, they no longer appear so and are therefore, of course, relieved of their obligations as employers.
Regulation, supervision, transparency, employee participation and information in the pension funds sector, which are heavily involved in hedge funds and private equities, are vital.
This is just one of many facets that we have highlighted in our reports and opinions.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report was originally aimed at hedge funds and private equity, but now covers the entire financial system, which has completely collapsed.
As a start we must include all the financial institutions working with leverage in the particular risk assessment.
We then say that in the global financial system, risk-adjusted capital requirement must have the same status for all players.
We should also be stipulating requirements for promoters of packages and syndicating packages, whereby they retain a chunk beyond these packages.
In recent years we in the ECB have had a reliable partner, who all in all has reacted grosso modo in a rather more reasonable and balanced manner than the Federal Reserve.
This means that all in all we are assuming that institutions, or even voluntary associations, are being set up in Europe so that the subjects we are addressing can be better understood in order to prevent the next crisis of this magnitude.
After all, it would beggar belief if Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, who are now submitting themselves to that supervision and also wish to make use of those public funds, were to continue handing out bonuses running into millions.
However, this does present us with an opportunity to clear the air and establish a comprehensive review that addresses the exposure issues underlying the present turmoil as well as other risk and debt issues, including those within hedge funds and private equity.
Now, whilst debt and its proper management is one issue that appears everywhere at the moment, another is that of compensation packages and conflict of interest.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, certainly this report has come at a very interesting time, as we are experiencing a time of unprecedented economic upheavals, and recent events have made us sadly aware of some of the shortcomings, weaknesses and abuses in many sectors of the financial market.
We should also remember that the crisis which started in America resulted from bad banking practices, and the European banking sector, while badly affected, seems to be in a better position to deal with this problem than those banks in the United States.
Nonetheless, we must not deny that there are problems and faults in the structure and operation of many investment vehicles, alternative investments included.
Despite its name, this text does not seek to vilify hedge funds and private equity but instead notes the need for general market reform, greater transparency and calls for principle-based regulation.
The financial system is international by nature, and we need international supervision of these markets in a global context.
To secure global economic stability we must work together to find the best way forward, to put credibility and confidence back into the financial institutions and market for citizens globally, but also for the citizens of Europe, for their pension funds and also for their savings.
What Parliament is asking of you now is nothing less than a change of heart.
Financial instruments such as equity funds and hedge funds are not appropriate and we are waiting for the European banking and monetary authorities to come forward with ideas for putting some old proposals back on the table: I am thinking here of Jacques Delors' proposals in the early 1990s and of a reinvigorated role for the European Investment Bank so that we can secure long-term investment at a moderate rate of return.
It will be hard to stabilise the financial system - and the Rasmussen report mentions this point - without a determined assault on offshore financial centres and tax havens, and this is another area where the Barroso Commission is failing to take a lead.
The credit crisis is also a reflection of this course.
Hedge funds and private equity are the progeny of this course towards liberalisation.
Perhaps the measures being taken today were also planned.
They are expressing their disobedience and their insubordination towards this system and the centre-right and centre-left alliances that support and preserve it.
The ongoing work on the Capital Requirements Directive and on Solvency II affords an opportunity for introducing useful measures to improve financial security.
If our goal is to protect our economy and our economic and social system we have to have European-wide regulation but we must not replace national regulation with supranational deregulation as in the United States, where the system allows managers of companies to get rich on the back of poor investors, pensioners and people who depend on that capital.
The regulations in the Lehne report contain a number of indications or recommendations on, for example, the actions of fund managers.
Nor have the world's financial supervisory authorities been able to strengthen their cooperation and competence sufficiently.
The starting point now should be the equal treatment of all financial market players; that is to say, the introduction of stricter capital requirements and regulation, including for hedge funds and private equity.
The market economy needs clear rules, including clear rules of play.
The challenge, therefore, is to avoid paralysing our systems by over-regulating, leaving us unable to handle either growth or new crises.
It has been clear for some time that there was another financial bubble, and that one day it would burst, not only in the United States but in the European Union too.
The profits and gains were in the private hands of just a small group of investors and obscenely well-paid administrators, but those who will suffer the consequences are always the same: workers who lose their jobs, the rank and file who have to pay more interest, including here in the European Union, particularly in countries with weaker economies.
In this critical situation the European Central Bank's false independence must also be abandoned in order to ensure a change in monetary and financial policy objectives, and far-reaching measures must be taken to combat stock market speculation.
We must now - and this you have indeed promised - lay down rules and make proposals.
On the Thursday the newspaper headlines read: Morgan Stanley offers hope.
If, after Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and Merril Lynch, this investment bank is also now sinking in the chaos of the financial markets, corrective action should be taken as a matter of urgency.
We simply recognise that when certain financial vehicles or instruments are performing such strategic functions in the international markets and have acquired such a key position, then they must be subject to the general principle of regulation.
I have no wish to deliver an economics lesson, but we know full well that the banks felt able to take the risks they took precisely because of the parallel existence of hedge funds and private equities, processing financial products that accelerated the rot in the banking sector.
The key to confidence among ordinary people and among financial-market operators is transparency.
It goes without saying that I support many of the proposals in Poul Nyrup Rasmussen's report but I should also like to take the argument a little further.
There is a very real problem here, which you need to address and on which we expect effective proposals.
The committee overlooked the fact that last year the average securities firm was leveraged 27 to 1, with no regulation or supervision.
We then have the choice of either protecting the almost full freedom of choice for financial actors in taking risks, or to impose distinct obligations and limitations insuring effectively against excessive shocks and guaranteeing a stabilising development of financial markets.
The opinion of the Commissioner gives some hope for the future, but I am afraid that the tasks facing the Commission are extremely difficult and demand much more courage in finding new methods and new measures. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to say that both reports - the Rasmussen report and the Lehne report - as well as the social agenda with its 19 items that we debated last time, and the Council and Parliament resolutions on Georgia show what we are capable of when we are all pulling together, despite our different opinions.
In the last nine years in this House, Commissioner, I have not experienced a discussion on economic policy in which you have been asked to act so unanimously and by such common consent. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, six years ago we launched the global harmonisation of accounting rules and competitiveness in the European banking sector.
In other words, centralised control is crucial.
State intervention in investments banks such as AIG also arouses fears that such a precedent will lead to banks behaving irresponsibly in the future.
It is the European Socialist Party that raised the need for better regulation of the activities of hedge funds and private equity.
It is not a time for competition in regulation - since excessive regulation is not better than the lack of regulation - but it is high time to act, and you know it. (PL) Madam President, the events of recent years, or months, even, but also the efforts made by individual countries and regions, indicate the growing importance of transparency not only for individual companies, but also for the development of specific states' economies.
The introduction of unified regulations, creating better conditions within the European Union for hedge fund action and distribution, could have a positive impact on their development in Europe, but the introduction by individual countries of their own, individual regulations relating to these funds is not helping to create a unified, common European market.
Both types of alternative financial instruments that we are discussing have an increasing share of assets in the global market and participate in creating new jobs.
In my opinion, the most efficient way to increase not only financial stability, but also fair competition between participants in the market, is to enhance supervision and transparency at the appropriate levels without doing any harm to the model based on innovative market strategies.
The stability of financial markets requires appropriate transparency, and that specific measures must be taken in order to prevent excessive debt.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that hedge funds and private equity funds are based on a growth strategy designed for a term shorter than the duration of the investments which Europe needs. (ES) Madam President, the financial crisis has shown that the various financial operators are interlinked.
The fragility of the financial markets also requires political action at European and international level.
Current events are a setback for those who believe in unbridled free-market forces.
With these rules, Mr Rasmussen, we are actually hindering restructuring of the financial sector, and the losses will mount.
But many of the contributors to the debate here in this House want to have an unbalanced approach to it, and that is not reflective of what was in the report.
Some - many of the speakers from one side of the argument, in particular - see the current financial turmoil and the difficulties which there undoubtedly are as the great opportunity to regulate everything out of existence, and the great danger is going to be, both nationally and in Europe in particular, that a very unbalanced approach is going to be taken to this.
I think Mr Purvis put his finger on the pulse when he made reference to the fact that the supreme irony of this particular financial crisis has been that it was the most heavily regulated sector, namely banks, that got themselves and the rest of us into considerable difficulty, and that it was not the activities of private equity or hedge funds that caused any of these problems at all.
But, be that as it may, I think the Rasmussen and the Leinen reports as they have come before us are a genuine attempt to look at all of these particular areas in a balanced way.
The proposal which is currently before the ECON Committee under the rapporteurship of Peter Skinner, namely the Solvency II Directive, and the ideas I put forward there about cross-border supervision of insurance companies and the considerable advancement there as to supervision, has run into considerable opposition from a large number of Member States and from a large number of parliamentarians in this House who are affecting the views of the supervisors and in their own Member States.
This is well over a year, 18 months ago.
I very much respect the opinions of people who are consistent in all of this: people who say, 'I do not think that is a particularly good idea', and follow it through by saying it here in Parliament and when they go before the committee and stick with that position.
But where I do have difficulty is with people who in the main go along with some advancement in some of the areas which are referred to and then, when it gets down to a specific proposal, go back and more or less represent the views of their own Member State's position or of institutions in their own Member State.
So I will be interested, when some of the ideas which I am bringing forward, which I have signalled for some time and which are now in the public domain (there has been consultation about it, the papers have been out and everybody knows some of these propositions in the areas which have been referred to) - when, in the next very short while, these propositions come before Members of the European Parliament - whether all the Members who spoke so heavily for some changes in the wider area, when it comes down to specifics, will follow through and support what is here.
We know that in real life hedge funds and private equity often change their legal constructions, and there are a lot of examples of that - investment banks themselves have executed private equity activities.
The report explicitly adds: 'including hedge funds and private equity'.
It is relatively easy to draw up and implement proposals on these issues.
It makes perfect sense to incorporate them all into a European financial market and regulate them uniformly.
The situation demands action.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The fact that the lack of transparency concerning hedge funds and private equity funds has led to a flare-up of the current economic crisis is not up for debate.
For years on end these financial institutions have wrecked economies and carried out aggressive take-overs, ignoring not only medium and long-term economic consequences, but also the social consequences of their activity.
Likewise, hedge funds should provide the regulatory and supervisory authorities with full information on their transactions.
