Future agreement on Kosovo (debate) The next item is the statement by the Council and the Commission on the future agreement on Kosovo.
The status quo is not sustainable.
In accordance with the declaration of EU Foreign Ministers in Luxemburg on 18 June, the Council confirmed its support for special envoy Martti Ahtisaari and reiterated its position that his Comprehensive Proposal constitutes the basis for settling the status issue by means of a new resolution by the United Nations Security Council.
The European Union remains entirely committed to ensuring the timely adoption of such a resolution by the United Nations Security Council, which will also serve as a basis for the international and EU presence.
Our planning on the ground is well underway and has been undertaken based on the global approach adopted by the Council in December 2006, and on the assumption that a new resolution conferring a clear mandate on the EU will be adopted by the United Nations Security Council.
It is vital to get movement in the UN Security Council at this stage.
The Security Council members need to carry their responsibility for resolving Kosovo's status and set up a multilateral framework giving the whole region a sustainable outcome.
In June, the Council confirmed the EU support for UN Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari and his comprehensive proposal as the basis for the settlement of Kosovo's status and a new UN Security Council resolution.
Firstly, we must settle Kosovo's status without unnecessary delay.
Indeed, neither Russia nor the United States is as directly affected by what happens in the Balkans as Europeans are.
It would only risk instability in Kosovo, prolong the agony in Serbia and delay the region's movement towards the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for being so clear.
That is more than some speakers in this House.
It is important that we have a dialogue not only with Kosovo but also with Serbia, to give them the encouragement to move forward and to find a new path in the nation-building process.
In other words, even if we do not get a resolution, the European Union will take action.
On 10 July, Mr Solana stated that it is impossible for us to send a mission without a mandate, and this is why we expect a resolution.
Commissioner, Council, I would urge you to tell us finally what a resolution should contain as a minimum in order to spur the EU to send a mission to Kosovo in the short term.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, to be brutally frank, it is pretty clear that we have now reached a stalemate.
The unprecedented plan to grant Kosovo independence means destroying the territorial integrity of Serbia and further escalating the conflict.
What concerns me is that the authorities in the European Union wish to take sides in this Balkan conflict without having either the right or the mandate to do so.
The initial situation in Kosovo was atypical and non-standard.
In short, an all-out effort is called for to still reach consensus, and perhaps at the end we may reach a sound agreement to disagree with our Serb partners in the region. (NL) Mr President, even in the autumn of 2006, it became evident that the Ahtisaari report would favour independence, with special measures to protect Serb and other minorities.
I also experienced the apartheid imposed in Kosovo by Milošević from 1989 until the NATO intervention.
For this reason we have always appealed to the EU and its Member States to remain united in the search for a solution to the impasse in Kosovo.
This resolution, as I have said, serves as a basis for the international and European Union presence in Kosovo.
Quoting President Ahtisaari, who conducted 14 months of negotiations between the Serbs and Kosovars, 'a solution will not only be in the interest of the people in Kosovo, but also of vital importance for the regional peace and stability'.
The rest are queuing.
