Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote Mr President, I would like to put on record that, if we call for the sending of an ESDP border mission to Georgia, then we should also consider in the near future sending an EU police mission to Georgia. (PL) Mr President, I cannot support today's resolution on Georgia because I consider it to be unduly biased.
The situation in the Caucasus is more complex than the text of the resolution now before us suggests.
The latter are the result of the policy Stalin, who was himself a native of Georgia, conducted in the 1920s and 1930s.
In addition, the policy conducted by the Georgians during the 1990s did a lot to make the authorities in Suckhumi wish to break with Georgia.
The United States must realise that there is a great difference between the interests of NATO on the one hand, and the interests of the European Union and the people of Europe on the other hand.
I think that we live in a world now where food production is becoming very important again and we have to look to the future.
One of the ways of looking to the future of agriculture is through young farmers.
We also have to look a little bit further towards some sort of venture capital schemes, because one of the problems facing young farmers is they have very little collateral when they want to start farming.
I would like to point out in this regard that in 1997 - more than 10 years ago - this Parliament adopted by a vast majority my report on the status of assisting spouses in the agricultural sector.
The reason why I abstained had to do with the vote on paragraph 4, which makes reference to the situation of young farmers in the so-called new Member States.
The European Union's role in the contemporary world should be to spread peace, democracy, and freedom across the globe.
Coordinated action is essential both at Member State level and between the various European institutions.
There must also be collaboration with NATO and cooperation with other regional and global organisations. (EL) Mr President, I am asking to speak because we have just voted by an overwhelming majority in favour of making EUR 90 million available from the EU's Solidarity Fund to Greece in the wake of last summer's disastrous forest fires.
I regret this, but the effectiveness of the decision is more important than anything. (PL) Mr President, we are facing a tremendous challenge in terms of how to encourage young people to remain in rural areas.
Almost one third of Polish farmers are young people under the age of 40.
They are also crucial to our future, because the food security of Europe and of the world depends on them.
Certain technical aspects must, however, be corrected in order to fully apply this Regulation and these two lines of support, which is why I support the Commission proposal and the Parish report.
We welcome the criticism of the previous two measures in the Virrankoski report and, while we are against the decision to adopt the PDAB 3 unamended, accept that the raft of positive measures outlined must be voted through this session.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the joint report by my Finnish colleagues Kyösti Virrankoski and Ville Itälä on the third draft amending budget of the European Union for 2008.
It relates mainly to: the budgeting of the revenue accruing from the Microsoft case (fine and interest totalling EUR 849 200 000); the budgeting of savings arising from the smaller than estimated increase for salaries and pensions of officials in 2007; the reinforcement of the emergency fund for veterinary measures due to the bluetongue crisis (EUR 130 million in commitment appropriations, and EUR 63 950 000 in payment appropriations); the creation of budgetary items to accommodate subsidies for four Joint Undertakings: Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), Clean Sky, ARTEMIS (embedded computing systems) and ENIAC (European Technology Platform on Nanoelectronics), totalling EUR 257.5 million in commitment appropriations and EUR 194.6 million in payment appropriations from the Seventh Framework Programme for Research; and the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund for an amount of EUR 98 million (forest fires in Greece and floods in Slovenia).
in writing. - (PT) This draft amending budget covers, among other items, mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund in favour of Greece and Slovenia.
The aim is to help compensate for the damage caused by the forest fires and flooding which seriously affected the populations of these two countries in 2007.
The draft also aims to reinforce the emergency fund for veterinary measures due to the bluetongue crisis which has affected several Member States, including Portugal.
Accordingly, in order to finance 100% of the cost of supply of the vaccine and 50% of the costs incurred in carrying out the vaccination in nine Member States, it is planned to include in the Community budget EUR 130 million in commitments and EUR 63.95 million in payments.
However, we would highlight the inclusion of over EUR 257 million in commitments and EUR 194 million in payments for the creation of new public-private partnerships in the context of the Seventh Framework Programme for research, technological development and demonstration activities.
in writing. - (PT) The aim of this amending budget is to include the surplus from the budget year 2007 in the Community budget for 2008.
The draft also includes amounts not used in 2007 under the EU's common foreign and security policy, such as the 'police mission' to Afghanistan and the so-called 'civil mission' to Kosovo.
As regards the situation in Kosovo, we would highlight the illegal and illegitimate military/'civil' operation by the US-NATO-EU - in other words, interference, destabilisation, aggression, occupation and unilateral declaration of independence of the Serbian province of Kosovo, with total disregard for international law - and the current 'stalemate in negotiations on the transfer of responsibilities from the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) to EULEX' (European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo) in the United Nations.
Finally, I want to point out that the 'surplus' from 2007 will reduce the Member States' contributions to the Community budget, in particular as follows: EUR 300 million less for Germany, EUR 258 million less for the United Kingdom and EUR 233 million less for France.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I voted in favour of adoption of the report on the draft amending budget of the European Union No 4/2008 for the financial year 2008 (9904/2008 - C6-0207/2008 -.
The report by Mr Virrankoski is thorough and to the point.
I agree with the rapporteur's stance that the balance of each year's budget should be entered in the budget for the subsequent financial year as revenue or expenditure.
In the case before us it would be the budget for 2008.
For this reason I support the idea of formally establishing an anti-corruption network with contact points in the Member States, the activities of which must be fully associated (within the respective competencies) with other organisations and agencies playing a fundamental role in this fight, as is the case with OLAF (European Anti-Fraud Office), Europol and Eurojust.
I also support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, Hubert Pirker, in particular the amendment on the need for transparency and information in relation to the activities and recommendations of this network, which must result in the presentation of an annual report to the Commission and the European Parliament.
in writing. - (RO) I welcome the Council's decision regarding the contact points network against corruption, aimed at improving cooperation between the authorities fighting against corruption in the EU.
The European Commission (by means of OLAF), Europol and Eurojust should be part of this network.
Unfortunately, in several of the new EU Member States, including Romania, the fight against corruption is rather used as an election promise and as a political weapon directed against the opposition political parties.
in writing. - (PT) The establishment of a 'network of contact points' in a framework of cooperation between the various Member States, with the aim of sharing experiences and good practices, could form another asset in the fight against corruption in each country.
in writing. - (DE) Corruption is a widespread problem affecting every sector of our society, whether it be the economy, trade unions or the administration.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my French colleague Marie-Hélène Aubert, which proposes amending, via the consultation procedure, the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing.
in writing. - (PT) Illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing is currently one of the main problems facing the management of marine resources.
As the biggest consumer and importer of fish products, the European Community has particular responsibility in the fight against illegal fishing, in the adoption of solutions preventing these practices from continuing and in the pressure which must be brought to bear on the international community to adopt similar measures.
The European Parliament report contains 65 proposed amendments which complement the Commission proposal and go against national interests.
in writing. - (PT) The sustainability of fish stocks is fundamental to guaranteeing the long-term existence of fishing activity and the socioeconomic viability of the fishing sector.
As such, it is vital that measures are adopted to reinforce the fight against these illegal activities, in particular by reinforcing control mechanisms in each Member State.
However, we would reiterate that any future harmonisation of these proposals with a future revision of the Community legislation on control must safeguard the competences of the Member States, particularly for inspections.
It is in the interests of all fishing communities that IUU is tackled and the EU has a vital role to play in this.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of adoption of the report by Mrs Aubert on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing - C6-0454/2007 -.
It therefore seems essential to establish a Community system to combat the aforementioned practice.
in writing. - Mrs Aubert's report on the Community system against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a report that I generally support.
I agree with a number of the rapporteur's proposals.
In the light of the tragedy affecting this profession, what are we proposing to these men, these regions, these villages, these local economies?
in writing. - Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a growing problem which requires enhanced cooperation between the EU and the international community if it is to be efficiently tackled.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the report tabled by our colleague Marie-Hélène Aubert on a Community system to prevent illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. - ?PL) Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, known as IUU, represents a serious problem.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my esteemed Portuguese colleague Duarte Freitas, which, in accordance with the consultation procedure, proposes amendments to the proposal for a Council regulation on the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems in the high seas from the adverse impacts of bottom fishing gears.
This draft regulation implements the United Nations recommendations of 2006 and applies to EU vessels operating in the high seas in areas that are not regulated by a regional fisheries organisation and thus require flag state regulation.
This proposal aims to protect these ecosystems in the high seas, particularly in areas not regulated by a regional fisheries management organisation.
in writing. - The Freitas report relates to vulnerable marine ecosystems in the high seas.
The high seas fall outwith the responsibility of any nations or fisheries organisations and fishing activities have been largely unregulated.
It is appropriate that the EU takes action in this area, given the international nature of the fisheries.
in writing. - (FI) The EU's Maritime Policy is one of the main initiatives for which the current Commission will be remembered in a good light.
This proposal for a Council regulation on the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems in the high seas from the adverse impacts of bottom fishing gears is a necessary addition to the EU's strategy.
Although environmental targets have been at the top of the world's political agenda for more than twenty years now, many factors still threaten maritime biodiversity.
in writing. - The protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems is essential in order that future generations can enjoy the marine environment.
in writing. - (FR) With its vote the European Parliament is putting in place strict principles to regulate the activities of Community vessels using bottom fishing gears in the high seas, in zones not regulated by regional fisheries organisations.
I am pleased that the Members of the European Parliament have recognised that the deep-sea ecosystems are an important source of marine biodiversity and that the shift in the fishing effort towards these habitats risked destroying our heritage.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I welcome the Commission's objectives of simplifying, stabilising and clarifying trade rules and procedures.
They are therefore increasingly becoming the main factors in a world ever more dominated by economic relations which, as well as influencing the flow of cultural exchanges between peoples, help to avoid military confrontation and maintain peace.
Trade therefore represents an extremely important vector of dialogue and an opportunity for economic and social development.
That might seem logical because we have been part of a customs union for more than 40 years.
I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the report regarding the efficient import and export regulations and procedures in the sector of trade policy, which ensure greater efficiency in the customs field, as well as the cooperation among the European customs agencies.
The losses incurred by the violation of intellectual property rights amounted to EURO 62 million in Romania in 2007, according to the analysis conducted by the International Alliance of Intellectual Property.
The adoption of this report by the European Parliament and the development of the plan for fighting counterfeiting and piracy on a European level will reduce this loss.
Combating these practices and putting a stop to them will contribute to better health protection and improved security for the citizens.
Working in close cooperation with important trading partners at international level, they protect international freight transport against the smuggling of goods linked to terrorist activity.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my esteemed German colleague Reimer Böge, which proposes approving as it stands the Commission proposal to mobilise the European Union Solidarity Fund to assist Slovenia and Greece, which in 2007 were affected by floods and forest fires respectively, to the tune of around EUR 98 million, which should be the subject of an amended budget adopted in parallel.
in writing. - (PT) The severe forest fires that devastated Greece in the summer of 2007 and the serious flooding in Slovenia in September 2007 justify this (second) mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund for 2007.
This Fund has an annual ceiling of EUR 1 billion, of which around EUR 163 million has already been used at the request of the United Kingdom following the floods that hit that country in 2007.
An amount of around EUR 837 million is therefore still available.
The proposal adopted today provides for the allocation of nearly EUR 90 million to Greece and around EUR 8 million to Slovenia.
in writing. - (PL) The proposal to mobilise the Solidarity Fund once again is contained in amending budget No 3/2008.
The previous application benefiting the United Kingdom (EUR 162 million) together with the application currently under consideration to benefit Greece and Slovenia (totalling EUR 98 million) leaves considerable scope for manoeuvre in the second half of 2008, bearing in mind that the annual ceiling for Solidarity Fund resources is approximately EUR 1 billion.
Furthermore, other formal requirements contained in the interinstitutional agreement of 17 May 2006 have been met.
The Committee on Budgets was able to obtain all necessary additional clarification at the meeting in May attended by representatives of the countries that suffered natural disasters in 2007.
The amending budget was submitted by the European Commission on 14 April 2008.
There is therefore all the more reason to highlight the swift response by the European Parliament, and the good cooperation between the Committee on Regional Development and the Committee on Budgets, regarding favourable consideration of the proposal concerning aid for the affected countries.
in writing. - I welcome the action taken to help Greece and Slovenia recover from 2007's forest fires.
I therefore voted in support of Reimer Böge's report on the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund.
in writing. - (PT) The general aim of the proposal presented by the European Commission is to continue the EU-wide liberalisation of scheduled and occasional coach and bus services - in particular between the various countries within the EU and between these and third countries, including cabotage operations - as from 1 January 2009.
in writing. - (PL) I should like to express my support for the report by Mr Grosch on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common rules for access to the market for coach and bus services (recast).
In the case of regular international services, there is still a clear need for simplifying measures to be introduced regarding the issue of authorisations to provide such services in all Member States of the European Union.
in writing. - (PT) The Grosch report is one of a series of texts on road transport activity and its rules in the European area.
in writing. - (IT) I am voting in favour of the report put forward by our colleague Mathieu Grosch on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for access to the market for coach and bus services.
I agree with the proposal to liberalise coach and bus services within the Member States, not only so as to simplify the European legislative framework in this area but also so as to enhance cooperation among EU countries.
These conditions are: the international occasional transport service must include at least 24 hours in a Member State or a third country, other than the one in which the service started; the weekly rest period after the application of derogation must always be at least a normal weekly rest of 45 hours; a compensatory rest period of 24 hours is effectuated constantly before the end of the third week following the derogation implementation; in the case that the driving period is carried out without interruption between the hours 22.00-6.00, the vehicle is provided with two drivers or the driving period is reduced to three hours; starting with January 1st 2014, the implementation of this derogation is possible only in the case of vehicles provided with recording equipment according to the European regulations.
We have chosen to vote for this report.
The hygiene package has given rise to debate in several Member States, including Sweden.
In the great majority of cases, however, the problem has not been the legislation in itself but the implementation of the legislation by the national authorities.
Safe food, in sufficient quantities and at low prices for the workers, is unlikely to be available unless there is a shift in EU policy that serves the interests of the food multinationals and the increase in their profits.
in writing. - (PT) I voted against the Schnellhardt report on the hygiene of foodstuffs because I consider that the Commission's proposed amendment of Regulation (EC) No 852/2004, aimed at exempting small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the food sector from the application of the HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point) system, is not currently justified given that to date there is no evidence of specific problems with the application of this procedure.
in writing. - (PT) The European Parliament today adopted, at first reading, a report on the exemption of food business operators from the Regulation on the hygiene of foodstuffs.
Experience in Portugal shows that this exemption is essential both to defend traditional gastronomy and its associated habits and customs, and to protect family enterprises, which represent a large part of the workers in this sector and which are the ones facing the most difficulties given the competitive imbalance with large groups.
While it is true that the legislation on foodstuffs must guarantee a high level of protection for the lives and health of people and the interests of consumers, this cannot be confused with the end of traditions and attacks on the gastronomic culture of each country and each region.
I welcome the proposals to exempt micro-enterprises and accordingly voted in favour of the Schnellhardt report.
in writing. - (SK) I voted for the report by Mr Horst Schnellhardt because it will result in the reduction of bureaucratic burdens for small and medium-sized enterprises in the food industry, in particular for micro-enterprises (bakeries etc.), it will make business activities more attractive and it will create new jobs.
The HACCP system provides a hazard analysis and a critical control point method.
This proposal addresses two distinct problems: firstly, reducing red tape in respect of transport costs and conditions, and secondly, adjusting the rules exempting micro-enterprises from the requirements deriving from the HACCP system, aimed at guaranteeing the maximum degree of food safety and ensuring a high level of protection for human life and health, as well as for consumer interests.
in writing. - (NL) Mr President, if we mean well toward small and medium-sized enterprises, we have to pass laws that they are also able to comply with.
The amendments proposed by the Commission are very useful because they still require small companies to meet hygiene standards but at the same time they relieve them of red tape and of the obligations that are genuinely not feasible for small businesses.
On the other hand, I voted for the final report because we have been able to make some progress towards a solution.
in writing. - (RO) The Regulation No 11 on eliminating discrimination in terms of tariffs and transport conditions requires carriers to hold a transport document which should contain, among others, the distances, routes and borders passage points.
In the field of transportations, the proposal aims at the reduction of certain obligations to provide statistics in the transportations field.
Yet, as far as this modification is concerned, only the European Parliament has been consulted.
Quality is a factor in competition between enterprises.
The HACCP system was officially accepted by the World Health Organisation in 1975.
In 1993 it was adopted by the Codex Alimentarius Commission as an appropriate tool with which to regulate the production of food.
in writing. - (PT) Directive 96/22/EC prohibits the use of thyrostatic substances, stilbenes, stilbene derivatives, their salts and esters, which are on list A of Annex II, for administration to 'animals of all species', meaning to both animals or animal products used for human consumption as well as to pets.
However, the two products on list B of Annex II may be used under certain conditions.
in writing. - (PT) The Commission proposes to exclude pet animals from the scope of Council Directive 96/22/EC which would enable their treatment with substances having a thyrostatic action and with beta-agonists.
It is therefore proposed to prohibit entirely the use of oestradiol 17 ß and its esters in animal production for human consumption, putting an end to the various derogations that still exist today.
I would point out that these hormones, when used to promote growth, can be carcinogenic to human beings and that the existing derogations can finally be ended as these hormones can be replaced with alternative substances without any problems.
in writing. - (PL) I support the report by Mrs Scheele on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council directive 96/22/EC concerning prohibition on the use in stockfarming of certain substances having a hormonal or thyreostatic action and of beta agonists.
The report also takes account of scientific research in this area of veterinary science.
In particular, I welcome the complete ban on the use of the hormonal substance named oestradiol 17 β in the rearing of animals raised for meat production.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my German colleague Helmuth Markov, adopted unanimously in the Committee on International Trade, which proposes amending, in accordance with the consultation procedure, the proposal for a Council regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 and amending various Regulations.
This proposal for a regulation conforms to the 2004 guidelines on the role of the GSP for the 10-year period between 2006 and 2015, which introduced a number of new objectives, such as targeting preferences on countries that most need it, enlarging the product coverage of the GSP to products of interest for developing countries, making the graduation system more transparent and stable and introducing a new special incentive scheme to encourage sustainable development and good governance.
I fully support the report's call for the European Parliament to be more closely involved in this GSP policy, which is crucial for the countries that need it and which costs us EUR 3.5 billion each year in loss of customs revenue.
in writing. - (IT) In a society now dominated by a globalised economic market, in a world where three billion human beings live on less than two dollars a day and more than one billion survive on just one dollar, stimulating economic development in the so-called third world by means of appropriate trade policies is a duty incumbent upon the Community institutions.
While pursuing these goals, however, we must take care not to restrict the developing countries' economies to producing a limited range of goods, especially if these are low added-value products, since that would hamper - rather than foster - development and economic growth in those countries.
It seems that 38 years of preferential systems have not made much of an impact on the economic and social situation of these countries and their populations.
in writing. - (PT) As we have highlighted previously, the current Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) is based on a logic that is in itself contradictory.
In other words, development is promoted in order to liberalise international trade through a model promoting exports, regulated at world level, with a 'centre' and a 'periphery'.
This logic prevents fair international relations and aid for the development of the endogenous factors of less economically developed countries, without which - together with the theft of foreign debt and the imposition of the interests of large multinationals from the US, EU and Japan - these countries will continue to have a peripheral and subordinate status.
Textiles and clothing are particularly affected, especially due to the existence of a high graduation threshold for the sector.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, the treatment meted out to Georgia by Russia is simply unacceptable by international standards.
It is doing its utmost to block all relations between Georgia and the West.
The resolution adopted today is an expression of precisely that kind of support for a sovereign Georgia.
in writing. - (PT) Among the various important aspects that could be highlighted in relation to this resolution, I must point out the profound hypocrisy of those who are currently reiterating their full support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a state when they are the same ones who instigated and supported the illegal and illegitimate 'operation' by the US-NATO-EU against Yugoslavia.
See, for example, the calls for 'deeper European involvement' and 'bolstering the international presence in the conflict zone by sending an ESDP border mission' (in other words, a mission from the EU which contains 21 member countries of NATO and in which the ESDP - European Security and Defence Policy - is the European pillar of NATO).
See, for example, the initiatives to set up 'broad and comprehensive free trade agreements' between the EU and Georgia.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of adoption of the resolution on Georgia.
The people of Georgia need our support and solidarity.
We should not only show the people of Georgia our support, but also do all in our power to protect them and their country from a conflict with potentially tragic consequences.
In addition, the situation in Georgia demonstrates how important our neighbourhood policy is for our policy as a whole.
in writing. - (ET) Georgia is undoubtedly going through a difficult period.
in writing. - (FR) Our message is clear: we are denouncing the dangerous escalation of the conflict in this region and reiterating the EU's support for Georgia.
I was part of the delegation that visited Georgia to observe the elections on 21 May 2008 and I witnessed the intense efforts being made by Tbilisi in its democratisation process.
This significant progress, which I observed when monitoring 14 polling stations in the Gori area, should not obscure the difficulties that persist in the region.
in writing. - British Conservatives reject much of Paragraphs 6 and 8 which refer to ESDP missions.
We are against ESDP in principle and do not regard the EU as the appropriate organisation to be undertaking security missions in far-off areas of potential conflict.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my esteemed Polish colleague Jacek Saryusz-Wolski on the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and the European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP), which have helped to reinforce European identity and the role of the European Union in the world.
The first of the geographical priorities must be ensuring stability in the Western Balkans and strengthening the dialogue with Serbia and Kosovo.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Saryusz-Wolski on his report concerning the European Union's common foreign and security policy.
In relation to important matters such as the aggressive energy policy conducted by Russia, the events in Kosovo and the case of Tibet, the Union has recently demonstrated that the CFSP remains a distant goal.
in writing. - I will be voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - I fully support my own group's Amendment 7 to the Saryusz-Wolski report expressing concern at President Sarkozy's sales offensive on nuclear technology worldwide, which could lead to enhanced nuclear proliferation.
With the Lisbon Treaty, the EU would have a more effective and coherent voice on international affairs and I welcome the fact that the report deals with the treaty's contribution in this domain.
I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - British Conservatives do not wish to see British foreign policy subsumed by the EU.
We reject the Treaty of Lisbon, any idea of an EU 'foreign minister' or an EU seat on the UN Security Council, and any EU role in defence.
Of course we welcome opportunities for 27 nations to speak with one voice where this is wholly consistent with British foreign policy interests.
Similarly, we support better coordinated humanitarian action, and a more robust approach in dealing with abhorrent regimes in Zimbabwe, Burma, and elsewhere.
We have abstained in the vote on all parts which refer to NATO, since we come from a country which has no military alliances.
in writing. - We generally vote against EU legislation and indeed voted against this report as a whole.
Therefore, we could vote for these two amendments without compromising our overall stance to both this report as a whole and EU legislation in general.
The forces promoting 'European integration' - namely the major financial and economic groups, the social democrats and the right - are trying to affirm the EU as an imperialist bloc under the control of its major powers.
I voted against the report because I do not want the EU's common foreign policy to be strengthened.
in writing. - British Labour MEPs voted in favour of this report which looks at the implementation of the European Security Strategy and the continuing role of ESDP missions.
Labour MEPs voted against the text of paragraph 39 looking at the role of Eurocorps.
While the UK is not involved in Eurocorps, and this force has never been used, Labour MEPs feel it important to emphasise that there are no standing forces under permanent EU command, and we believe that there is no need for such structures.
in writing. - I welcome Mr Kuhne's report on the annual report on the implementation of the European Security Strategy and ESDP.
The international nature of the security issues Member States face requires greater European cooperation.
I would therefore welcome the introduction of a solidarity clause among Member States on such issues.
I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (IT) Europe's security needs have changed.
However, in the desirable process of expanding its external action capabilities, the EU must not confine itself to the military dimension alone: it must undertake to develop, in parallel, civil crisis management mechanisms involving action by the police, civil administrators, the judiciary, civil protection officers and so on.
The common security policy must therefore be strengthened in order to give the Union a key role on the international geopolitical scene, a role which is distinct but not distant from that of NATO.
On this optimistic note I am today voting in favour of the report by Mr Saryusz-Wolski.
in writing. - (PT) The European Union's ambition in terms of security and defence is clearly less than its ability, and this is not just due to the traditional problem of coordinating and cooperating on external priorities.
There is also a central issue that must be tackled.
However, they also require a public perception of the need for, and usefulness of, this cooperation.
We must construct this strategy based on cooperation - by specifically investing in interoperability and by creating operational capabilities on the ground - but it is particularly public support that is often missing from this dimension of our policies.
in writing. - (FR) The two reports put to the vote today - one on the common foreign policy and the other on the security and defence policy - have one thing in common: they take the Member States' foreign and defence policies away from them to the advantage of the civil servants in Brussels.
In short, none of the EU Member States will have the political and military resources to ensure their own independence and freedom.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I supported the resolution on the EU-United States summit because in addition to matters pertaining to bilateral partnership and global challenges it refers to the visa question, which is an issue of great importance to Polish nationals.
Some three quarters of the 10 million Poles resident in the United States hail from the Lesser Poland region of my country, which explains why there are such long queues in front of the American consulate in Krakow.
I welcome the fact that these two are now being joined by key political figures each fasting for 24 hours.
The United States must either bring the captives before a court or release them, in accordance with international law.
Unfortunately the report deals with far too many matters going beyond this problem, questions for which other international bodies, in particular the United Nations, are competent.
We do not think that the European Parliament has a role to play as regards the political situation in countries which are not in the immediate vicinity of the EU, such as Iran, Kosovo or Iraq.
The European Parliament should also not attempt to expand European foreign policy by calling on other countries to develop cooperation and common strategies on terrorism and weapons of mass destruction.
We believe that discussions must also focus on Russia's obligations, and include wider international disarmament efforts, as explicitly recommended in the successful Socialist Group amendment to the European Security and Defence Policy report, also voted today.
It accepts the continued occupation of Iraq and Afghanistan and suggests practical cooperation measures between the United States and the EU in the Euro-NATO protectorate of Kosovo.
The resolution is yet more proof of the irreversible strategic agreement between the EU and the United States at the expense of the people.
in writing. - (PT) One of the most surprising facts of European policy is the way in which relations between Europe and the United States are treated, particularly when compared to the methods used to present our relations with other partners who are more politically and culturally different.
However, it is essential that we have control over the tensions and divergences between partners in the same project.
in writing. - British Conservatives are strong supporters of the Transatlantic Relationship; however, we do not agree on redefining this as a relationship between the EU and the US, particularly in defence matters, and we therefore reject much of paragraph 16.
in writing. - (PT) While clearly revealing its inter-imperialist contradictions, this resolution reaffirms the cooperation between the EU and the US and the aim of reinforcing their partnership - particularly in light of the forthcoming US presidential election - in sharing 'responsibility' in the world.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the joint resolution tabled by five political groups on the Union for the Mediterranean.
I welcome the initiative of the President of the French Republic, Nicolas Sarkozy, to whom this Union for the Mediterranean owes a great deal, and I wish him every success with the inaugural summit, due to be held in Paris on 13 July.
I support the political proposal to give this future Union a parliamentary dimension on the basis of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the adoption of the joint resolution on the 'Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean'.
This resolution rightly highlights the strategic interest of the Mediterranean region and the Middle East for the European Union.
Our policy towards these countries must be based on the principles of solidarity, dialogue and cooperation.
The Commission proposal also recommends the establishment of a Barcelona Process co-presidency, a Joint Permanent Committee and a secretariat, which will help to improve cooperation and dialogue between the various partners.
In addition, it states that the main objectives of this policy must continue to be promotion of the rule of law, democracy, respect for human rights and political pluralism.
in writing. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is not done with disowning hyper-President Sarkozy: rejection of the proposals on fuel tax, warnings against the budgetary slides and, now, transformation of the proposed Union for the Mediterranean into a re-launch of the Barcelona Process, which has been a failure for more than 10 years.
in writing. - (PT) If you only read the resolution adopted today, you would tend to believe in the most genuine and benevolent intentions of the EU with regard to the 'Union for the Mediterranean'.
However, the European Commission makes it clear that 'the Mediterranean region is an area of vital strategic importance to the European Union in both political and economic terms'.
This fiasco illustrates the debasement of our country in the European institutions.
The idea of the French President, Mr Sarkozy, for a special union between the EU and all the countries of the Mediterranean, calls especially for support among the public of the EU Member States that border the Mediterranean Sea.
The Union for the Mediterranean does not in the final analysis have equal, mutually profitable relations with the states of the region.
The aim of this Union is to liberalise markets in order to enable them to be more easily accessed by European monopolies, whose position in the monopolistic fight for control of the markets will be improved.
The resolution is also revealing.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, the percentage of young farmers in the European Union continues to fall.
We should therefore help young farmers to draw on Union funding for this purpose.
Mr Veraldi's report deals with all these matters and I therefore voted in favour of it.
The EU should not concern itself with everything.
I have chosen to abstain in the final vote on the report on the future for young farmers under the ongoing reform of the common agricultural policy.
The report contains many proposals which improve the situation for newly established young operators as well as proposals which can contribute to the increased production of food.
However, we regard as inadequate those measures adopted to tackle the existing problems which make Portugal the EU Member State with the lowest percentage of young farmers (less than 4%).
in writing. - (PT) In recent decades, European rural areas have been increasingly abandoned, a trend which has been accompanied by a gradual ageing of the population.
This ageing of the agricultural population is worrying for the future of European agriculture.
That is why I consider the Veraldi report to be very important as it looks at various aspects connected with the expectations and opportunities of young farmers who have a key role to play in the sustainable development of European rural areas.
I believe that young farmers are particularly important to the development of a dynamic agricultural sector in order to achieve the Lisbon Strategy objectives.
in writing. - (PL) We should welcome the fact that by a large majority, the House has adopted the report on the future of young farmers under the ongoing reform of the common agricultural policy.
Support for the development of modern methods and agricultural production tools is therefore a particularly important feature of the resolution adopted today.
As usual, we in Junilistan note that in this case it is fortunate that the European Parliament does not have powers of codecision on the EU's agricultural policy because, if it had, the Union would be caught in a trap of protectionism and heavy subsidies to various groups in the farming industry.
This own-initiative report contains a number of absurd proposals, such as yet another 'European Year', this time for 'urban-rural dialogue'.
The affirmation in paragraph 35 that rural development measures should be aimed directly at farmers strengthens Junilistan's impression that the old, overburdened 'common agricultural policy' has now merely changed its name to 'rural development' in the EU budget.
I have therefore chosen to vote against the report.
in writing. - The Veraldi report on the future of young farmers highlights a number of important issues which are of relevance across the EU's rural areas.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of this report, as I consider that the measures stipulated therein are complementary to the national programmes in this field.
The report we are adopting today provides for a series of significant measures, both in terms of the financial support of young farmers, and in terms of certain essential legal aspects, like the facilitation of succession upon agricultural property or easy access to bank credits.
Thus, I consider that future legislation should provide for the huge disproportion between the younger population aged 35, active in the agricultural sector (only 8,5% of the total number of farmers in Europe) and the other age categories in this field.
They are the ones who are facing up to the numerous economic and ecological challenges and ensuring a good and well-balanced social environment in the rural regions.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the adoption of this report, which highlights the fundamental challenge generation change in the agricultural sector poses for the European Union.
However, these requirements mean ever-increasing financial and personal investments from young farmers.
It is essential to encourage and facilitate young people's access to the agri-food sector in order to promote generation change and ensure the dynamism of the sector.
It is important to ensure that we do not place them at a disadvantage or harm their existing operating methods.
I support the general direction of the Veraldi report on the future for young farmers under the ongoing reform of the CAP and voted accordingly.
The report also recognises that, like any other modern industry, farming needs to be competitive, efficient and able to respond and adapt to market demands.
The present situation in the food industry, high food prices and the production of quality food are the major challenges for European rural areas.
It is good to see that young farmers in particular are interested in the ecological farming system.
Entrepreneurial spirit in farming has its typical features and carries far greater risks than entrepreneurial spirit in other economic sectors.
I voted for the report by the rapporteur, Mr Donato Tommaso Veraldi, on the future for young farmers under the ongoing reform of the common agricultural policy, because I am convinced that by supporting young farmers we can significantly help to improve the employment rate in peripheral European regions and prevent young people from leaving rural areas.
in writing. - I will vote in favour of this report but I must highlight that Amendment 35 is unacceptable to me and I and the British Labour delegation will vote against this particular amendment.
The ageing of the agricultural population, the abandonment of cultivated land and the constant reduction in the number of young people working in farming are recent developments that have occurred during the past 20 years.
The report actively supports the partial review carried out on the CAP in 2003, the proposed CAP 'health check' measures and the inclusion of the agricultural economy within the framework of the EU's anti-popular Lisbon Strategy.
in writing. - (PL) As a member of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly I should like to congratulate Mr Hutchinson on his report, which I fully support.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Hutchinson report.
in writing. - (FI) I have been a member of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly since my first term of office.
Mr Hutchinson's report on the work of the Assembly in 2007 is, I believe, a comprehensive account of both the progress made over the last year and the challenges that we have faced.
in writing. - I welcome Alain Hutchinson's report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2007.
I therefore voted in favour of the report's recommendations.
Somalia is not alone, however, and we in the EU and the ACP are obliged to support, help and direct attention on these regions.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report on the activities of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
The ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly has many tasks before it, all of which aim to promote the economic development of the ACP countries.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of this report, which makes another significant contribution to Europe's economic development.
I therefore welcome the excellent work done by Mr Pittella, who has clearly spelled out the proposals and principles which should regulate this very important sector.
Financial services are of general economic interest, in that they play a key role both in terms of economic development and in terms of properly implementing the Schengen objectives.
It is not enough to guarantee the right to a bank account.
It is essential to guarantee the public service which also exists in the financial sector, without which we will worsen social inequalities, dramatically affecting those people with fewer financial resources, social solidarity institutions and other social organisations, including small and micro-enterprises.
in writing. - The Pittella report, which I supported, highlights the importance of culture, habits and languages in consumer choices and protection for financial products.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the work done by the committee responsible and the rapporteur, Mr Karas, has taken our parliamentary debate a stage further and is helpful in clarifying what problems need to be tackled and resolved in this field.
The financial services sector does not just serve large companies operating at European or intercontinental level; it is likewise a vital tool for anyone wishing to take new ideas and ways of doing business beyond their own local market.
in writing. - (PT) The liberalisation of retail financial services in the single market is the most recent proposal from the European Commission following on from the liberalisations set out in the Lisbon Strategy.
As a result, and following on from other initiatives, the liberalisation of various retail financial services is now proposed, in particular banking products, insurance and pensions.
in writing. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur quite rightly points out, for there to be a market, there must be supply and demand.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Karas report on retail financial services in the single market.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the Report "The Green Card for the retail financial services on the single market”, because the access of the consumers to the retail trans-border financial services represents an important factor of the reinforcement of the single market, under the conditions of insuring a high degree of protection to consumers.
I have an enormous problem with one article in Karas' report, however, in which he refers to the differences between taxation laws in various Member States.
