Mr President, colleagues will have read in some of this morning's newspapers about the refusal of the Republic of France to recognise the extraterritorial status of the European Parliament.
This is a denial of our status as a supranational Parliament, and I hope that you will be protesting to the French government about the fact that Mr Chen has not been allowed a visa. . . - . . .
It seems appropriate to us to take the time to discuss this matter further with the Macedonian authorities before the Council takes a decision.
All the more reason, therefore, not to approve the request for urgent debate. (Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure) Proposal for a Council decision establishing the Community position within the Ministerial Conference set up by the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation on the accession of the People's Republic of China to the World Trade Organisation [C5-0487/01 - 2001/0218(CNS)] Mr President, I recommend that urgent procedure be applied to this document because it would also make it easier for China to take part in the forthcoming meeting in Doha. (Parliament agreed to urgent procedure) Proposal for a Council decision establishing the Community position within the Ministerial Conference set up by the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation on the accession of the separate customs territory of Chinese Taipei (Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu) to the World Trade Organisation [COM(2001) 518 - C5-0488/01 - 2001/0216(CNS)] Mr President, the same argument in favour of urgent procedure applies in this case as applied to the previous matter, namely, that Taiwan too should be able to take part in the meeting in Doha. (Parliament agreed to urgent procedure) Community incentive measures in the field of employment The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0319/2001), on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council decision on Community incentive measures in the field of employment [8432/1/2001 - C5-0294/2001 - 2000/0195(COD)] (Rapporteur: Mrs Jensen).
We should like to see the social partners and local and regional authorities more involved in the process, and we should like to see greater focus placed upon the ways in which information and employment policy affects a broader public.
The Council thereupon accepted a number of Parliament' s amendments, including those aimed at involving the local and regional levels and at involving the social partners more.
A majority of Parliament has campaigned for a long time for local and regional efforts to be incorporated into employment policy, and we have pointed out that the exchange of experiences and methods with those operating at local level and working in a voluntary capacity could be financed via Article 129.
That is why it makes good sense to talk about local action plans and about the exchange of experiences and information from this work.
We have supported local employment initiatives by means of preparatory action, for which there has been a budget line called B5-503, and it is Parliament' s desire that this initiative should be followed up and continued via pilot projects under Article 129.
We do not wish, under Article 129, to finance projects with the project-oriented and experimental character of projects financed under Article 6 of the Social Fund.
I mention this because, during its twelve years in power, the Fraga government has been constantly concerned about the issues and problems arising from the lack of employment in Galicia, and for this reason, during the latest election campaign, it made a commitment to providing jobs for the young unemployed under the age of 30 consisting of a one-year contract for those who have been out of work or unemployed for six consecutive years.
This concern about employment, as laid down in Article 3 of the Treaty and which takes the form of a European Community action for promoting the coordination of employment policies in Member States, confirmed by the special European Councils on employment in Luxembourg and Lisbon, which resolutely advocate a global employment strategy, implies and demands a systematic mobilisation of all Community employment policies, whether these be framework policies or support policies.
If we want to become a knowledge-based economy that is both competitive and dynamic, able to grow economically in a sustainable fashion, with more and better jobs and with greater social cohesion, so that we can once again meet the conditions necessary for full employment, we should encourage the coordination of employment policies between Member States, upholding, of course, the right to make decisions that correspond to the particular circumstances of each Member State, the exchange of good practices, including the aforementioned forms of participation for social partners and also local and regional authorities, without forgetting the need for the coordination of policies directed towards the creation of employment.
I think that this is good practice, in the same way that the practice for the conciliation of family life with professional life was also good, another initiative of the Galician government.
It is a good day today, for today' s vote should show that we are now all endorsing the fact that employment policy is not just something made behind desks at meetings of the Council of Ministers, but is something that must be rolled out among the people.
However, support for local initiatives is required, for example, in the form of better information about what the common European employment policy is and what the objectives are.
That is why it is also disappointing that it has been difficult to get the Commission to agree to increasing the budget so that we might appropriate this money, and that is why we, in the Group of the Party of European Socialists, have naturally endorsed the need to increase the amount to EUR 55 million, and not EUR 50 million.
Mr President, I, too, should like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done on this report.
I hope that this will be the case here too, but I am far more pessimistic this time round.
I am delighted that the rapporteur drafted this report.
We will hear from the Commissioner and particularly the Council whether they will at long last leave behind their old ways and perhaps are really willing to enter into a dialogue with this Parliament.
We must make ensure that all the Member States understand that it is crucial for the social partners and civil society to be involved if this effort to increase employment is to be effective.
We already have experience of numerous countries, including Greece, in which local employment pacts have failed to work.
The programme underpins the European Employment Strategy and provides for activities to ensure its continuing effectiveness.
It is important that it is going to be adopted in the near future and I am hopeful that outstanding concerns expressed in the 14 amendments submitted can be resolved satisfactorily.
In its amended proposal the Commission, after the first reading, accepted in full or in part 12 of the 17 amendments tabled by Parliament.
The common position which you have been considering, while significantly different in format and presentation from the amended proposal, contains resonances of the ten amendments.
In relation to the amendments which are now under consideration, the Commission can accept nine of them in full or in part.
In Amendment No 4, I very much welcome the reference to special attention to groups subject to multiple discrimination in their access to the labour market and I share your concerns that we should be able to understand, monitor and analyse developments in mainstreaming by establishing indicators.
However, assigning funding for the 'projects' in this context is not appropriate, and I have to reject that part of Amendment No 5.
Our diverging views on Amendment No 5 may lie more in the wording used than in any disagreement on its intent.
Local projects involving local actors are funded through Article 6 and the European Social Fund regulation, as well as through another budget line - B5-503.
The analysis, research and evaluation work which it incorporates will include measures, informed by the outcomes of the projects delivered under other budget lines, to assess how knowledge of the European Employment Strategy, and local level involvement in its delivery, might be further improved.
With regard to Amendment No 8, I again fully subscribe to the principle of consistency and accept this part but I cannot agree to specify each linked programme.
Amendments Nos 6 and 7 are taken on board in spirit by the inclusion of Amendment No 1, and Amendment No 14, I can fully support.
I will briefly explain why: Amendments Nos 9 and 10 concern the committee.
We could look at the mandate in future discussions to see if this could be adopted to meet your concerns as part of a global compromise.
On the annual plans in Amendment No 11, this is an internal Commission question which has no place in a Parliament and Council decision.
Amendment No 12 also has to be rejected on institutional grounds and more specifically with reference to the framework agreement on interinstitutional relationships.
Finally, regarding Amendment No 13, we maintain the EUR 55 million initially proposed.
To sum up, the Commission can accept in full or in spirit Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 14; it can accept in part Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 8; it rejects Amendments Nos 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13.
Accordingly, I am hopeful that, with your cooperation and that of the Council, we can soon identify a compromise which is acceptable to all.
Thank you Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Almost all the Member States have a legislative or contractual legal framework in place intended to guarantee the information and consultation of employees.
Only in June 2001 did the Council adopt a common position.
As rapporteur, I called upon the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs not to repropose all the amendments adopted at first reading but concentrate on the most important points in order to improve the common position.
My colleagues - whom I would like to thank for their cooperation - put forward 15 amendments to my proposal, almost all of which serve to reinforce it.
There are 16 amendments and they concern: the procedures for consulting employees, and these are in line with the common position but more specific in identifying problems; the definition of economic and financial information; the exact definition of 'social partners' , in order to avoid ambiguities; the protection of employees' representatives, which needs to be better defined in terms of protection against disadvantage with regard to career, wage and training; suspension of decisions which could result in substantial negative consequences for employees, so that the taking of a final decision can be deferred for a suitable period at the request of employees' representatives in order to allow time for further negotiation and for a solution acceptable to all parties to be found.
It is my genuine hope that this House will confirm the wide majority reached in committee and will lose no time in providing the Union and the Member States with this major legislative instrument during the Belgian Presidency.
The regulations on European works councils apply only to mergers of businesses across national boundaries, but restructuring often takes place at a national level.
Article 1 prescribes that the procedure should be carried on in a spirit of cooperation.
Timely information means transparency that creates trust and avoids businesses making friction losses.
We dropped a huge number of amendments from first reading and concentrated in the committee on a number of compromise texts, on which it must be possible to reach agreement, in our view.
However, we hope that the PPE-DE will continue to support the compromise proposals we reached in committee.
The differences of opinion with the Council mainly revolve around two key points: the provisions on sanctions and the unnecessarily long transitional periods.
I will briefly comment on those two points.
In this connection, I would like to refer to the experience in my own country.
In the Netherlands, this kind of sanction exists in legislation pertaining to works councils.
That is very important for industrial relations, in my opinion.
If one considers - as they did - that information and consultation are very important, not only to employees but also to employers and to the company' s performance, then one must ensure that this measure is introduced very promptly.
Come what may, based on the experience which we have gathered in the Netherlands with an act that has been in force for more than 50 years, it appears that industrial relations have improved as a result.
We have had a long period in which it was difficult getting everyone to understand the need for revising this directive, and revision has been blocked by a majority of the Council.
Flexibility is a key word when it comes to drawing up the common rules, but there must not of course be so much flexibility that the required information and consultation does not occur in those places in which these things have not been emphasised.
Mr President, my group supports the recommendation for second reading, which, moreover, received the very broad approval of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
In addition, we would like the Council to follow suit and thus put a definitive end to the three long years that have passed since the Commission, perceiving the breakdown in social dialogue, made very timely use of its right of initiative.
Although the Council is opposed to European sanctions, the least it can do, in my view, is to accept this compromise position.
If our citizens are to find this directive credible, it will have to be applied simultaneously throughout the European Union.
Our group proposes to supplement the draft recommendation by adopting amendments that rule out the possibility of withholding information that the company considers sensitive to its business from employees' representatives, because we are convinced that there are no grounds, that it even constitutes discrimination to introduce an element of suspicion with regard to employees who, by definition, have no less company spirit than the management or shareholders.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, despite the fact that it has welcomed some of the positions adopted by the European Parliament, I find it deplorable that the Council persists in maintaining a proposal for a directive that fails to meet the expectations of workers in the European Union.
When you see the behaviour of the directors of many companies, especially the multinationals, who decide to restructure, relocate or even partially or totally close down their businesses, making hundreds or thousands of workers unemployed simply to cut costs and/or increase profits, it is all the more intolerable that the Council should not have accepted proposals that we have adopted in this House.
These are our reasons for supporting Mrs Ghilardotti' s proposals, which once again take up the positions adopted at first reading, with particular emphasis on the amendments that seek to step up sanctions and specific legal proceedings in cases where the directive is breached, on suspending decisions at the request of workers' representatives when their implementation has serious consequences for workers, with a view to eliminating or minimising these harmful consequences, on eliminating the transitional periods for the directive' s implementation in Member States that do not have a system of worker consultation and on reducing the period of transposition into national law to two years as well as its implementation in the public sector.
I can only regret the fact, however, that the rapporteur has dropped her two proposals on eliminating the option the Council wishes to give employers to, in certain cases, neither inform nor consult their workers, although the rapporteur' s proposals envisage sanctions against employers that fail to act promptly.
We hope that a majority in Parliament votes in favour of these and that the Council takes account of the positions that have been put forward here in one of the most sensitive areas of the protection of workers' rights.
I refer, in particular, to the legislation on European works councils, which has not been transposed by all the Member States and, where it has been transposed, has not been incorporated into their legislation but is regulated by means of agreements between the social partners which are often then disregarded by one of the partners, as has been shown by recent events which, moreover, have been debated in this very House.
Yet Parliament, which has, in the past, been attentive to the issue of employment and openly involved in establishing and guaranteeing the dignity and even the quality of work, and which, moreover, has not hesitated to propose sanctions for the cases I have mentioned which even involved requirements governing the use of European funds for maintaining employment levels, has shown varying degrees of indecision in the debate on this report.
In other words, is the Commission able to ensure that the social partners themselves are given the freedom to enter into, and maintain, the existing agreements and procedures about informing and consulting employees, just as Denmark was given a similar assurance in connection with the compromise reached by the Council in July?
It is very important that the Member States themselves should devise appropriate sanctions, that this is done by means of agreements between the social partners and that we take account of the Member States' different systems.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, the view that it is, in general, appropriate and also necessary to ensure an adequate flow of information between a company and all its stakeholders, especially the employees involved in the life of the company, is, I believe, widely held, including by myself.
However, I am not in favour of imposing on the States, the individual Member States, solutions which involve employees in management decisions, on the basis, in some cases, of joint management models which are foreign to the legal and economic traditions of many European countries, as has just been said.
I therefore feel that, in line with both the Commission' s initial proposal and the Council' s common position, the directive before us needs to leave the Member States sufficient room for manoeuvre to identify the best way of adhering to the principle of the need to keep employees informed.
However, many of the amendments adopted by the Commission and included in the common position which we are about to put to the vote conflict with this, particularly Amendments Nos 2 and 12, which seek to grant employees' representatives a sort of de facto - and I repeat, de facto - right of veto on decisions taken by companies.
There are also a number of amendments which some delegations in our group find it difficult to come to terms with.
I also believe that if we have voted on this matter by lunchtime today, we will have made a significant contribution to informing and consulting employees in Europe.
It must make sense for workers in retail, service and manufacturing industries not to learn about their future through the media, but to work within a positive consultation mechanism making them aware of what will happen to them and their families.
The question is whether existing laws work well.
Workers in my own country at Rover/BMW, Marks &amp; Spencers, in Longbridge, at Corus and Vauxhall - the list is endless - would all benefit from this directive.
The directive is essentially about the future of work, not the past.
It is clear that some Member States will continue to have problems with certain aspects of this directive.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work on this report.
I am one of the Members who has spoken in this House previously regretting the fact that we did not have the kind of legislation that we are discussing today.
It will mean that employees will be involved in discussions when there really is still an opportunity to influence the debate and the outcome, not when the decision is more or less a fait accompli.
The ability to impose sanctions is one of the most important aspects of this report, including the suspension of decisions which lead to job losses if the consultation guidelines have not been followed.
I am very pleased that there has at last been progress on this crucial matter.
Employees are an integral part of the partnership with management and must be kept informed on decisions which affect not only their lives, but those of their families and whole communities.
Until now, the directive has not enabled employees to take any effective action and to have a real bearing on their future, and that of the business.
That is why we are proposing two amendments, which rule out the possibility of withholding information where there is a risk or prejudice to the business.
According to Max Weber, a company is an organisation that, in controlling goods and services, aims to produce goods and services for a particular market.
It is also clear that those who lend their services to a company cannot always relate to their employer directly or on a personal level, above all when the number of employees in that company exceeds a certain level.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we are all well aware, I believe that we are about to take a decisive step along the path to adopting a general framework on the information and consultation rights of workers.
It has been almost three years since the draft directive was published, and during this time, we in this House have had to condemn many situations.
There have been site closures, redundancies and relocations, without any prior information being given by the companies to the employees concerned.
These three years of debate have resulted in a text that is now balanced and realistic.
That framework directive is also needed - as has been indicated by various people - if we consider what happened to Renault-Vilvoorde, Michelin, Chorus and other companies.
For example, in the case of Chorus, there is a pronounced difference in the level of information and consultation provided in the Netherlands, for example, compared to England.
Consequently, this directive relies wholly on the quality of information and consultation.
There was long debate on Amendment No 7, which laid down what information supplied by the employer must include.
This includes the economic situation - developments in the market, the structure of the organisation, the company's strategy - but also turnover and production figures to show the financial position.
It is in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that dialogue between employer and employee is particularly important.
This dialogue is to be set in motion in the Member States, in accordance with their current national regulations.
The exact difference between the regulation and the recommendation is that, when the regulation is violated, there can be a sanction.
Like my colleagues in the UK Conservative Delegation, I have consistently supported the principle and the practice of employee information and consultation.
In my previous job as managing director of a large UK food manufacturing company, I was very proud to lead the first such company in the whole of the West Midlands Region to achievement of the coveted Investors People Award.
If companies are held back from taking the key decisions necessary perhaps for the very survival of those businesses, their problems will get worse, which means that more employees could suffer.
The UK government has asked all UK MEPs from all political parties to vote down all these amendments and to support the common position.
Recent events, with mass lay-offs across Europe, have only underlined the urgent need for different kinds of instruments and this proposal - this directive - information and consultation is a very important instrument.
Once adopted, the directive will ensure better anticipation of crises and will contribute to developing a positive attitude towards change by both management and workers.
Let me tell you that I fully understand all your requests.
The text before us strikes a delicate balance between different points of view and divergent interests on the sensitive issues at stake.
While I understand your desire to improve the text, it would be unwise, in my view, to depart now from that balance and jeopardise the actual adoption of the proposal.
These are Amendments Nos 3, 6, 8, 13 and 14.
The Commission will, therefore, actively support these amendments and will do its utmost to facilitate consensus on them between Parliament and the Council.
Now, we know that the most difficult and controversial issues are the two which I have already referred to: sanctions and transitional periods.
With regard to the first of these issues, Amendment No 2 and especially Amendment No 12 propose reinforced sanctions, including judicial suspension procedures in cases of serious breach of information and consultation obligations.
Nevertheless, taking into account the sensitivity of the issue in the Council, the best basis for a final compromise on this issue would be to limit the request to the first sentence of the proposed amendment.
Under these circumstances, the Commission can accept Amendment No 2 and the first paragraph of Amendment No 12.
We can accept Amendment No 2 with a minor change.
Finally Amendment No 15 which seeks to delete Article 10 - on transitional periods - is equally a major issue.
In the past, the Commission has always opposed this kind of provision which tends to grant different treatment to different Member States.
Some Member States will clearly have to introduce major changes to their industrial relations systems.
Therefore, the Commission is of the opinion that Article 10 of the common position constitutes a fair compromise and it cannot accept this amendment.
To sum up, the Commission can accept in full or in spirit Amendments Nos 3 and 8; it can accept in part Amendments Nos 2, 6, 12, 13 and 14.
It rejects Amendments Nos 1, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11, 15, 16, 18 and 19.
I know that you fully appreciate the challenges ahead of us: we need to do everything possible to find an acceptable compromise between the co-legislators.
Thank you, Commissioner Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
the proposal for a Council decision (COM(2001) 511 - C5-0498/2001 - 2001/0208(CNS)) on the guidelines for employment policy measures by the Member States in 2002 and 2.
the Commission communication (COM(2001) 438 - C5-0423/2001 - 2001/2168(COS)) on the draft Joint Employment Report 2001.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, employment policy in the EU was successful last year even though not all our ambitious objectives have been achieved.
In few other fields do we have to think in the long term as much as in employment policy.
My impression is that the Member States have not only grasped that, but that they are also acting accordingly.
We have always followed employment processes in the Member States and offered constructive criticism.
I have therefore concentrated this year on some new key points.
We are very keen that this topic should find its way into all policy areas by a kind of mainstreaming.
The second key point is gender equality in the employment market.
The proportion of women in employment has increased by 2% in any case, which is of course not enough for us, but it is the right way to go, and also shows the change in the Member States' thinking.
A third point is very important to me - the integration and incorporation of disadvantaged groups into the employment market.
We had debates in Committee as to whether it made sense to demand a right to continuing education and to direct the national governments to translate it into action.
I appeal also to the Member States, to the Council and to the Belgian Presidency to have the courage to initiate a public debate on employment policy in Europe.
I cannot help thinking that we could do with a bit more courage on the part of the finance ministers on the Ecofin Council, in order to guarantee here, too, the appropriate and proportionate goal for a rational European employment policy, for only then can an offensive for growth and employment in Europe be realised.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is, in our view, the Member States which have the primary task of creating the appropriate framework for more employment.
I believe, though, that dialogue between the ministers of the various Member States is particularly important here.
On looking into the matter more closely, we note that we have in some countries of the European Union almost full employment, but in others unemployment - and, in particular, youth unemployment - on a frightening scale.
If we want to be successful, the establishment of new enterprises is especially important.
The women of Europe must not be forced to choose between professional life and having a family.
Overcoming gender discrimination at work and in the social insurance systems is a huge challenge.
Mr President, when the experiment of the Luxembourg procedure was set in motion in 1997 and guidelines for Member States' employment policies adopted, it was in the conviction that a favourable climate of economic growth might not alone be sufficient to ensure automatic positive results in employment.
Today, we are confirming this strategy, these undertakings and guidelines in an economic climate which we all know to be much less favourable, or, rather, full of risks, and we are therefore doing so, first and foremost, by duly recognising the need, already established at the Lisbon Summit, to bring the economic policy guidelines adopted at Community level and by the Member States into line with employment policy recommendations and guidelines.
This does not diminish the specific role of the Luxembourg procedure and the economic policy guidelines in the context of what has been defined a coordination process, an open coordination process.
It is not enough just to state the objectives which are then included under the principle of subsidiarity in national employment plans.
No one will now deny that the European employment policy, since it first started in 1997, has led to a certain level of convergence stress in the Member States and has brought with it increasing unanimity as to what an active labour market policy in Europe could be.
Commissioner, it seems obvious to me, however, that collective agreements as well as social legislation will be needed in different areas where the social dialogue has failed.
That is why it is of the utmost importance for my group, for example, to know whether the European Commission will, after the failure of social consultation, produce a draft directive on temporary employment.
Indeed, temporary employment can create new opportunities.
However, for temporary employment to be quality employment which offers social rights, trade union rights, right to training and, at the same time, guarantees for permanent staff in the firms making use of their services, a European directive must be compiled which offers a number of warranties, warranties which have, inter alia, been presented in the joint declaration recently concluded by Euro-CIETT and UNI-EUROPA and that include, for example, equal treatment at temporary employment agencies and at firms making use of their services.
I do not agree that we, in the EU, should have a directive granting any rights, but I well understand that many in this House want to see special emphasis and importance given to actually ensuring a right to training.
The employment guidelines provide, of course, both some political priorities and some political objectives, and they also provide a framework for deciding which funds are to be used in order to achieve the objectives.
Many points have been registered under the four pillars, and I believe we are coming to a point at which it is worth considering whether we are pinning too much on this process, for the more objectives we add to the process, the more we are also in danger of watering down the cooperation and perhaps losing sight of the real goals, namely those of creating more jobs and getting the unemployed into work.
At times like these, when a recession may be looming, we find it even more regrettable that employment is not the main priority of the economic and monetary guidelines.
Whilst expressing regret that the Member States did little in response to their invitation to set objectives for unemployment levels, the Commission and the Council have quite rightly placed the emphasis on verifying the qualitative impact of the policies implemented.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs submitted a number of proposals for the report, of which a number were adopted and introduced into the report.
The parliaments have no influence at all, but it is nonetheless they who must fund the national efforts we are demanding.
Mr President, I am pleased to have the opportunity to address Mrs Weiler's report.
This was true prior to 11 September.
One in 12 EU citizens is unemployed today.
This is an intolerable situation and one which is of great concern to all of us.
Indeed, unemployment rates are much higher in some Member States.
Hardest hit at the moment is the airline industry but we must not forget the tourist industry which has already suffered greatly this year from foot-and-mouth disease.
The fact that we are an island state without any linkage to the rest of Europe means that we require this.
The Commission must look at this sympathetically and favourably.
On the one hand, this means that we are operating in an area where what is decided is not legally binding, and this, of course, gives free rein to a lot of fine words and good intentions.
Progress has been made in lifelong learning, in the application of practices which have proved their worth, in the involvement of both sides of industry and in action plans for local and regional employment.
Above all, though, incentives for active jobseeking and for investment in research and development, the reduction of the tax burden on work and structural reforms are all still lacking.
Not everything can be blamed on the tragic events of 11 September.
Mr President, I should also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for an excellent report.
Mrs Weiler, I would like to express my congratulations to you on this work, but also wish to point out three major problems that I find in the real world, which is not quite as rosy as it is depicted in some of the Commission's assessments or, indeed, in this report.
First among them is the strategy of full employment by 2010 on the basis of a 3% growth rate.
The third problem is this: you have addressed the issue of the quality of work but, in my opinion, the social content of work is largely disregarded.
The law on employment contracts is 'made more flexible' but in reality it is relaxed.
One pillar of the employment strategy, the entrepreneurial spirit, calls for priority to be given to the creation and growth of SMEs, which have enormous potential for job creation, as we can see from the most recent data from Eurostat, which shows that micro-enterprises with between one and nine workers made the greatest increase in terms of job creation in the European Union.
We all know that the European Union will only become a knowledge-based economy if all Member States make investment in human resources their absolute priority.
While the European Parliament deliberates on a report on employment policy, a report that sings the praises of competition, and claims that the social market economy has proved its worth, this same market economy has recently claimed a further 4 000 victims, 4 000 Moulinex workers who now find themselves jobless.
I could, however, cite dozens of other businesses scattered throughout Europe, from Philips to Siemens, as well as several airlines.
The money needed to finance jobs must be deducted from the wealth accumulated by shareholders, past and present, and from the resources held by banks.
However, Commissioner, the success of the method, given the fact that it is not a binding mechanism, relies on the moral and political pressure that can be exerted.
Media attention plays an essential role in this.
Media attention has waned and, as a result of this, there has been less pressure on national governments to take serious account of the objectives and of the annual criticism levelled by the Council and Commission at their national action plans.
The open coordination method is only successful insofar as convergence stress continues to exist, and efforts will need to be made in order to sustain its existence.
The different reports include best practices for national Member States.
The Employment Strategy is just one part of the European debate, but this is the first time there has been a general downturn in the economy, the first time there has been anxiety and, however much we want to avoid creating fear or panic, the situation is clearly going to be more difficult and problems with employment and economic development are bound to appear at the beginning of next year.
It is true that the analyses underlying our proposed guidelines are based on the excellent results for 2000, which possibly painted the most positive picture of employment and job creation in Europe in the last twenty years.
It would be a huge reversal at this stage if the Member States failed to focus their energies on efforts to apply the employment strategy as agreed.
The first is the need for national targets.
The Member States need to set national employment targets.
Your text contains proposals for changes to the guidelines.
The European Commission will examine a good number of them.
I should like to offer you my warmest thanks because the open and highly interesting debate on the guidelines in Parliament has enhanced the substance and role of the strategy for employment in European policy in general.
Thank you, Commissioner Diamantopoulou.
The vote will take place at 11.30 tomorrow.
The key to this method is the parallel introduction of action values and limit values that should never be exceeded.
However, there are, unfortunately, also less happy facets of this proposal by the Council of Ministers.
Amendment No 2 is crucial.
The report therefore proposes a limit value of 0.8 m/s2.
It therefore makes more sense to set a limit value in which the protection of employees will, in actual fact, be something real.
Amendment No 5 proposes shorter transitional periods than those proposed in the common position.
With the common position, however, we should arrive at transitional periods of up to 12 years, and it makes almost no sense to legislate for such long periods.
We have arrived at a compromise whereby agriculture and forestry, like aviation and shipping, are given the opportunity to be exempt from these limit values for whole-body vibrations.
It has been maintained that farmers would only be able to work for two hours a day.
It simply means choosing another method, and it is worth emphasising that the action values must go on being maintained.
The text before us is balanced and reasonable and fulfils the main purpose of this directive, namely to ensure flexibility in the workplace at the same time as ensuring that employees are guaranteed the necessary protection against harmful vibrations in the workplace.
We must, however, find a fair balance between, on the one hand, the need to protect the health and safety of workers and, on the other hand, the need to prevent this directive from placing excessive burdens on companies and particularly on small- and medium-sized enterprises.
For these reasons, our group believes that the amendments adopted in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs are a relatively acceptable compromise between the requirement for the protection of workers and on the competitiveness of European industry.
Mrs Diamantopoulou, I hope that this spirit of openness, as part of our conciliation work with the Council, will enable us to agree on a halfway point so that the directive can be adopted within a reasonable timeframe.
The preparatory work needs to be done to move quickly once that five years has expired.
If we do not vote for the compromise in Amendment No 11, I believe that the harvest across the whole of the EU will not be able to take place.
If we do not vote for it, tractor drivers, for instance, will be able to drive their tractor for between 2 to 4 hours in any 8 hour period and that is if we get the 0.8 m/s2 that the rapporteur is suggesting.
I hereby beg you not to vote for the rapporteur's position on this and to go back to the common position and vote for Amendment No 11 and against Amendments Nos 2, 4, 12 and 9.
Mr President, in my opinion, the rapporteur has done sterling work.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Thorning-Schmidt on her excellent work and, having said this, I would like to remind you that Article 31(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states that every worker has the right to working conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity.
This is a wide-ranging declaration, within the chapter on solidarity, which includes not only the measures taken against obvious risks, such as the risk of falling or risks faced when dealing with abrasive materials, but also those preventative measures used against risks that could go undetected by the majority of those who are not experts in this field.
Mr President, in my two years in this Parliament I have never received such a barrage of letters of complaint as I have about this report.
They are also from ordinary employees concerned about their jobs if the rapporteur's amendments go through.
The above comments from constituents have two things in common: their anger that Socialist MEPs should be proposing such amendments in the first place, and their sheer disbelief that such MEPs could be so out of touch with reality.
UK Conservative MEPs agree, and we urge the UK Labour MEPs, who supported this report so resolutely in committee, now to support the common position, and meanwhile to support our compromise, tabled jointly by a number of political groups.
Credible estimates suggest that the costs of implementation in the UK alone could range between EUR 15 and 30 billion.
The effects will reach into a wide-range of industries - not only agriculture, but road haulage, construction and many other areas.
It appears that the limit set by the directive would restrict a truck driver to six hours work, a tractor driver to two or three hours and a brush cutter to 15 minutes.
It has been pointed out that the average jogger exceeds the limit by a factor of 7 or 8, while even walking down a road could break the rules.
There is a crying need, Mr President, for proper regulatory impact assessments to be applied to European legislative proposals.
It appears that we cannot reject the whole proposal, but I appeal to colleagues to support amendments which would soften it and to reject amendments which would make it even more disastrous than it already is.
Although we consider that lower values more in line with the amended proposal would be more appropriate, we have accepted the Council's common position with a view to achieving a global compromise.
For reasons of consistency, the Commission cannot therefore accept Amendment No 2, which decreases the exposure values for whole-body vibrations in the common position, nor the part of Amendment No 5 which reduces the length of the transitional periods.
However, the last part of Amendment No 5 would be acceptable if slightly redrafted.
Although the Commission agrees with the principles behind the changes proposed by Amendment No 1, we can only agree with the first part but we cannot accept the second part which foresees the commitment of both the European Parliament and the Council to continue with the adoption of other parts of the original physical agents proposal.
I regret that I have to reject Amendment No 6 as it stands.
To conclude, the Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 7.
Thank you, Commissioner Diamantopoulou.
The vote will take place at 12 noon today.
I want to know on what basis that decision was taken.
I think that the House should be reminded that when the present Commission was accepted, it was accepted on the basis of the need for radical reform.
At the last part-session, I raised under points of order, this whole question and asked the presidency to give this House a comprehensive report about the state of reform discussions as soon as possible.
I hope I have the support of all colleagues in the House in saying that we still consider this the centre-piece of the reforms and we do not see any reason why Parliament should not follow a similar line to that being taken by the Commission in this crucial area.
But the matter will be given full discussion when the Bureau meets again tomorrow.
Mr President, can I just object to the fact that the Thorning-Schmidt report and the Ghilardotti report are going to be voted on immediately after the debate?
Some Groups have not had a chance to look at the Ghilardotti report in particular and to debate them.
This report has been scheduled for today since the agenda was drawn up.
VOTE (Parliament approved the Commission proposal) - Draft Council decision on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting (10616/2001 - C5-0362/2001 - 2001/0804(CNS)) (Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs) (Parliament approved the Commission proposal)- Proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 2262/84 laying down special measures in respect of olive oil (COM(2001) 455 - C5-0437/2001 - 2001/0181(CNS)) (Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development) (Parliament approved the Commission proposal) Reports without debate: Report (A5-0317/2001) by Caroline Jackson, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision laying down a Community Action Programme promoting non-governmental organisations primarily active in the field of environmental protection (COM(2001) 337 - C5-0281/2001 - 2001/0139(COD)) (Parliament approved the legislative resolution) - Report (A5-0346/2001) by Diemut Theato, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the appointment of nine Members of the Court of Auditors ((C5-0282/2001 - 2001/0808(CNS) C5-0283/2001 - 2001/0809(CNS) C5-0284/2001 - 2001/0810(CNS) C5-0285/2001 - 2001/0811(CNS) C5-0286/2001 - 2001/0813(CNS) C5-0287/2001 - 2001/0814(CNS) C5-0288/2001 - 2001/0815(CNS) C5-0290/2001 - 2001/0812(CNS) C5-0291/2001 - 2001/0816(CNS)) Theato (PPE-DE), rapporteur. (DE) Mr President, I would like to make a few short remarks on the procedure.
In accordance with Article 247 of the Treaty, the Council has on this occasion, after consulting Parliament, to appoint nine members of the Court of Auditors.
In accordance with rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Budgetary Control, being the competent committee, was entrusted by the President of Parliament with the examination of the nominees to the Court of Auditors.
On 10 September and 8/9 October, these examinations took place in public session.
The result of the examination and the secret ballot that then took place was that we had voted in favour of all nominated members and also recommend them to this House.
Mr President, I see from Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure that procedure without debate applies when the committee responsible has not tabled any amendments or when all the amendments for deliberation have been adopted with no more than three Members voting against them.
Therefore the vote will go ahead. (In successive votes Parliament adopted the nine resolutions) Report (A5-0318/2001) by Didier Rod, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a Council recommendation on the prudent use of antimicrobial agents in human medicine (COM(2001) 333 - C5-0411/2001 - 2001/2164(COS)) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, resistance to antimicrobial agents now causes hundreds of thousands of deaths the world over.
But we now know that one of the true causes of the current situation in Europe is the incorrect use of antibiotics and over-consumption, not only in the field of human medicine but also in animal feed.
I am sorry to interrupt you, as rapporteur, but it is not correct for a rapporteur to start making a speech before we take a vote.
If you have something pertinent to say about the vote, we will listen to you.
But if it is not to do with voting procedure I suggest to you that, as rapporteur, you have already had your opportunity of speaking to the substance of the debate.
Report Theato (A5-0346/2001): - (DA) The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of appointing nine new members of the Court of Auditors.
We were bitterly disappointed in this respect, both in terms of some of the Member States and in terms of the majority of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
A Member State that puts forward a candidate simply on the basis of a long political career, without the relevant candidate having qualifications in the area of accounts, should hang its head in shame.
But also in other areas, the level of candidates was very diverse.
Since this has not happened in a few cases, we have given some the benefit of the doubt, but we were unable to give the weakest candidates our vote.
We therefore abstained from voting on this report.
Report Schmidt (A5-0324/2001): Mr President, I have made so many speeches that I have lost my voice.
Report Jensen (A5-0319/2001): Mr President, the Pensioners' Party voted for the Jensen report.
Developing, programming, monitoring and assessing the European employment strategy with the involvement of the social partners and local and regional authorities are important and essential objectives for fully and effectively achieving the strategic ambitions defined at the Lisbon European Council.
It is, therefore, crucial that cooperation between Member States is improved with regard to exchanging experiences and information and identifying best practices in addition to the involvement of the social partners and local and regional authorities, not forgetting the implementation of an active and transparent public information policy that takes account of the public' s requirements for transparency.
One particularly praiseworthy aspect of this report is the attention it pays to the promotion of equal opportunities for men and women in the employment and labour markets.
Report Ghilardotti (A5-0325/2001): Mr President, I voted for the Ghilardotti report.
The result is a wonderful report: the European Union calls for pensioners to be kept better informed; the European Union wants improved consultation of pensioners.
Unfortunately, the amendments proposed by the rapporteur and approved by the Committee of Employment and Social Affairs goes totally against the spirit of co-operation achieved up to now.
I also welcome Parliament's insistence on the rapid implementation of this directive for all Member States, whatever the current state of employee representation.
The call to increase the EU's fund for job creation comes at a time when the EU is attempting to coordinate its employment strategies by the so-called open method of coordination.
Moreover, the report also recognises the valid and worthwhile role that local and regional authorities can play in the process of job creation.
It is only when we work with such authorities, who have vital in-depth knowledge of regional employment needs and peculiarities at their disposal, that we shall be able to reap the potential benefits outlined in this report.
Report Thorning-Schmidt (A5-0320/2001): Mr President, the pensioners who sent me, Mr Carlo Fatuzzo, here include a large number of people who have become ill as a consequence of exposure to mechanical vibrations throughout their working lives.
Although this proposal for a directive makes some welcome amendments to certain aspects of Community legislation, it represents a reductive and inadequate view of the implementation of the Aarhus Convention, which has already been ratified by all of the European Union' s Member States.
Nevertheless, its contribution to the implementation of the Aarhus Convention in the Member States is very small, as is the implementation of the Convention in procedures and decisions at Community level.
The proposals contained in the Korhola report do, by and large, improve the document, although they do not sufficiently resolve all the shortcomings of the proposal for a Directive, which is why we have also voted in favour of other proposals that extend the report' s proposal, thereby helping to ensure that an opportunity is not wasted in the complex process of implementing the Aarhus Convention.
This includes public participation and the drawing up of certain plans and programmes, greater participation in the procedure concerning the implementation of environmental impact assessment statements as well as in the putting in place of integrated pollution prevention and control measures.
Annex 1 of the Directive lists the instruments in relation to which the public for the first time are be given the opportunity to participate in the drawing up of plans and programmes.
The main thrust of this directive is to ensure that information must be made available to the public within a reasonable timeframe.
The public must be given the opportunity to express comments and opinions before decisions are made.
It is important that the citizens of Europe are involved in decisions that are taken at a European Union level.
We are also all aware of the environmental proofing of EU regulations and directives which is now constantly taking place.
We must ensure that there is a balance between the protection of our environment and economic progress at all times.
This proposal, the first of its kind, could see everyday citizens involved in and having say about issues ranging from air quality to the protection of water.
The report makes concrete and practical recommendations as to how public participation in this domain can be realised; for example, information must be made available within a reasonable time-frame.
In addition, citizens would be entitled to submit their comments either orally or in writing.
The report addresses many of the tricky issues that have faced decision-makers since the demonstrations at Seattle, Stockholm and Genoa: it could lead to greater transparency and accountability since citizens could act as both a check on decision-makers' complete autonomy and they could be more informed of the decisions which are being taken in their name.
Inequality in access to adequate means of assessment for small and local voluntary groups compared with the resources of large corporations or public authorities is an important issue and must be taken into consideration.
I therefore voted for the report.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of this report because we agree that the EU should develop cooperation in the area of civil law for the benefit of EU citizens.
Report von Boetticher (A5-0333/2001): Mr President, I voted for the second von Boetticher report.
Our vote expresses our opposition to a Europe built for capital, and not for individuals.
Simply because the theory of the euro having a stabilising effect, like that of the euro having a destabilising effect, was based on the same hypothesis, namely that the euro was to quickly become the second international currency, next to, if not equal to, the dollar.
If the European Union had not obeyed those with dogmatic views, if we had gradually developed the ECU whilst respecting the national currencies, the process would have been safer and more straightforward.
In spite of the recent attacks, the good health of the latter also seems to be further evidence of this.
Finally, a majority in Parliament, either inattentive or complacent, rejected many constructive amendments, including the creation of an Economic and Social Security Council, the need for better representation of all continents in global financial institutions, and the need to restrict financial transactions with Member States and off-shore centres which do not abide by even minimal international regulations.
The reason that I abstained was in order to highlight this, as I did not wish to counter the few positive effects that can still be found in the resolution after the report has foundered.
As the report points out, between 1975 and 2000, the world has gone through some 120 monetary crises, which the IMF defines as depreciation of a currency by more than 25% in the course of a year.
Regrettably, however, even in the knowledge that every such crisis involves enormous costs for the countries involved, as happened in the Asian crisis in the summer of 1998, the report offers no basic measures that could prevent the emergence of new crises with any degree of effectiveness.
However, I did not vote against the report, in order to support two specific requests, which we see as fundamental.
In spite of all these reservations, these proposals are heading in the right direction and I do not wish to stand in their way.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, guided by the 'guidelines for the 2002 budgetary process' , approved on 3 April, Parliament has attached particular importance to improving the efficiency of the European institutions, with particular emphasis, in this field, on the Commission reform that is currently underway and on the quality of the budget' s implementation.
At the same time, and with a view to improving the monitoring of the budget' s implementation, we expect the Commission to produce a definition of clear objectives for implementation and a timetable for this, and we will see how the timetable is being respected in the course of the year by means of sources of information that are now being made available.
This is also related, as you all know, to a set of horizontal amendments, in other words, amendments that cover the whole budget proposed by the Committee on Budgets, and which are designed to provide an real reduction in the RAL, greater speed in making payments and also increased operational spending rather than administrative spending.
Along the same lines, we state once again our intention to only decide on the basis of the most complete information and, consequently, we hope to have the following information supplied by the Commission soon: on the one hand, and most importantly, the study examining the impact of the various measures that have already been adopted in the field of agriculture under the reforms laid down in Agenda 2000, as well as their budgetary consequences and also those of the BSE and foot-and-mouth crises, in addition to the prospects for changes to the agricultural budget.
The European Parliament cannot be a budgetary authority in name only.
I think that we all accept that the situation arising from 11 September has changed many aspects of world policy and therefore, since the budget acts as a mirror for this policy and reflects this policy, there are bound to be budgetary consequences for the new situation.
We see these consequences chiefly affecting refugees, and the tragic problem they create, but they also affect concerted action in terms of the European Union' s external policy.
The budget must accommodate them although they must not endanger other commitments already given by the European Union.
We have the greatest respect for the 1999 provisions on the financial perspective but we also have great respect for social and political dynamics and where political dynamics are concerned, we cannot fail to draw the necessary conclusions.
We also have great expectations of the report to be drafted by the Secretaries-General of the institutions on the multiannual study of administrative spending on preparations for enlargement.
We even feel that, as a natural consequence of this work at a technical level, it could then be followed up at political level, with cooperation between the two branches of the budgetary authority.
Continuing with a different type of issue, but which is also pending, in the case of the Commission' s proposal, we are waiting for the drafting, in the very near future, of the proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument that will ensure the means necessary for the conversion of the fishing fleets that were dependent on the old Fisheries Agreement with Morocco.
It is also worth making special mention here of the intention to support the competitiveness of Member States' border regions in the context of the forthcoming enlargement, as well as extending the benefits of the Leader programme to cover the future Member States.
All of these aspects are considered, in our guidelines, in the proposals for amendments that we have tabled on the budgetary proposals, and in the comments that we have included on the budgetary proposals.
I know that this is something that the Member States often attempt to avoid, but the fact is that, if we want to see more effective European institutions, if, furthermore, we want their actions to have greater credibility, and if we want to see their results being more successful, we must have the necessary means to make payments.
What we cannot, of course, accept now is something that we have never accepted in the past: a dialogue of the deaf, in which some people state their wishes and other people accept what some people say they wanted.
The Treaty of Amsterdam stipulated a maximum of 700 seats; we are now sentenced to 732 seats and the buildings are not designed to cope with this number.
An example of a totally different nature is the Balkans.
For example, the situation in heading 5 has changed dramatically since the Berlin Agreement because, in those days, no consideration was given to, for example, developments in the second pillar, the common foreign and security policy, the third pillar, Eurojust, Europol, or expenses for the European data protection supervisor.
A second subject on which I should like to ask the Council to adopt a positive stance, quite apart from the annual budget discussion, is our request to consider how we want to give the taxpayer more value for money.
During that trilogue too, Parliament talked in that context about setting up a political working party, which will enable us jointly to examine how we can give more value for money for, each year, we discuss the nuts and bolts and minor changes to the budget, but the institutions, once they are up and running, are not subject to thorough reviews as far as their objectives and working methods are concerned.
Despite this, we should have the courage to move away from the way things have developed and question, once again, whether all the institutions, for example, all the agencies, should continue to exist in that way.
Until such time, and until the seat issue has been solved in another way, we really are stuck with two buildings that need to be altered to cope with a larger number of MEPs.
The Bureau has drawn up a three-year plan which serves as an indicative framework for expenses related to enlargement.
The other institutions, too, are working hard to ensure that the effects of enlargement are ironed out, and we cannot wait for these adjustments until 2004.
The Committee on Budgets has noted that, by means of rigid budget management, it is possible, in the coming year, to remain within the self-imposed maximum of 20% in the category of administrative expenditure, although we have always said that enlargement and buildings do not fall within this maximum.
Even if the other institutions implement their plans in preparation for enlargement, and even if Parliament faces higher costs because, by that stage, preparations will have got well and truly under way, in my opinion it will then be difficult to remain within the established ceiling.
You will have gathered by now that I am greatly irritated by the Council' s stance, and despite this, I shall try to mention a few other elements from my report.
I am delighted that the institutions reacted in a quietly positive manner to the request by the Committee on Budgets to take part in EMAS, the EU' s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme.
We are therefore to debate the last ECSC budget, now, with expenditure to cover the period up until 23 July of next year.
It has been estimated that around EUR 45 million in earnings per annum will be available for these purposes.
In many countries the industry has social problems associated with it, and, consequently, the Committee on Budgets has decided to propose that EUR 16 million more than the Commission originally recommended should be paid in adjustment aid to Great Britain, Ireland and Belgium with regard to the special problems associated with their steel industries.
The ECSC' s resources have been used to finance important research.
For example, early next year EUR 72 million will still be channelled into research.
That is a considerable sum compared with the EUR 45 million that represents the earnings from the ECSC' s net assets that will be used for research.
The Commission is charging quite a sum in compensation for earnings from ECSC funds under the guise of managing the investment of the ECSC assets and allocating money for research: EUR 3.5 million a year.
That will pay the salaries of more than 30 officials employed to manage the ECSC' s remaining functions.
If the Treaty of Nice is not in force next July, there will be no legal basis for any subsequent management of the estate.
The Commission must adopt a position on this swiftly.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time, you will be voting at first reading on the amendments to the draft budget as it was drafted by the Council in July.
I hope that this dialogue will be fruitful, so that we can reach an agreement which is satisfactory to everyone, but particularly to the European citizens, of course.
A few days after your first reading, the overall structure will be in place and the different positions will be known.
This draft budget is able to fund all policy components and priorities of the European Union, without imposing too great a burden on the Member States that work towards achieving stricter control of government finances.
At the same time, however, notably under the ceilings of heading 3 of the financial perspectives and of heading 4, it creates some leeway for coping with new priorities.
As you know, the Council did not adopt the Commission' s proposal at first reading and has asked the Commission for a detailed analysis of the requirements.
During the conciliation meeting of 20 July, Parliament sided with the Council, and I have every faith that, once we have discussed the letter of amendment which the Commission will be sending us shortly, we will reach an agreement through which we will be able to cushion the effects of the different crises.
When we analyse the final appropriations to be included in the 2002 budget, we must obviously take account of the most recent data in the letter of amendment concerning agricultural expenditure.
I should now like to turn to a second point which, according to the Interinstitutional Agreement, is also pertinent, in the framework of the letter of amendment which the Commission will be sending us shortly, namely the financial implications of the delay in the fisheries agreement with Morocco, together with the funding and restructuring of the fishing fleet in question.
I would remind you that the appropriations for international fisheries agreements, in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement, fall within compulsory expenditure, whether they are indicated in the budget line or in the reserve.
As for the letter of amendment, to which some of our discussions in the coming weeks will relate, I should like to note that the Council expects a balance estimate for the 2001 budget year to be included.
I know how much importance the European Parliament attaches to the expenditure under heading 3 of the financial perspectives.
That is why the Council has ensured that its draft budget sufficiently covers the priorities of the EU' s internal policy, notably the honouring of commitments concerning the funding of multi-annual programmes, in respect of which both our institutions have taken a decision.
I would also point out that, at first reading, the Council increased appropriations in its draft budget in order to launch Eurojust and the SISII system for Schengen.
The Commission had proposed the budget lines for this in its preliminary draft.
In the current climate, these objectives are more topical than when we compiled the draft budget back in July.
In this way, the Council has created a margin of EUR 110 billion which is wider than the margin in the Commission' s preliminary draft budget.
I would now like to turn my attention to the funding of the EU' s external measures, as included in heading 4 of the financial perspectives.
The Council has largely followed the Commission' s preliminary draft budget.
For example, the Council has created a margin of EUR 100 million under the ceiling of heading 4 of the financial perspectives, which should enable us to shore up the priorities in this sector.
I very much regret the fact that, during the conciliation meeting of 20 July involving the European Parliament and the Council, an agreement was still not reached with regard to the level of appropriations to be included.
That is why the Council has adopted the amounts in its draft budget which the Commission proposed in its preliminary draft.
The wish to reduce these amounts at such a crucial time as in the current international crisis could particularly harm the EU' s credibility.
Despite this, I am of the opinion that each of the institutions represented here are acutely aware of the pressure which the ceilings of heading 5 are under.
The Council continues to support the reforms on which the Commission is working, and agreed at first reading to the creation of 78 new offices requested by the external delegations in the framework of decentralisation.
First of all, I am delighted that the European Parliament and the Commission share the Council' s concern as to the commitments outstanding (in our Community jargon also known as the 'RAL' ).
The progress report of 30 June 2001, requested by the Commission in the framework of the previous budgetary procedure, is certainly useful in this connection.
However, I should like to point out that the vast increase in payment appropriations is not a cure-all for RAL absorption.
It is my wish for the budgetary discussions, after you have cast your votes in a couple of days, to be continued in the same spirit and, if possible, for agreement to be reached as early as November about a budget of the European Communities for the 2002 budget year which will provide us with the resources to meet the priorities and challenges which the European Union will be facing shortly.
Anyone who has seen the mountains of amendments that the Committee on Budgets again had to get to grips with this year, will know what is meant by hard committee work.
Of course, I know that the Belgian Presidency of the Council is endeavouring to pass a good EU Budget, which will fulfil all requirements.
I thank you, Mr Vande Lanotte, for re-emphasising in your speech this aspect - the willingness to negotiate - for I believe that this demand must also be addressed to the Council, that flexibility is necessary in negotiations and that what is said in the various sittings must not be merely a repetition of what was decided by governments in the capitals.
The Commission's preliminary draft for the budget, which we presented at the end of May, planned for a EUR 1 billion reserve to facilitate a response to the demands of the BSE crisis and foot-and-mouth disease.
At this point, I must however state quite clearly that agriculture ministers must not take this margin to mean that there is plenty of scope for every kind of shiny new expenditure package; this year has shown how quickly such a margin can be required for things which could not have been planned for.
I might mention in passing that I welcome the fact that the Committee on Budget's various amendments and resolutions show its desire to look into the agricultural sector more deeply, including with regard to the Midterm Review, which is due next year.
You have now, in this Parliament, come to the logical conclusion and said that a new stage in the programme is to be set up, in particular to finance information for the agricultural sector about the EU's future agricultural policy.
On this point I must also address a few words to the Council: In your first reading of the preliminary draft of the Budget, you made substantial cuts in the means of payment for the pre-accession aid packages.
Of course we all know that the frontier regions, the regions that are at present situated on the borders of the European Union, will profit in the long term from the enlargement of the EU, because they will at last be frontier regions no longer.
The Budget provides for an additional EUR 150 million to be made available for transport infrastructure measures in the frontier regions and for a further EUR 15 million for cooperation with small and medium-sized enterprises, an additional EUR 20 million from the INTERREG programme and EUR 10 million more from the youth programme, in order to promote this programme for school students' exchanges and so on in the perspective of enlargement.
I have to say, with the benefit of hindsight, that this was an excellent idea of Parliament's, as a great deal can now be done with this programme.
As a result of this, we presented a claim for 717 new posts.
It has 189 established posts.
The Scoreboard for more intensive cooperation in judicial matters decided on in Tampere, is really not a bad thing.
The post-11 September situation has now shown that it is in the field of more intensive judicial cooperation that joint action is required.
I wish to thank you for your support for the Commission's reforms as a whole, which you have reiterated here today.
This was true when we had to work together to find the wherewithal for the reconstruction of Kosovo and incorporate it into the 2000 Budget.
We will be presenting to Parliament the relevant proposal for a transfer, in order to use the fisheries reserve, which is still in this Budget, for this purpose among others.
When we sat together in our three-way talks last week, you supported making EUR 25 million from the emergency humanitarian aid reserve available for Afghanistan, EUR 7.5 million for Palestine and EUR 7.5 million for the Caucasus region.
The Commission has proposed EUR 35 million for it.
Parliament proposed its reduction by EUR 14 million.
I believe we have to talk about the fundamentals of how future finance for the common foreign and security policy is to be secured, quite independently of the 2002 Budget.
We must also consider the people's expectations in this area when we really thoroughly discuss, investigate and then define, what we want to do in future.
To return to the Budget for 2002: the Commission had until now envisaged a EUR 125 million reserve for the fisheries agreement with Morocco.
I know we are going to need this money.
The European Union will be providing a total of over EUR 310 million.
Looking back over two years as Budget Commissioner and on two years of Budget discussions with Parliament and the Council, I can truly say that the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission have together managed to meet well the demands made on the European Budget, and I am very optimistic that we will achieve this again for 2002.
Mr President, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy would like to remind you that we are at the first reading stage, which, although this seems obvious at first sight, makes it clear that many of the balances and agreements we must achieve will be of a general nature and will have repercussions upon the final appropriations under this heading.
I understand that this is not an exercise in revising financial perspectives, but we cannot continually take on new priorities to the detriment of the commitments that the European Union has already made.
Mr President, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has given its opinion: we want to strengthen the Commission' s administrative reform policy, particularly with regard to the decentralised management of external aid.
The Council recommended that only five new staff be granted and various positions have been taken on the additional staff requested and the money for them.
However, in the Committee on Budgets a completely different amendment was tabled.
We have looked at the implementation figures and we will continue to look at them in the future and use them for future amendments to the budget.
You have our full backing on everything you have done in getting better information on implementation for us so far.
As permanent rapporteur for the agencies, I can say at the present time that the most acute problems have been resolved with the help not only of our colleagues in the Committee on Budgets, but also that of the general rapporteur.
Speaking on behalf of the Committee on Industry, I am disappointed with the outcomes in this budget because many of the priorities which we highlighted have been totally ignored.
The third area in which the Committee on Industry will be retabling amendments is the decommissioning of weapons of mass destruction, and waste management.
This is even more critical in the light of the recent atrocities of 11 September and to ensure that states have a proper strategy for dismantling chemical weapons so that there are no opportunities for these weapons to fall into the wrong hands.
I would urge the rapporteur to rethink and support these amendments.
This year, as she said, Heading 5 was under tremendous pressure for a number of reasons, including the preparation for the forthcoming enlargement.
My group's efforts have been to continue to improve effectiveness, efficiency and transparency.
We have demonstrated our commitment to improving efficiency by staying under Parliament's 20% self-imposed ceiling, whilst absorbing the costs of preparations for enlargement of some EUR 18 million.
However, this will be extremely difficult in the coming years.
This is a shame because enlargement offers a real opportunity to make Parliament more dynamic in its operation.
Some of the ideas outlined in this plan need to be developed further and we need to have a broader view of how things are done.
We must address this issue because it causes us fundamental problems in terms of the image of Parliament.
I hope that will also benefit transparency in the way it works.
Looking back historically, we are doing a better job every year and this is certainly due partly to the work done by the rapporteurs.
Nevertheless, I am pleased to see that the Committee on Budgets has supported the view of Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in restoring some of the budget lines which we are particularly concerned with, at least to the level of the PDB.
Also, it is worth mentioning that we look with approval upon the work that was done in terms of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets with regard to the tobacco subsidies.
I am pleased that the Committee on Budgets acknowledges this.
We are pleased about the restoration to an appropriate level of that budget line and we hope the Commission will also defend that point of view to the Council.
This sector therefore needs possible alternatives not only to be examined, but also offered.
Please, Commissioner, let there be no fear of a new implementation along the lines of LEADER.
Failure to conclude a new fisheries agreement with Morocco has led to an explosive situation along the Spanish and Portuguese coasts, an area which is already facing major social problems in connection with illegal immigration.
It is for that reason that the Committee on Fisheries has asked for nearly EUR 200 million in order to be able to tackle these problems.
In the capacity as shadow rapporteur of the PPE-DE Group for the agricultural budget, I note that, of the original request for EUR 1 billion extra for food safety and animal disease control, eventually 580 million was left over, but what we say is: better some of a pudding than none of a pie.
Mr President, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on behalf of whom I am speaking, put forward ten or so amendments to the draft budget with regard to the four Community initiatives (URBAN, INTERREG, EQUAL and LEADER), for safety and sustainability in transport and tourism.
The World Tourism Organisation anticipates a doubling in the number of tourist arrivals up to a figure of approximately 720 million per year by the year 2020.
The 9 million people who already work in the tourism industry will be joined by a further 2 to 3.5 million between now and 2010, to reach 12.5 million people employed.
The Committee on Budgets, however, rejected our proposals.
I trust that the majority of my fellow Members here will have the sensitivity necessary to support this reaffirmed proposal with their vote.
The second new feature is connected with sport, which still does not have a legal basis in the Union.
Sport is mentioned, however, in the Treaty of Amsterdam, and the conclusions of the Nice Summit stressed its social importance.
The Committee on Budgets has approved a proposal for a EUR 5 million appropriation for sports club work to prevent exclusion amongst youth.
Chapter A-30 again caused problems.
I am very disappointed with the work of the Committee on Budgets in item A-3042, which concerns the funding of European cultural organisations.
We took the Commission' s report on the funding of organisations into account as well as the recommendations of the Committee on Budgets' working party.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Vande Lanotte, I would like to draw your attention to the three amendments tabled by Parliament' s Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
The aim of these amendments is to enhance the information given to citizens and to stimulate the debate on issues relating to the future of the European Union, pursuant to Declaration 23 of the Treaty of Nice.
The aim of Amendment No 223 is to restore the commitment appropriations granted to the Prince-Programme, as proposed by the Commission in its preliminary draft budget.
All these subjects are extremely topical.
We also believe that it would be counter-productive to enter, as suggested by the Committee on Budgets, a part of these appropriations into a reserve.
We know that using the appropriations entered in the reserve is a much more complicated procedure, and we see no reason why the Commission' s room for manoeuvre should be hampered in this area.
Lastly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also expressed its support for maintaining, and even increasing the financial support given to the European Movement.
Furthermore, all Member States should support European Union day, which is organised for 9 May, as this would greatly contribute to developing the rapport with the public that is severely lacking.
Mr President, since the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, both the powers of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities and, in particular, European Union policies that promote equality of the sexes, in which particular emphasis is given to the Community programme for equal opportunities as a fundamentally important instrument in the struggle for equality, have been strengthened, as have the Daphne programme against domestic violence, and the Equal programme to encourage the incorporation of women into the labour market and compliance with the employment objectives of the Lisbon Summit, to name but a few.
A small proportion has been rejected, because it was already included in other budget lines: information actions in the common agricultural policy; methods to combat exclusion; the information society; the fight against poverty and the illnesses that arise as a result of it: malaria, tuberculosis, AIDS; care in the field of health and welfare; consolidation of democracy and human rights, etc.
Aid for women' s organisations that work for the promotion of women in the European Union should also be pointed out, not only the women' s lobby, but also other organisations that monitor the respect for pluralism in our society.
We cannot affirm that one sole organisation represents all of Europe' s women.
Deep in the Buitenweg report is Amendment No 2022 on Budget Line 250 and this makes a new proposal to allow in certain circumstances, individual expenses to be paid to particular petitioners if they feel it appropriate to come to Parliament to put their case.
I want to thank the rapporteur for accepting this report and the committee for passing it.
We are pleased about the role played by the ECSC as a pioneer in the European integration process and about the way in which the ECSC has made a positive contribution to peace in Europe.
I do not understand why, when I am the official draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, when I prepared the amendments tabled by my Committee, when I arranged the vote on these in my Committee, when I defended them, rather vigorously at times, in the Committee on Budgets - where, in most cases, I also managed to obtain the approval of my fellow Members - why, therefore, my name is not on the list of draftsmen due to speak.
President, our spokesman will be speaking for our Group later, but I also have a few comments to make at this stage.
In referring to the Costa Neves Report, I should like, first of all, to congratulate the rapporteur on having focused on the progress report, on what had been done in terms of following up on the Joint Council/Parliament Declaration at the end of last year which has shown its worth in our budgetary procedure.
Firstly, in terms of agriculture: we do not believe in having a reserve - we already have some money which has already been made available and a letter of amendment on its way, and I feel that it is quite sufficient.
Secondly, we believe that in information policy there is a continuing problem: every time we see Commission proposals come through without the interinstitutional working groups, we as a Parliament have to put them back on the information policy lines.
Thirdly, in terms of the food safety agency - I noted that was raised in the European Council in Ghent - I would remind the President-in-Office (instead of laughing, he might listen to parliamentarians when they are speaking) that Parliament's position is that the money will stay in reserve until we are satisfied about the operations and the location of this agency.
I would like you to confirm in any future remarks that it will be open to us - that is a critical point for our Group as we wish to see it applied across all institutions.
Secondly, how can a career structure retaining four different categories meet the objectives of a linear career structure with progression on merit as strongly supported by Parliament?
Mr President, I do not want to repeat things, so I will stick to just a handful of points - although James Elles has stolen some of the thunder from my speech with his last two points.
I hope so too because on 20 July, at the last conciliation, we agreed virtually nothing.
As for the situation regarding the margins, which the President-in-Office also mentioned, there will not be much of a margin left by the time we vote on Thursday.
The Council cannot ignore these categories as though there were no problems.
At times it seems it is like an ostrich with its head stuck in the sand trying to ignore all the problems around it.
On the issue of reform, James Elles has just touched on a very significant point.
Realistically, it is now left with the Council: almost three years have passed since the resignation of the Commission, and we still have not seen the reform that everyone is looking for.
As we are all aware, the Commission will be bringing forward proposals to finance that from this year's budget, taking EUR 60 million from the general budget and EUR 60 million from the EDF.
I would hope that the situation that we found ourselves in this time will give us the courage for next year to make proposals which envisage a more transparent system.
The Commission will take the decisions instead of Parliament.
I hope we can get some sort of an agreement within Parliament on how we handle A-30 in the future.
Finally, I want to make a plea to the Council and to repeat what I said in conciliation and at the recent trialogue.
The budget' s general lines include cancelling the cut in agricultural expenditure, attending to arrears in payments, and the Commission' s reform.
One particular focus in the budget is the reduction in payment arrears.
My group supports this goal.
Heading 4 is difficult.
The Commission and the Council are proposing EUR 125 million for the Moroccan fishing agreement, although this agreement is not forthcoming.
On the other hand, our group cannot accept the cut of EUR 84 million in the CARDS Programme.
We cannot, on the one hand, build up expectations in areas such as the Structural Fund or overseas aid, but then live up to them only with great hesitation.
This action is particularly problematic in Category IV, foreign policy.
I am perfectly aware of the fact that there is a great deal of pressure on the time available to us, but every individual item in this field in particular must be politically justifiable even to people outside this Parliament.
As the GNP for the EU Member States has grown faster than the increase in payment appropriations, the amount the EU budget represents in the figure for combined GNP has shrunk to 1.03%.
The permitted ceiling in the EU budget is 1.27% of the combined GNP for the Member States.
The EU budget is a political document, as it channels money to the EU lite bodies, and now also to the European political parties and for EU propaganda.
In this first reading, our group supports many of the choices made by the rapporteur, such as the horizontal amendments, in principle, and particularly when this involves a systematic reduction of the RAL and the desire to prevent further RAL from building up.
As for agriculture, almost all of the appropriations for this sector have been restored, and this can only reassure our farmers, who are greatly in need of these funds.
As far as internal policies are concerned, the interests of small- and medium-sized businesses are safeguarded, and Parliament can welcome the increase in appropriations that aim to combat violence against women and children, such as paedophilia and misuse of the Internet.
This advertising, for which the citizens of our countries pay a high price, seems to be nothing more than propaganda.
Furthermore, Europol is funded by national contributions, and, in our view, has no place in this budget.
I am alarmed by the fact that this diversity of opinions is not reflected in many European projects.
Those concerns were recently intensified when the Committee on Budgets rejected an amendment tabled by our Conservative English MEPs to inject impartiality into the Commission' s information policy.
Promoting European political parties will only further alienate the citizen from European politics.
The fundamental choice which I, apart from all the positive things, miss in this budget, is that of prioritising the EU' s core tasks and leaving the other tasks where they belong: with the Member States.
We must not, though, in doing this, forget the 23 frontier regions which will be particularly - even adversely - affected by the accession of these countries.
I am sorry that the Commission, the Council, and also the Committee on Budgets are not giving these regions adequate support by allocating sufficient budget resources.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if, today, we are discussing at first reading stage the Community budget for the coming year, we are of course talking about politics coated with figures.
We want to exert pressure on the Council - those who have spoken before me have pointed out how urgently that is needed - but also on the Commission, because many points have not yet been given the consideration they deserve.
So I hope that we will succeed, here in this Parliament on Thursday, in adopting the inclusion of EUR 10.8 million in the reserve for the PRINCE programme.
The same goes for the issue of the 317 new posts that the Commission has asked for.
We cannot have the situation where we briefly discuss the annual reports on the legislation in preparation if the Budget has, in principle, already been passed.
The same goes for Europol and Eurojust.
I wish to extend heart-felt thanks to the rapporteurs, in particular to Carlos Costa Neves and of course Mrs Buitenweg as well, for making our work together so pleasant.
We got a bit further with the Parliamentary budget in terms of truth and clarity.
We will, though, have to ensure - and this is a lesson from this year's Budget procedure - that all proposals for our Parliamentary budget are presented by the Bureau as early as May.
A procedure such as today's, with many important decisions being taken only in September and immediately before the discussions in the Committee on Budgets, is something we cannot accept.
I still have grave concerns about the state of health of our colleagues in the various institutions.
In conclusion, I really would like to ask - and Terry Wynn has already mentioned this to great effect - that we should now make progress in November on the issue of cooperation, so that, in December, we can adopt a proper and orderly Budget for 2002.
Only then will the citizens of the European Union be able to decide by their votes whether we, this Parliament, have done well or not.
The Council and the Commission must of course have a part in this process in future.
When it comes to the further development of the Financial Perspective, we will have to do some thinking about much more intensive and definite ways of meeting new challenges.
As I have said, we will support you, but we will also make demands.
The people who rely on us to give support when it is needed, will be able to rely on us in future too.
That starts in Category I, with the farmers who cannot change everything around from one day to another, but need a certain headstart.
We will make it our concern to meet and overcome the two great challenges presented in Category II.
There are other regions which really need more aid, with which we will be concerned.
What we want is to continue with what was begun last year, that is to say, the inclusion of people in society by means of access to the labour market.
People also have a right to social inclusion through training in modern information and communications technologies.
It is, in my experience, the first time that the rapporteur has not tampered with the financial perspectives.
I am thus in favour of the amendments which he has tabled in this connection, with only one exception: the increase in payment appropriations is rather extreme in my opinion.
Concerning the proposals to use the flexibility instrument in order to restructure the fishing fleet in Spain and Portugal, I am anxiously awaiting the Commission' s proposals.
The SAPARD payment periods must be extended to 2003.
The fact that the payment bodies have not yet been approved should not put those countries at a disadvantage.
Central Asia is an unstable region and has, since the outbreak of the war in Afghanistan, really been at the epicentre of world politics.
That is the reason why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we would like to increase the payment appropriations in budget line B7-524 from EUR 45 million to 60 million.
However, I should nevertheless like to draw your devoted and kind attention to these two important amendments and maybe, upon completion of this 2002 budgetary procedure, we could visit Semipalatinsk together to witness the disastrous effects of the nuclear insanity and to see how European money could be spent in a effective and useful manner.
Mr President, the proposals for 2002 confirm the trend of recent years to reduce the relative value of the Community budget, as can be clearly seen from the fact that the proposed amount is the lowest in the last decade; only 1.03% of GDP.
This also clearly highlights the absence of clear priorities and a coherent strategy for guaranteeing the proper funding of Community policies in various fields, specifically those of cooperation, agriculture and employment.
Let us hope that this does not lead to further cuts in cooperation such as those we saw last year.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur as well as the rapporteur for the other institutions.
I think that they have both done an excellent job.
I hope that his participation will bear fruit at second reading and even that, looking beyond the budget, it will have a positive effect on other very important budgetary issues, particularly the financial regulation.
I would simply like to make two comments on the rapporteur' s overall strategy.
The first comment concerns the RAL.
I therefore wonder whether or not this could be the time, perhaps - and I put this to the rapporteur, although I understand that it may be difficult at this late stage - to put money - and, in doing so, send out a political message - in the reserve for Afghan refugees.
Of course, this should be part of an overall strategy, which is perfectly justified, but I wonder whether or not, for this specific message, we could possibly change the strategy, in any case, at second reading.
It is a year in which the forecasts contained in the financial perspectives can be fully achieved.
Without decisive action by the European Parliament, it is going to be difficult to achieve an interinstitutional political commitment on improving the quality of expenditure, which has always been our priority.
The rapporteur has also presented both pro memoria in the budget lines for that restructuring, and also in relation to a programme for increasing the competitiveness of the border regions with a view to the enlargement of the Union.
Let us hope that between the first and second readings, the Commission will clarify the situation of this programme and the possible funding proposals.
Furthermore, we have the insoluble problem of the lack of financial resources in Category 4 for external action.
This problem threatens to tarnish budgetary procedure after budgetary procedure.
A very good example this year is the EUR 125 million for the never-signed fishing agreement with Morocco.
It has never been explained why the Commission included these appropriations in the reserve, but the true consequence is that the rapporteur has had to employ (and the political groups support him) a strategy of cuts in order to achieve the mobilisation of these fishing appropriations which were never used.
Honest interinstitutional cooperation must be based on recognition of the budgetary prerogatives of each of the institutions.
We in the European Peoples' Party consider essential to the good operation of the budgetary procedure, amongst other things, the harmonisation of legislative and budgetary procedures, the genuine participation of the European Parliament in the creation of the rules of the game, that is, the Financial Regulation, prior knowledge of the Commission' s working programme, more active involvement by Parliament in the budgetary element of the Commission reform, etc.
It is always difficult to strike a balance between, on the one hand, the desire to do important things and, on the other, the need to respect budget discipline and to ensure that taxpayers genuinely get value for money.
There are often considerable commitments made, but the level of implementation is low and the funding insufficient.
Indeed, a tenth of the whole budget is in practice paid back to the Member States.
In order to achieve this, I also believe that a new spirit of cooperation is needed between the two branches of the budgetary authority.
The increase of 5% over the outgoings of the Budget year 2001 corresponds to the Berlin agricultural guidelines.
The appearance of foot-and-mouth disease eleven months ago has meant a very unbalanced situation in animal husbandry, especially as regards food safety, animal protection and the internal market.
I urge that the so-called interim balance sheet of Agenda 2000 should not be put off simply to do a favour for a particular country.
In the few minutes' speaking time that I have, I will give one example; that of the B3-500 budget line, to which the European Parliament would like to allocate EUR 7 million in order to fund the so-called European political parties.
Their funding - provided thus far by the parliamentary groups of this House out of their administrative appropriations - has been the subject of a recent report published by the Court of Auditors.
Lastly, the draft regulation without legal basis and currently being examined by the Council aims to put in place an underhand funding system that runs counter to freedoms.
I support this, but would point out at the same time that we cannot, on the other hand, let a very restrictive approach in the next two years keep the remaining European fishing fleets at arms length and wasting away.
Let me say quite explicitly that the 25 July communication from the Commission on the frontier regions was held by Parliament, in its resolution of 5 September, not to comply with the requirements laid down by the European Council.
For that reason, Commissioner, we call upon the Commission to produce definite proposals for a regulation on the frontier regions.
We made 400 posts available in the 2001 Budget.
I will remind you, in addition to the points we have mentioned in connection with the release of the reserve, that we spent last year reiterating that reform includes the simplification of the acquis communautaire, without the Community patrimony being substantially affected thereby.
This is a comprehensive report which addresses all the problems of the final stage of the ECSC' s life, but it also takes into account the problems of the future, if it is true - which it is - that, although the ECSC is dying, the coal and steel industry must continue to develop in Europe.
Parliament wants to play a leading part in our endeavours to give a reassuring response to the 357 000 workers who are employed in the sector and to provide a secure future in terms of the growth and restructuring of the sector.
I would now like to focus, in the last part of my speech, on the Union' s general budget.
The austerity imposed on the Member States and the European Union as a whole means that even the budget lines available in the past have been cut back.
On the contrary, following the terrorist attack on 11 September, the European Union is being called on to fund intergovernmental cooperation in the so-called area of justice, that is, to keep files on and prosecute citizens who go beyond the bounds of resistance and reaction tolerated by the system.
Finally, the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece will vote against the budget because, instead of resolving the current problems, it will create new problems for workers, farmers and small enterprises, instead of contributing towards peace in the world, it promotes war and an imperialist hegemony, instead of protecting individual and collective democratic, political workers' rights, it suppresses them.
That is, for me, the sign of a rapporteur who, in a real sense, chooses to respect and apply the budget as a ceiling of expenditure and not as a target for expenditure.
In spite of this, there is nonetheless good cause for warning against an unduly expansive budget, especially when it comes to categories 3 and 4.
The European Union is already expensive for taxpayers.
I must however note that a very great deal remains to be done in order to prepare and adapt the administration before an enlargement that will soon be only two years ahead of us.
Mr President, at this stage in the litany of speakers, I feel I should focus on and scrutinise a couple of items in the budget.
If I had not lived through 17 European budgets, I would be amazed.
What really concerns me most in this budget, however, is that, in real terms, in euros, aid to third countries has decreased since 1999.
If one thing became clear after 11 September it was precisely that it is going to be necessary to maintain and develop humanitarian aid and our contribution to development aid.
We have Kosovo: we have to help Kosovo.
We still have a serious problem in Africa.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to reiterate that I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, and not on behalf of my political group, and that, consequently, I would like to know exactly what has happened and why I was not included on the list of draftsmen.
We asked for an increase in the funding granted to the European Refugee Fund, and this was given.
We asked for an increase in the resources for measures to combat violence towards women, children and teenagers, and this was given.
We have a specific research and evaluation programme on respect for fundamental rights of the European Union, so that the Charter of Fundamental Rights becomes an operational reality and not just a reality in words alone.
However, we would like to address a formal appeal to the Council not to allow these appropriations to escheat, to create the legal basis, which will enable Europol to become fully operational and will allow Eurojust to develop to its full potential.
Thank you very much, Mr Deprez.
Mr President, I am going to follow Mr Colom i Naval' s advice by speaking on the problem of reform, for which I am the permanent rapporteur.
This problem is quite fundamental, because we have to reiterate on a regular basis that the European Parliament is firmly in favour of administrative reform of the institutions.
You know that, in this budget, we noted several delays in implementing this reform, particularly as regards the Commission' s response - which we have yet to receive - on the rewriting of the financial regulation, and also with regard to setting up base management.
This is nothing more than a precautionary measure, and I would like to reiterate that, for the time being, this is only at the first reading stage as we asked the Commission to provide clarification on the implementation of the single Statute, so that we could have very precise and realistic answers, particularly on the problem of early retirement schemes for civil servants and temporary staff, but also on the problems caused by absenteeism and vacancies.
We therefore want a clear budgetary framework in order to adopt a position, and I shall repeat the request made by all the Committees of Parliament to the Council: the Council must start talking and give us answers on a regular basis so that all our procedures - and reform, in particular - progress within a framework that is efficient in terms of budget.
This reform is vital: it must not just look good on paper, but should also be realistic and applicable over time.
Mr President, Mrs Schreyer, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market devoted a great deal of attention to market integration in connection with the eastward enlargement.
The recommendations of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market make it clear that it advocates endowing the frontier regions programme that you, Commissioner, mentioned, with additional resources.
We are grateful to the Committee on Budgets and especially to the rapporteur for their accepting these suggestions and, in part, adding to them.
One point in particular is of importance to me: the instruments proposed by the Commission are not sufficient to strengthen competitiveness in the frontier regions, as they promote only cooperation between East and West rather than the specific situation of the frontier regions themselves.
They apparently considered our opinion as individual amendments tabled by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
I hope that this kind of procedure will run more transparently in future.
I also have to say that there are clearly fewer disagreements at the level of our committee, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
However, Parliament must rubber-stamp this budget, yet it is not allowed to let its voice be heard fully on that score.
So, as every year, we urge progressive reduction of tobacco subsidies and their replacement by increased aid for rural development with a view to alternative forms of income, which could benefit workers upstream and downstream in the regions.
As regards the agencies, it does indeed appear as if some agencies had already developed active lives of their own a long time ago.
We proposed estimates for funds to promote tourism in Europe.
This topic has taken on a whole new dimension since 11 September.
This situation is leading to major difficulties in the economy and putting jobs at risk.
I put it to the Council and the Commission that, if we are to discuss the consequences of 11 September next month, we should re-examine the question of what we are to do to promote tourism in Europe.
The director dealing with the case has also resigned - a replacement has been appointed - and, in addition, the Slovak parliament has just passed a new law on financial monitoring and internal auditing.
Mr President, I just want to raise two points this evening at the same time as praising the rapporteur for the very sensible and courteous manner in which he has run the budget in advance of next year.
The other matter is a perennial matter which comes up each year: the European women's lobby and finance for women's organisations generally.
This is wrong, we need to encourage new organisations in this very important field.
I have not known a Commissioner who has followed the proceedings so closely or who has spent so much time with the Committee on Budgets as the present Commissioner.
Of course, in many ways this is a highly technical exercise and, unlike national budgets, it does not have much effect on the course of economic development in the European Union.
Ireland, at the best, was getting 2%, Portugal and the poorer areas of Spain are getting between 1% and 2% of GNP.
I believe I said some years ago that compared to national parliaments we were like children playing shop.
The amount of resources at our disposal is so small and there is so little we can do with them, but there is one area that I would like to see developed.
But in the area of economic cooperation and development, if we could only pool at European level the resources which the countries of the European Union and the European Union itself devote to international cooperation and development cooperation, we could convert individual national efforts into a common European effort without increasing the sum of taxation.
I believe we could have a much greater impact on the development of the poorer countries and redirect our foreign policy in a way that we could help the poor, help to establish peace and give us real influence in the world.
If there is one area in which we should demand subsidiarity from the national states to the European Union, it is here.
Mr President, as in previous years, this debate is characterised by two elements which we could describe as endemic.
One relates to the general amounts and the other to the deficiencies in the rules on budgetary management.
With regard to the resources intended for external Union action, we demand that this Parliament' s undeniable political objectives are guaranteed, and these include providing resources for areas which are essential to world balance, such as the Mediterranean and Latin America.
In this procedure, the Commission proposes using the flexibility instrument to finance the restructuring of the Community fleets which fished in the area of the defunct fisheries agreement with Morocco.
It deals with a very serious problem which affects employment and a key activity of many regions, and which arises in a context of crisis.
We must therefore find rules which work, methods which allow faster implementation and rules which shorten the cycle of projects.
Mr President, I take the floor again not for a fine conclusion, but because I would like to give consideration to a few points addressed directly to the Commission, which I had not previously mentioned, or to which I would like to respond.
I am ready and willing to produce a special report for you on the extent to which the frontier regions are making use of the Structural Fund programmes for their particular problems and the extent to which there is also some need here for reorientation.
I repeat that the Structural Funds pose, at present, the greatest problem with regard to implementation.
We are talking about 2002; we are talking about enlargement taking place in 2004, which means that Member States, too, must implement the pre-accession aid packages in 2002/2003.
It concerns EUR 60 million from this special allocation intended for contributions to international initiatives.
Mr Nielson will propose that these EUR 60 million be allotted to the Global Health Fund.
We are working on the assumption that EUR 60 million can be paid out from the EDF's resources for 2002.
In order to take account of the changes Parliament would like to see made, our proposals will be submitted in time for the next plenary debate in Strasbourg.
I am still highly optimistic, for a certain amount of effort - above all by the Council - could mean that we may well still have the old Financial Regulation in 2002, but may be able to bring the 2003 Budget to a conclusion on the basis of a new Financial Regulation.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10.00 a.m.
The Commission endorsed the Council' s proposal, but it has not submitted a new proposal on the matter to Parliament.
Mr President, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy warmly supports the Council' s decision to grant a Community guarantee to the European Investment Bank against losses under a lending action for environmental projects in the Baltic Sea basin of Russia.
We note that the European Investment Bank has already begun negotiations concerning participation in projects for dealing with waste water from St Petersburg and Kaliningrad.
If we are neither to renege on our promises in the future nor to give up our new ambitions, the Council and the Commission will therefore have to review the guarantee reserve ceiling relatively soon.
I therefore wish to declare that I have a major interest in this issue and that the waste water from 3.5 million people has a very profound effect upon the environment and archipelago in my native Finland.
We have set a ceiling of EUR 100 million.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank Parliament for its willingness to adopt a report on this special instrument within the Union' s Northern Dimension.
This will provide a Community guarantee for EIB loans, to a value of EUR 100 million, for the purposes of environmental projects in Russia, as you have pointed out.
As you know, this decision was adopted in a very specific way.
This is the first time that financial operations in Russia have been accepted and the operation is not only of interest to Russia but also to the bordering Union countries.
The Commission had proposed the 65% guarantee normally considered for this type of operation laid down in the general mandate of the European Investment Bank.
However, we know that the Council, for a series of reasons relating to the unique nature of this operation and the need for greater transparency, suggested that in this case a special Community guarantee of 100% was required.
The urgency of the use of resources this year has led the Commission to accept this 100%.
I do not exactly know the procedural problems which have led to the information reaching Parliament excessively late, but, according to my information, the Council informed Parliament on 20 September of the amendments under consideration, on 12 October the Belgian Presidency explained the changes in greater detail and, on the same day, the Commission sent the Committee on Budgets information on the reasons why we were accepting the Council' s amendments.
We believe that it is urgent to approve this decision during 2001 for the same reasons you have raised.
Actions in 2000 and 2001 have already been financed and problems of this nature do not arise.
However, another longer-term problem does arise: how are we going to handle the funding capacity of the European Investment Bank within our lending mechanism?
Thank you very much, Mr Solbes.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The Chernobyl Shelter Fund was set up in December 1997 to finance the Shelter Implementation Plan, whose purpose it is to protect people and the environment from any new radioactive contamination.
The first conference of the parties funding the project was held in New York in November 1997.
A total of USD 400 million was obtained in the form of pledges from twenty-five countries, of which USD 50 million was payment in kind from Ukraine.
This amount came out of the general budget for 1998 - 1999.
The report being discussed concerns a proposal for a Council decision on a second contribution by the European Community to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Chernobyl Shelter Fund.
The problem here is that the budgetary authority in 1998 set a 13% ceiling regarding the use of TACIS appropriations in respect of nuclear safety projects.
All in all, I would nevertheless support this Council proposal, with certain amendments.
The European Union has been the largest donor by far, not just as regards Chernobyl but also with regard to safety and preventing the nuclear contamination of the Newly Independent States.
As Mr Virrankoski pointed out, the tomb of Chernobyl still contains 200 tonnes of uranium and a tonne of plutonium, which represent a permanent danger which might - and I stress, might - also be a prime target for traffickers.
However, this was and is still a transparent, legitimate choice in legal terms: indeed, the new Tacis regulation states that the contribution to the initiatives supported by the European Union, such as the initiative on the closure of Chernobyl, will be one of the nuclear safety priorities.
My second point is that it seems to us that the solution for implementation is not the European Development Bank, which guarantees neither control by Parliament nor affordable solutions, for Ukrainian firms are not considered when it comes to applying the resources.
To this end, the contribution of the European Union is essential.
You have said, quite rightly, that the scale of the disaster makes funding by a single country impossible.
According to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the promised contribution now amounts to approximately USD 720 million, and therefore, also according to the Bank' s assessments, the intended timetable and costs can be met, even though certain secondary activities may be delayed.
Furthermore, certain important steps have already been taken, such as the most urgent stabilisation work, which, undoubtedly, were a great concern.
With regard to the proposals of the Committee on Budgets, the Commission believes both proposals to be acceptable, and that they enrich the Commission' s proposal.
The debate is closed.
However, we have a unique opportunity, within the framework of the Commission communication on innovative measures under Article 6 of the European Social Fund, to approach innovation in the strategy for employment, rather than solely within the bounds of the application of new technologies.
In fact, innovative measures under Article 6 of the European Social Fund can play a vital role in increasing employment and enhancing regional and social cohesion, the sine qua non to our strategic objectives, and we must not just make use of them, we must also take action to make up for lost time and lost resources, because the guidelines for innovative measures were only finally adopted a full year after the adoption of the structural fund regulations, which made delays in implementation unavoidable.
We also find that social partners and social agencies are lacking in experience and face difficulties in their attempt to approach this concept and design innovative measures.
The social partners have an important role to play.
We particularly welcome your reference, Commissioner, to equal opportunities and believe that this principle should distinguish not just how men and women are treated but also access to the policy on innovative measures by regions which lack innovation and face particular structural problems, such as mountain and island regions.
The priority objective of the European Union, as laid down at the Lisbon Summit, is to turn the European Union into the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic development, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
Notable in this respect is the need to maintain the objective of equal opportunities, since the presence of women in the labour market is still insufficient.
The partnership between the different actors in the economy, as well as the choice of issues to be tackled, will help to achieve the proposed objective.
There is thus a major risk of the Commission backing useful actions which would also be implemented without ESF subsidy because national or local authorities have already recognised their usefulness.
The fact that there is still no assessment report on the innovative actions in the previous programming period (1994-1999) should ring alarm bells with the budgetary authority.
The first is optimising the application of Article 6 and the second is having the best, most efficient relations between the European Parliament and the Commission.
The first stage of the programme has already been announced with the call for proposals on the subject of adapting to the new economy within the framework of social dialogue.
This was announced in February 2001.
A second call for proposals on the subject of local strategies for employment and innovation is also ready and is due to be published at the end of October.
A large number of transnational plans was received in which social partners, trades unions and employers, as well as local authorities and companies played a very important part.
I think that Article 6 and its implementation could be a special item for the joint parliamentary and Commission committee on the European Social Fund, but there are other fora in which views can be exchanged.
Thank you very much, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, in this second reading I would like to present a legal report that is broad in scale.
I would like to thank my colleagues and the other political groups for the intensive, fruitful co-operation we have had prior to this second reading also.
Firstly, for the first time, the Commission has proposed binding action for the Member States to adopt in order to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace.
Now the European Parliament is repeating its demand, which the Council has not approved, that the Member States should oblige employers to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace.
As rapporteur, I have tabled an amendment in which I also want to emphasise that the unfavourable treatment of fathers must be declared to be discrimination forbidden under this directive.
I honestly have to say that the progressive Council common position came as a pleasant surprise after the botched first reading in this House, which my group had very little to do with.
I could even have lived with the text proposed by the Council.
Above all, it should not be overloaded with excessive verbiage that really has no place in a legal text which will have to be interpreted by the judges of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
We really had to use our powers of persuasion to convince the rapporteur not to include in the text the idea that not only any discrimination against women but also against men in connection with pregnancy or maternity should be regarded as discrimination in the context of this directive.
There is a directive dating from 1975 on equal pay for equal work or work of equal value.
We are calling on the Member States to take measures to ensure that employers promote equal pay for equal work in a planned and systematic way.
There is a French proverb that says 'Superflue, chose trs ncessaire' .
The report she is tabling today and upon which we are to vote tomorrow shows that Parliament has focused on the most important points, which will improve the common position, in order to achieve the adoption of the amendments to the directive with all speed.
Although the common position recognised Parliament' s position at first reading on a precise definition of direct and indirect discrimination - which we welcome - we feel that it is necessary - and this is an important amendment - to provide precise definitions of harassment, sexual harassment and the procedures for combating it, including preventive measures.
Moreover, it is necessary to make clear, as we have done, the concept of protection for victims, the extension of this protection to trade union representatives and the need for the bodies created to apply the principle of equality to be provided with adequate resources so that they can lend appropriate legal and other assistance to the victims of gender discrimination.
The Socialist Group will vote for all the amendments adopted in committee.
Many necessary improvements have been made to the measures against sexual intimidation and in connection with adoption leave and a woman' s right to return to her old job after maternity leave.
If the Commission and the Council are serious about the equal treatment of men and women, they would do well to adopt all these amendments.
I therefore hope that the others will also support us in this and that we indeed face a more equal future backed by a broad majority.
In order to protect women better after pregnancy, in those countries where this is regulated, fathers should be given the same protection as mothers, so that work and family life can be combined.
In recent years, the Commission has proved unable to draft a number of amendments to directives which are more tailored to the current needs of women.
In addition, I would now like to highlight several points that are new in these proposals for amendments.
In doing this, we recognise that there will not just be individuals faced with a law or faced with proceedings, but also bodies which can support these individuals.
Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her work.
For precisely this reason, we need not just to ensure that a woman has the right to resume her job when maternity leave comes to an end but, in order to genuinely protect working mothers, we need to be able to provide them with more flexible legislation on parental leave, allowing fathers to benefit from paternity leave too so that they can attend to the child during its first few months of life.
These Members have misunderstood the text, and personally speaking, I cannot tolerate a situation when we are criticised about paternal leave, because what is said on the right to parental leave - which we support, Mr President - is exactly what the Council says.
You must, in principle, wait until the end of the debates if you wish to make a personal statement, and you have limited speaking time.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the second reading of a directive which is important for the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women, in terms of access to employment, training, professional promotion and working conditions.
It has not been easy, but foremost has been the desire for a legal text which is a good instrument for providing women with equal access to the labour market under equal conditions and for allowing them to reconcile family and professional lives, which still causes women enormous problems, especially young women.
Not because it is an innovation, since it is included in most national legislations, but because, despite this, retaining jobs and continuing professional promotion after maternity are still creating enormous problems for women.
Also included are positive measures which promote the presence of the least-represented sex in a specific working sector, in order to allow greater equality between men and women.
Although we are aware that small companies may have problems complying with this directive, we believe that it is an important achievement for equality between men and women.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Hautala very sincerely for the enormous amount of work that we have achieved together here.
The anti-discrimination provisions of Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam and Articles 141 and 3 give us a clear legal basis for amending this directive now so as to improve the position of women.
I think that we now need to find some clearer wording.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Hautala for a good piece of work.
The present values also lead to large discrepancies in salaries between men and women.
I nonetheless think it is important to say that equal opportunities for men and women are not in actual fact only a women' s issue.
And in the knowledge that 314 votes must be attained, you should have acted more wisely.
Our big problem is the application in the field, and that is in the hands of the social partners.
Equal pay and the equal treatment, and whatever else, of women is never a priority for trade unions and employers.
Mr President, imagine if men in Europe earned 25 per cent less than women.
Imagine if European men were over-represented in precarious, low-skilled part-time jobs and were given their notice when they told their employers that they intended to have children.
Imagine if the proportion of men in Europe' s national parliaments were only 20 per cent.
However, it is women, and not men, who are discriminated against in this way. 'A new way of thinking is required in order to solve the problems created by the old way of thinking,' as Albert Einstein once said.
I want to congratulate Mrs Hautala who has worked to find a new way of solving the problems entailed in the EU' s out-of-date Directive on Equal Treatment.
Countries must take active measures to promote equality in practice.
Mr President, the amendment to the 1976 directive is a very important move and illustrates the Commission's sensitivity on the question of equal treatment for men and women.
I should like to inform the House that the Greek Parliament recently voted almost unanimously to replace a similar article in the Constitution allowing derogations from the principle of sexual equality on the labour market.
The Hautala report suggests a new, better, framework and introduces new types of measures, such as measures to prevent and combat sexual harassment in the workplace, efficient protection for workers from unequal treatment related to pregnancy and maternity, judicial protection, positive measures to apply equality in practice, as other Members have pointed out, and sanctions to punish infringements of the directive.
Mr President, this directive is tremendously important to the future of Europe because it regulates matters which concern the whole of society - men and women alike - and is a way of achieving fundamental strategic objectives of the European Union, as laid down in the EC Treaty, Articles 2 and 3, and the European Social Agenda.
In my personal experience, this procedure has given all of us, European institutions, national governments, social partners and social agencies, a more responsible attitude to women's problems and to the importance of female employment to our development objectives.
Personally, I support Amendment No 17 on the recognition of paternity as a factor in the strategy to promote new working conditions, as a factor in the balanced participation of men and women in family and professional life and as acknowledgement of the social values of family life and support for women in their multiple and simultaneous roles.
The Council has not taken all Parliament's demands on board in its common position.
However, a number of issues and problem areas remain to be resolved.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities has closely examined all these unresolved questions, and a decision has been reached between the groups not to re-examine all the outstanding demands, but rather the most important.
We have the result before us.
The compromise accordingly does not affect Member States' freedom to recognise the right to paternity leave within their borders.
Mr President, Commissioner, this evening, we are discussing the equal treatment of men and women with regard to access to employment, occupational training and chances of promotion, and with regard to working conditions.
The report encourages States and organisations involved to take measures in favour of equal treatment and to combat sexual intimidation.
Better legal protection is given and, for example, opportunities are given to return to work following pregnancy or in connection with adoption.
I should also like to thank the rapporteur warmly for all her efforts to persuade us to sing from the same song sheet, but a special thanks goes to all those who have worked hard on this broadly-based text.
I am aware of your concerns to improve the text of the common position on which there was unanimous agreement in the Council on 11 June 2001.
As you know from the first reading, the Commission accepted in spirit the majority of your amendments - 49 amendments of a total of 70 - and consequently drew up an amended proposal which reflected this position.
In general it should be stressed that the common position considerably enhances the text of the initial proposal and responds to the desire to update the text of Directive 76/207.
We must now focus on the most essential issues of the directive and make a concerted effort to find possible solutions to improve even further the common position.
As you know, the Council only reached an agreement after long discussions on issues such as the precise wording of the definitions and the article on maternity and paternity leave, on which it was very difficult to reach agreement in the Council.
The compromise therefore is extremely delicate.
In this context the Commission can accept the following amendments.
On Amendments Nos 1 and 5, on preventive measures against sexual harassment the Commission can accept in part the idea of introducing measures for preventing sexual harassment by reformulating the text.
On Amendment No 8, on positive measures, the Commission can accept this amendment in part if a definition is contained in the recitals instead of the article of the directive.
On Amendment No 9, on provisions in contracts and agreements, the Commission accepts that annulment should be obligatory but rejects the removal of the possibility for amendment of the contract.
On Amendment No 13, on the role of the independent budgets, the Commission can accept this amendment in part by reformulating the proposed text.
The text of the common position could be improved by strengthening the role of bodies for the promotion of equal treatment and by adding to their tasks the monitoring and follow-up of Community legislation in the field of equal treatment.
The Commission can also accept a reformulation of Article 6(3), by expressly mentioning that designated bodies acting on behalf of victims have an interest in ensuring that the provisions of the directive are complied with.
On Amendment No 14, on equality plans and the company level, the Commission can accept this idea in part, but with a new formulation for Article 8(b).
On Amendment No 15, on reporting on positive action measures, the Commission will propose an alternative text so as to report on positive measures only every three years.
Amendment No 4, rewording the common position's definition of sexual harassment, in order to take into account Parliament's definition of sexual harassment.
Amendments Nos 7 and 17 reformulating the text of the common position on maternity and paternity leave by reintroducing inter alia the idea of maternity and paternity leave where children are adopted.
The common position was hotly debated in the Council on this issue and a delicate compromise was reached.
The Commission did not accept Amendment No 11 on group action in cases of discrimination - especially without the consent of the victim of discrimination.
On Amendments Nos 2, 3, 6, 10 and 12, the Commission considers that the content of these amendments is already covered by the common position.
To sum up, the Commission can accept in part or in spirit Amendments Nos 1, 5, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15 and 16.
Thank you very much, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
Unfortunately, we had to postpone the discharge in the spring, because I as rapporteur had received insufficient information from the Commission.
I can recommend discharge today without any reservations.
However, my report is still a very critical one.
It refers to 1999, and 1999 was the first budget year for which the new Commission was fully responsible.
I am, of course, aware that this reflects the general crisis in development aid, and that this situation is not unique to the Development Fund or to the Commission's work, and that all the Member States, together with the Commission and the Parliament, need to consider new approaches to development policy.
This is absurd of course, because these posts in local delegations are needed above all else so that reforms can be made in the first place.
The further efforts at reform described in the Commission's internal audit report are also important and need to be discussed in detail between the Commission and the Parliament.
We need to monitor progress achieved in the key sectors of health and education, using meaningful indicators such as the increase in the number of teachers or doctors, thus providing more qualitative checks instead of quantitative checks.
This would also mean the discharge process in the Parliament itself having to change.
If we implement these measures together, then I believe that we will be jointly taking an important step towards enhancing the structure of development aid, and that we will be better placed to convince the EU's taxpayers and to secure approval for the necessary expenditure.
I say this because the situation prevailing since 11 September has demonstrated how important development aid is.
draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Development and Cooperation. (ES) Mr President, the difficult circumstances which have accompanied the management of the 1999 budget, of which we are all well aware, have especially affected funds for external relations and, even more, aid to third countries, including the European Development Fund.
For the Socialist Group, the good management of the European Development Fund is not only essential for reasons of correct and transparent accounting, but because this fund and all Community aid resources are essential if we are to contribute to reducing poverty, which is one of our priorities.
Last year we made our 1998 discharge conditional upon the orientation of Community spending towards reducing poverty and we improved the structure of the budget in this respect, in order to reduce the risks of dispersal of aid funds.
This year we have delayed, on one occasion, the discharge, while awaiting a series of reports from the Court of Auditors.
We are now in a position to approve it, now that the Commission has adopted a series of measures to improve the effectiveness of aid, in particular the creation of Europe Aid, but at the same time certain data leads to some reservations: in 1999 the level of payments from the EDF was disappointing when compared to the level of commitment appropriations and payments achieved in previous years, as Mrs Rhle has said.
Contracts funded by the EDF essentially benefit companies in the Member States, to the detriment of local companies and organisations.
The Commission is not yet sufficiently directing its aid towards reducing poverty.
We want simplification of procedures, integration of the cycle of cooperation, transparency in management, assessment in such important sectors as health and education.
The Commission knows that it has the support of the Socialist Group in its efforts to improve the management of the EDF and the Socialist Group trusts that we will see these improvements during the coming financial years, so that we are able to discharge the budget with fewer problems and conditions than has been the case so far.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rhle's report on the discharge for the European Development Funds presents an honest picture of the contradictions in our development policy.
There must be something wrong with a system under which at the end of 1999 resources of almost EUR 10 billion had been promised and made available without any specific deadlines, but had not been taken up.
There is often a lack of an even semi-functioning public administration, there is a lack of democratic control of those in power, and many countries are in a state of open civil war or on the verge of it.
Such administrations are also a prerequisite for ensuring that countries use their own tax revenue responsibly and in the interests of their citizens.
Our aid must therefore always be linked to reform programmes for public administration.
Furthermore, there was again the problem that certain confidential information was only forwarded to the committee chair and to the rapporteur.
The committee made it patently clear in its report that this situation should not be allowed to recur, and that the provisions of our Rules of Procedure in respect of the discharge procedure should be fully implemented in future.
Mr President, the Commission is now to be granted discharge for 1999, but Parliament has, in actual fact, achieved a lot by postponing the discharge first time around.
I think the rapporteur has delivered a splendid piece of work, but I also think the Commission deserves to be warmly congratulated when it makes progress - as, I believe, it has in fact done.
The Commission must also be praised for sending this report to Parliament immediately.
The loss was estimated at around EUR 27.4 million.
It is therefore vital for us to exert pressure to ensure that there is a general improvement in the way public money is looked after in the recipient countries.
However, for the Commission this also means that it should step up its presence in the recipient countries - and on this point I am in agreement with the rapporteur - but not only by increasing the number of officials in the delegations, but, also, by giving those local delegations more authority.
Mr President, the closure and the reduction of the status and the staff of twenty-odd delegations in ACP countries, recently decided by the Commission, deals a harsh blow to the commitments to development given in the Cotonou Agreements.
If there is one lesson that we have learnt about monitoring the Community' s external action for development, it is that the key to its success is the existence of a strong, responsible, independent and credible presence in the recipient countries.
The European Union cannot do without an autonomous and meaningful policy for the less developed world and replace it with a form of regionalisation undertaken in agreement with some of the former colonial powers.
But it was wrong that the delay had to do specifically with information being held back in contradiction to the agreement between the Commission and Parliament.
The main reason for the delay was that the report from the internal auditor service was not finished and could not be finished because we, on both sides, found it necessary and a good idea to broaden its scope in order to get a serious and deep study of how to handle this method of development cooperation.
The question of sound financial management of budgetary support is, I think, better understood, as a result of the work carried out by the Court of Auditors and the Commission' s internal audit service, in cooperation with the various Commission services responsible.
Cooperation with other donors in this field is better than ever.
This covers the discharge for 1999, and the performance for 2000 is in several ways somewhat more encouraging.
One of the main objectives of the reform of the management of the Community' s external assistance programmes is, of course, drastically to reduce the gap between commitments and payments.
In relation to the slow rate of payments, the figures already available indicate that payments in 2000 increased from EUR 1.27 billion to EUR 1.55 billion.
I know that Parliament, and particularly the Development Committee, is anxious to see us make progress in this area, and we are doing our best.
In particular, we are concerned that the process of deconcentration, or delegating to delegations as I prefer to call it, should move ahead smoothly.
I therefore hope that Parliament in its decisions on the budget for 2002 will support us in this effort.
Concern is expressed in the resolution about the percentage of EDF contracts going to companies from the ACP countries, and it requires the Commission to increase this from some 25% to 40% in five years.
ACP companies already benefit from a substantial preference margin in cases where offers are technically equivalent.
We have already identified this as an area where we should push forward.
This is an important part of the reform of the Commission' s financial management and control.
We also plan improvements to the presentation of the accounts, in response to the comments from the Court of Auditors.
The respect of confidentiality and the application of correct transmission procedures remain crucial.
The 1999 discharge procedure showed that the framework agreement provides an effective and satisfactory framework for cooperation between the Commission and Parliament.
The 1999 discharge procedure was the first to which this framework agreement was applied.
The Commission sought to apply the agreement fully and loyally throughout that procedure.
And in the light of recent events we have come to better understand the reality and urgency of interdependency in this world.
The challenge of reducing poverty is one in which the whole international community is involved and we share with others the framework for providing aid and for assessing the results.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, the Committee on Regional Policy is pleased with the initiative to lay down the classification of territorial units for statistics in a Regulation, thereby providing it with a legal basis.
Until now, because there has been no such legal basis, changes and updatings have been carried out by means of gentlemen's agreements between Member States and Eurostat.
I therefore believe that this proposed regulation is of great political importance, not only because it will be applied when determining which regions will receive Structural Funds, but also because it provides a certain vision of Europe, of its territorial reality, of its regional and provincial organisation and hence of its disparities and imbalances.
The proposal divides the territory of the States into statistical units organised hierarchically into three levels, and proposes criteria for the definition of these regions in the candidate countries, criteria which demand that they continue to be defined on the basis of territorial organisation and within the current demographic borders.
The Committee on Regional Policy shares the objectives which the Commission expresses in its proposed Regulation, but nevertheless considers that the classification obtained is not entirely suited to those objectives, which means that it is perceived by some citizens as an artificial division of European territory.
In fact, in the annex, the Commission restricts itself to presenting the existing administrative territorial units in each Member State, mixing them with others which do not have the same institutional character, which means that there is a clear lack of homogeneity.
The Committee on Regional Policy believes that the proposal should include a European approach which is capable of overcoming the framework of borders between States.
In this respect, NUTS level 1 should take account of large territorial units which transcend these borders, which are intended to serve as a basis for the future planning of European territory.
The Committee on Regional Policy urges the Commission and the Member States to work towards the creation of NUTS level 4 and even NUTS level 5, which would represent local bodies.
I must point out that this report was approved in committee by 43 votes in favour and one abstention.
I believe that the report approved by the Committee on Regional Policy should be accepted by Council and the Commission.
It would be a good thing if the Commission and, subsequently, the Council could take up the proposals of this Parliament' s Committee on Regional Policy.
We are dealing here with an example of what, in many cases, this way of operating has consisted of: gentlemen' s agreements.
This is an extremely important issue, as the rapporteur has pointed out very effectively.
We must not create fictitious units which, in the end, only lead to a lack of confidence in European construction on the part of the different States, the different regions and the citizens.
She has raised important questions and also taken the proposals of others into account.
Our group supports the Commission' s proposal and, furthermore, the rapporteur' s view regarding the creation of a proper legal basis for verifying nomenclature.
The issue is also a timely one, as the applicant countries are receiving guidelines for verifying territorial classification in their own countries.
With the present NUTS classification system one problem is that classifications by country have shaped themselves according to each country' s own needs and traditions.
Our group supports the rapporteur' s opinion that the Commission should investigate the inclusion of a new level NUTS 4 in the regulation.
The Commission has always adhered purely to statistical criteria for the classification of territorial units and has not taken such political issues into account.
So there was ultimately always a tendency to distribute resources from the structural funds using a scattergun approach, rather than concentrating these resources in any efficient way on the regions in greatest need.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regard the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a common classification of Territorial Units for Statistics, NUTS, as being sensible and clear in terms of both statistics and administration.
However, we must ensure that any amendment to the classification also requires the prior approval of the Member States.
I would like to start by clarifying two points that seem essential to me.
It is up to you to interpret whether statistical classification can have a political impact or not; but I can assure you that that is not the objective of this document, nor was it the Commission' s intention.
The document is based on a Eurostat proposal which intends to achieve the most equitable treatment possible for all the countries and regions of the European Union.
But it also seems essential to us as a means of establishing principles for enlargement and in order to continue applying the same criteria that have been applied up to this point.
The first is that the NUTS are legislative regions; we have therefore tried to define their territory in accordance with existing legislative political definitions: a good definition, recognised by the Member States, of units which in many cases already have governmental structures and comparable statistics, which makes them sufficiently reliable.
The third principle is to try to make the regional statistics comparable.
But we are also aware that there are historic realities and legal situations in each of the countries which mean that this principle cannot be applied in an automatic or mechanical way, and that specific situations have to be taken into account.
That is why the regulation responds to a series of objectives which you have been able to debate in depth and for which you have made some corrections.
We are heading towards having NUTS that are classified in accordance with the current regional systems, because we believe that this is the most effective instrument we have today for the collection, calculation and diffusion of regional statistics.
Furthermore, in the regulation we set criteria for defining regions in such a way that the candidate countries will have guidelines for regional classification within their own territory.
It would be very difficult to establish political interests which undoubtedly would lead us to clear contradictions.
This issue is essential for the Union' s regional policy, but, as I said before, statistical classification must not prejudice the nature of the Union' s future regional policy.
We cannot speak of absolutely permanent situations, but NUTS must not be modified too often and of course we must have a system which is based on certain rules and certain pre-established principles.
The regulation, as it is drawn up, allows us to move forward and improve on what we have at the moment.
You have contributed 11 amendments which, in our opinion, help to clarify and improve the regulation.
The Commission can therefore accept the 11 amendments presented by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Thank you so much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 11.09 p.m.)
