I have had an opportunity, over the last 48 hours, to talk to all countries involved in the region: to South Korea, to China and to Japan.
I told them all that North Korea poses a threat to peace and security, not just within the region; and, I should add, not just in its nuclear activities but also in its attitude towards missile proliferation.
I would add that the response of the United Nations Security Council, since Monday night, has been correct, and that the reaction of the European Union's Member States has also been extremely correct.
As I said earlier, this is a poor country, with which we have increasingly tenuous relations, but with which we do still have a humanitarian link, to which I am sure Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner will be referring.
Mr President, Secretary-General, High Representative of the Council, the nuclear test which North Korea claims to have conducted at Gilju on the morning of 9 October is an extremely serious matter, which I unreservedly condemn.
As the High Representative just said, not only does it threaten regional stability in north-east Asia, it also constitutes the latest in a series of challenges by Kim Jong-il to the international nuclear non-proliferation regime.
The European Union has spoken out very clearly in response to this nuclear test and I am pleased to note that the international community has been swift, resolute and united in condemning these actions.
I have just come back from a trip to Singapore and Malaysia, and I can assure you that my colleagues are most concerned by this act by North Korea.
They should not be put at risk and punished even more by the terrible regime. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Solana, ladies and gentlemen, North Korea's nuclear tests are a provocation and a threat to the international community: a provocation, because North Korea is a dictatorial regime in the Stalinist style, Mr President, which keeps its people starved and which should dedicate its resources to a nobler cause than nuclear proliferation, rather than taking advantage of the suspension of the six-party talks and of the fact that it is outside of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
The last thing I have to say I say on my own account to all those who always recommend the development of nuclear energy as the solution to the problems of mankind; I would remind them that every nuclear power plant and every enrichment facility that is built becomes, in the hands of a criminal such as the North Korean dictator, something that puts the whole world at incalculable risk.
The Presidency signalled its willingness to work in close cooperation with the international community towards a decisive international response to this provocative act.
If we really want to be of help in this matter, I believe that we must show determination, a great deal of composure and, given that we disseminate nuclear technology, a great deal of humility, too. (Applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, North Korea's nuclear test is, quite clearly, deserving of condemnation, for it makes the region even less stable and, like every other of its kind, exposes the people who live there to the risk of radioactive fall-out.
The Russian Defence Minister has said that this nuclear test makes North Korea, the de facto ninth nuclear power, joining the USA, Russia, China, France, the United Kingdom, Israel, India and Pakistan.
I ask you: what nuclear power do you know of that abides by Article 6 of the Nuclear Weapons Non-Proliferation Treaty, in which nuclear disarmament is laid down as an obligation?
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, Mr Solana, ladies and gentlemen, this nuclear test has undoubtedly been highly detrimental to stability, peace and security.
Here, the question I would like to put to our foreign ministers is whether they agree with these comments by Mr ElBaradei to the effect that the USA and the EU states conduct a hypocritical policy in relation to Israel on the one hand and to states such as Iran and North Korea on the other since, undoubtedly, Israel can possess weapons of mass destruction, Israel can have that defence system, but for other states which have not signed up to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty such an option is forbidden.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, the destabilising effects of Pyongyang's nuclear test last Monday are evident, particularly in North-East Asia, but also globally.
Indeed, only last week, the North Korean regime announced that it is supplying technology, materials and nuclear weapons to other countries as it pleases.
I dare say that the Council and the Commission can imagine the enormous concern in Israel surrounding the reckless North-Korean nuclear test, which, at the same time, gives the Islamic Republic of Iran enormous encouragement to follow Pyongyang down the nuclear path, probably with actual technical and material back-up from Kim Jong-Il's terror regime.
We are pleased to note that even China has condemned Korea's proposed arms race.
We should ensure that this man is not given more escape routes by this House, for he is defying every rule made by the international community, and so we must compel him to return to the meetings of the Six, and, if they prove successful, he can be guaranteed security for his country, but this must be spelled out plainly if we are not to end up in 20 years' time with a world which will have 30 or 40 countries with nuclear weapons, and all set to destroy it. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, as a European Parliament, we have no choice but to associate ourselves with the universal condemnation of the nuclear tests apparently carried out by North Korea.
Our firm condemnation should be accompanied by a commitment by the European Union and the whole international community to try at this time to find a solution to this very grave problem by negotiation.
It must be said that this pre-emptive Iraq war has, perversely, convinced dictators that possessing nuclear weapons is a sort of safe-conduct.
Finally, Mr Solana, I should like you to explain the differences between North Korea and Iran, since the two cases are too often associated with each other - yet I believe that there lies in the differences the details of a possible solution. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, enough has been said about North Korea, but too little, I think, about how it can be an object lesson for us in Europe and for the world at large.
In 2005, it was reported from Pyongyang that the country was in possession of nuclear weapons, and the test was carried out at the beginning of this week.
The fact that it is misinterpreting the stance of the international community could be a result of the regime's total isolation, but it could well also be aimed at enforcing bilateral talks, which it has not yet achieved.
The European Union is not a direct participant in the six-party talks but, as a responsible global player with a clear stake in preserving regional stability, we have been profoundly supportive of this framework.
There may be some doubts about what to do next and how to deal with North Korea in the future, but the fact that the test has been a source of concern for the international community - and that the international community has taken responsibility for addressing the issue - has been supported by all the Members who have spoken in this debate.
The Non-Proliferation Treaty dates back to 1968.
As I said, the Treaty was drawn up in 1968.
This is probably the most important step that the United Nations Security Council can take.
Before we proceed to the next item, Mr Pflüger has requested the floor to make a personal statement pursuant to Rule 145 of our Rules of Procedure.
