Environmental impact of the planned gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea to link up Russia and Germany (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Libicki, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, on the environmental impact of the planned gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea to link up Russia and Germany (Petitions 0614/2007 and 0952/2007).
rapporteur. - (PL) Mr President, today's debate is very special, since it is based on a request from ordinary citizens in the European Union.
In total we had five debates on this subject.
While these discussions were going on in the Committee on Petitions and when the European Parliament agreed for the issue to be debated publicly, which is what is happening today, additional debates took place in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
The texts put forward for approval obtained ninety percent support in the Committee on Petitions and in both the other committees.
Suddenly 180 amendments were submitted to the Committee on Petitions.
Ladies and gentlemen, there are three parties in this consideration: the ordinary citizens of the Union, enormous political and economic capital, and the European Parliament.
I would also like to thank the Secretariat of the Committee on Petitions, including David Lowe, Karen Chioti and Silvia Cannalire, as well as those who have given me advice, help and cooperation: Szymon Szynkowski, Norbert Napierajów, Wojciech Danecki, Witold Ziobrze and Michał Krupiński.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Petitions, Mr Libicki, for his report, which allows us to discuss the environmental impact of this large project, a natural gas pipeline of 1 200 km in length, which will be crossing a shallow sea such as the Baltic.
This is not just because this is an important project, raising many questions on environmental protection in the Baltic area, but also because this appears to be the first of many similar projects planned for the future.
Commissioner Piebalgs gave an overview of the prospects of the European Union with regard to natural gas and stressed that the needs of the European Union in gas are rapidly increasing, while the production of gas in the European Union is falling dramatically and stocks are being used up.
The Nord Stream pipeline will make it possible to increase the supply of natural gas from Russia.
As you know, the need to construct new infrastructure for the transportation of Russian gas to the European Union has been acknowledged by the European Parliament and by the Council through the guidelines for trans-European energy networks, adopted in September 2006.
The guidelines specified certain priority projects and this project is classified as a project of European interest and, therefore, as a top priority.
The environmental impact assessment procedures are laid down both in Community and in international law.
The environmental impact procedure based on the Espoo Convention started with the project's disclosure in late 2006.
As is stipulated in the Espoo Convention, the contractor or project owner must provide the appropriate documentation regarding the environmental impact.
At the present phase, any emphasis placed on a potential negative environmental impact which cannot be mitigated or avoided, as laid down in the environmental impact legislation, is premature.
In fact, the final environmental impact assessment report has not yet been drafted.
I have been informed that all the parties involved, meaning both the parties of origin and the affected parties, are regularly holding meetings and discussions on the developments in the environmental impact procedure based on the Espoo Convention.
The final environmental impact report is expected by the end of the year.
Commissioner, in your reply could you confirm that you will accept Parliament's paragraph 20 of the Libicki report, which calls upon you and the Commission to carry out an independent environmental assessment?
I would just like to finish by saying that my group will be voting in favour of the Libicki report.
The Swiss company Nord Stream failed to submit an environmental impact assessment by the permitted deadline, leaving the European Parliament to vote blind.
It has also become apparent that the environmental impact assessment commissioned by Nord Stream only incorporated the new research problems after Parliament pointed out major failings in its research plans.
With regard to this project and the report by Mr Libicki, I would like to say that in general three aspects should be taken into consideration here.
It is clear that energy resources are necessary both for Germany and for Europe, and from this viewpoint the gas pipeline from Russia is necessary, since Russia owns the gas resources.
The second is the political aspect.
Here, nothing of the kind has been provided, and so in fact it does not comply with the EU strategy for energy solidarity and energy security that we have now accepted.
As we know, according to the Global Environment Facility's report, 7 of the 10 most polluted locations in the world's oceans are in the Baltic Sea.
There are no projects without risks.
Our group's proposed amendments to the report are based on the principle that no concessions be made on the environment, but that no artificial barriers be constructed either.
Russia has not ratified the Espoo Convention on the Baltic.
Russia should be required to do this before construction of the pipeline can begin.
We need a Community response which is underlined by the principle of solidarity.
Yes, this project is a political bypass, and yes, it is a bypass that not only gets round any of the potential political problems involved with building it on land, but it also shows utter contempt for the EU's common energy policy and weakens its position in terms of relations with Russia.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Mr President, a gas pipeline on the bottom of the Baltic Sea means increased climate-change emissions and serious environmental risks to the sensitive ecosystem of the Baltic.
However, what the German Government in Berlin is doing is scandalous and flies in the face of European solidarity.
Many people are worried that the creation of the pipeline will increase not security of supply for the continent but our defencelessness against Russia.
However, the report before us sheds much light on the environmental concerns arising in relation to the pipeline in the Baltic Sea.
If the European Parliament really wants to become an institution that is close to its citizens, it must take into account the 30 000 signatures on different petitions which draw attention to the environmental risks of the gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea, and a real answer must be given to the questions that have been raised.
Thanks to the public enquiry in the Committee on Petitions in January, we can expect Nord Stream to undertake an impartial and comprehensive environmental impact assessment.
Among other things, Gazprom must also be able to give a public demonstration of its ability in practice to honour its commitments on deliveries in the future. - (DE) Mr President, of course the construction of pipelines - whether they are oil or gas pipelines - has an impact on the environment, and it matters not whether this pipe runs through the North Sea from Ekofisk to Emden, as exists today, or whether it runs from Russia to Germany via Poland, which also exists.
It is our job as Europeans to say that we have faith in the Member States concerned. (NL) Mr President, we are having this debate today because citizens and governments are worried about the construction of this pipeline.
We have to admit that we need the energy, that domestic production, in the Netherlands as elsewhere, is continuing to fall and so we need the gas from other sources.
This report is the European Parliament's answer to a petition with more than thirty thousand signatures and we have no right to ignore the European citizens' opinion.
We, the European Parliament, in the Europe of 2008, are not allowed to repeat this history. (DA) Mr President, the Baltic Sea is a very vulnerable sea, and Nord Stream will affect the seabed and biodiversity in the area.
However, the environmental problem is not the only issue with Nord Stream.
It has raised justified concerns about energy security issues in several countries around the Baltic Sea.
There can surely be no doubts regarding the geopolitical importance to Russia of the Nord Stream project.
I was, therefore, very surprised that Commissioner Dimas first stressed the importance of the energy supply and business aspects of the project, only later referring to the environmental impact.
If we are to secure our future energy supplies then every pipeline is important for the EU: the Baltic Sea pipeline represents a complementary energy route and should not therefore be regarded as being in competition with other projects.
This discussion again highlights the need for a common and coordinated EU foreign policy. (PL) Mr President, for me the northern gas pipeline and the approach taken by the European Parliament towards the northern gas pipeline are a test of the real value of the European Union, a test of whether the EU really does act on the basis of solidarity.
If, in much smaller projects that carry considerably less risk to both humans and the environment, it is a requirement to put forward several alternative proposals so that the best one can then be selected, so in this enormous project, which, potentially, could cause a serious threat not just for the environment but also for humans, one should require the proponents to put forward several alternative proposals.
As for me, I will shake hands with every esteemed German parliamentarian in this House who votes against these amendments by 41 Members.
Construction on the Baltic seabed is not a bilateral issue between Germany and Russia, since, if there is an ecological disaster, all the countries on the Baltic Sea would suffer.
Next, considering the merits of the case, I would like to emphasise that, in examining projects that directly affect its members, the European Union should apply objective environmental protection standards.
The Nord Stream project will, as we all well know, have a disastrous impact on the natural environment of the Baltic Sea.
The northern gas pipeline is uneconomical: it is over 30 times more expensive than construction over land.
According to the latest estimates, the project will cost between EUR 10 billion and EUR 20 billion.
A second point of this unusually controversial project is the European Union's energy security.
The Nord Stream construction project will have a drastic impact on this security.
In response to Russia's actions, the European Union should expand Member States' access to gas and oil resources in Central Asia instead of making us even more dependent on gas supplies from Gazprom, as is happening at present.
The Kremlin's activities are aimed at preventing diversification of gas supplies in Europe and Nord Stream provides the perfect way to fulfil this objective.
The Nord Stream project demonstrates the Kremlin's capability to monopolise the market for gas in Europe.
At the same time, the problems with the European Nabucco project provide an example of the Union's failure to guarantee its own energy security.
I call on Europe to be unanimous in searching for other alternatives such as land pipelines and to consider nuclear energy, not gas, as an environmentally friendly alternative with the potential to provide the EU with secure energy. (PL) Mr President, over the past months I have submitted a number of questions to the Commission on this subject and always received answers that were unclear and general in nature.
You could say that this only affects the principal, but the point is that in the end the cost will be passed on to consumers.
Thirdly and finally, this is a project that strikes at the heart of the ideal of a common energy policy for the European Union.
It is difficult to imagine this ideal being realised in the future, when the gas pipeline project (...) (The President cut off the speaker) (SV) Mr President, the gas pipeline project is founded on three fundamental errors.
This pipeline is over 1 000 km long.
It is you, Commissioner, who have the right according to the Espoo Convention to defend the non-territorial part of the Baltic.
Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the Espoo Convention has not been ratified by Russia.
It is unethical to use environmental concerns in order to achieve political objectives and, for that reason, I will vote against it. (PL) Mr President, I would like to respond to Commissioner Dimas, who focused on political and economic issues, somewhat avoiding the question of the environment.
We all know that Russia does not intend to comply with the mutuality principle as regards investment in the energy market.
For this reason the Nord Stream project strengthens Russia's position economically and is harmful for Europe.
Realisation of the Nord Stream project will mean that every European Union country will be similarly exposed to this type of pressure and could thus be blackmailed.
We shall wait for the negative assessments of the Baltic countries to be taken into account in this matter.
Commissioner Dimas can ignore these views.
I would like to say to Commissioner Dimas and to the Commission as a whole that I find it incomprehensible that neither the EU nor you yourself, Commissioner, or the rest of the Commission, have reacted to this huge project - in terms of security policy, energy policy or environmental policy.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the speakers in today's debate for their interesting views.
They imply that the general public is becoming increasingly involved in debates on sustainable development and on environmental protection in relation to large infrastructure projects.
The Commission may only intervene if there are serious grounds to believe that there have been omissions in performing the relevant legal obligations based on Community law, including the environmental laws of the European Union.
Nearly everyone agreed that this pipeline is not just a threat to the environment, but that it will be harmful to the environment, firstly through the construction process and then, God forbid, should any disaster occur.
Written statements (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - The impulse provided by the Nord Stream debate represents a good start for Europe to finally speak with one voice on energy security issues and to focus on an effective common energy policy.
The European Union should treat the environmental and geopolitical issues regarding energy security by means of a concerted effort of all Member States, and not by bilateral treaties concluded by some Member States with Russia.
This is the only way in which the European Union could achieve a strong position in the negotiations with Russia, avoiding the energy resources being transformed into a political pressure factor and could transform the EU into an equal partner of Russia.
At the same time, the solution of a European common energy policy could supplement the incapacity of the Bucharest right-wing governing people to promote Romania's energy interests in the relationship with Russia.
It is a great shame that those who intend to undertake this investment have not as yet submitted an environmental impact assessment.
After all, this is to be the longest undersea construction project in the world at 1 200 kilometres.
The route of the pipeline is to go through Natura 2000 areas as well as underwater ammunition dumps and sunken poisonous gas from the time of the Second World War.
in writing. - (ET) Article 194 of the future Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (the Lisbon Treaty) clearly states that EU policy on energy should, in a spirit of solidarity between Member States, have regard for the need to preserve and improve the environment.
I can in no way agree that the natural environment in Europe can be made slave to EU external energy policy, when in recent years Europe has spoken out forcefully for environmental protection.
I urge the European Parliament to support the ideas put forward by the Baltic Sea countries, the rapporteur and environmental organisations for the Baltic pipeline to be built on land and I therefore urge the European Commission and Council to use all available legal means at their disposal to change the constructor's plan to construct the pipeline through the Baltic Sea.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very successful work.
The construction of the Baltic gas pipeline is primarily an environmental question, and the whole project and its feasibility should be examined in this light.
However, there are many ways of satisfying energy needs, and the seas inside the Union should not be decisively endangered only because other options would seem to be more expensive.
From an ecological point of view, the construction of a gas pipeline on the seabed threatens the whole Baltic Sea basin with disaster, and not just this basin.
From the political point of view it is advantageous for Russia, it brings conflict into the European Union and results in Germany breaching the EU principles of partnership and solidarity.
in writing. - (CS) I too am disturbed by the worries of the tens of thousands of citizens who in their petition highlight the risks accompanying the construction of the biggest gas pipeline at the bottom of the shallow Baltic Sea.
Their petition resulted in a public hearing and in a European Parliament report, which highlighted the need to include other countries, and the EU in particular, in the decision-making process.
The Commission and the Council must also request an independent impact assessment and an assessment of the alternative land-based route.
After all, Russia has not yet ratified the Espoo Convention.
We can clearly see that instead of a bilateral agreement between Germany and Russia, Europeans need an EU agreement and the consent of the Baltic countries to the construction.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, constructing the gas pipeline as a project buried in the ground would be a cheaper, safer option than sinking it in the sea.
Unfortunately, there is no land-based alternative to sinking the pipeline in the sea, but it demands that the marine environment be protected.
