&#160;&#160; – The next item is the oral question by Joost Lagendijk and Gisela Kallenbach, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Hannes Swoboda and Jan Marinus Wiersma, on behalf of the PSE Group, Doris Pack, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, and Elizabeth Lynne, Sarah Ludford and Jelko Kacin, on behalf of the ALDE Group, to the Council, on the EU's preparedness for its future role in Kosovo (O-0082/2006 – B6-0426/2006). &#160;&#160; .
During that visit, we got the impression that whilst the European Union is present and is getting geared up for the task which, as we all know, will be vital to Kosovo's future, the energy that is being invested in it and the attention given to it leave a great deal to be desired in a number of areas.
What is equally important, for example, is coordinating all the efforts of the international community, continuing to help in the construction of a civil administration and, crucially, monitoring compliance with human rights.
Our question to the Council and the European Union is the following: Are people really prepared, and able, to make thorough preparations – that is to say, in all those areas, and not just in the first two of them?
I wonder, more out of interest than out of criticism, whether the Member States and Commission are able to get a fully-equipped Commission delegation up and running in time.
Those are the questions we would like answered by the Commission and, above all, by the Council. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, when we look back at the history of this region, some catastrophic events can be recorded in Yugoslavia, including Milošević’s activities in Kosovo, which have now resulted in us having to resolve this complex and important issue as far as Europe is concerned.
The West, and the European Union in particular, has not tolerated Milošević’s oppression, displacement and killing of some of&#160;the Albanian speaking population in particular.
What I am saying is that even for Serbia and the Serbian population as a whole, the fact that there was national unity in Kosovo which, as has already been mentioned, fully guarantees human rights and the rights of minorities, would not present a solution or amount to anything.
Independence, something which is looming on the horizon as far as Kosovo is concerned, must therefore be very clearly associated with conditions and European standards.
I hope that, in future, the Council will insist on this unequivocally in all deliberations.
It would have been better for us if, over past months, the Albanian majority had already demonstrated that it fully respected the rights of minorities, and here, above all, we are talking about the rights of the Serbian population.
The European Union will have to play a major role in the legal system, in the sphere of security, especially that of the police, but naturally also as far as military security is concerned.
Responsibility for organising how the European Union plays out this role rests with the Council and naturally, with our colleagues at the Commission, because it would be terrible if Europe was again to speak with two contrasting voices in this region.
No, we just need a single voice in this region which stands up for human rights, for the rights of minorities in a future, independent Kosovo, which means that a limit on sovereignty can be lifted if Kosovo and the majority there also behave accordingly.
If Serbia receives the support of the European Union, however, a new Serbia can emerge which will prove a valuable partner for all members of the European Union.
I would therefore like to call on you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, to really make every effort, with the assistance of the Commission and the European Parliament, to help Serbia overcome this difficult phase.
There are four different representations in Kosovo.
We have the so-called fourth pillar within the UN framework where we are essentially responsible for economic matters as well as privatisation.
The European Parliament has a delegation there and finally, we also have Council representation.
All this in the small region that is Kosovo.
The question must already be asked how all this is organised, how all these bodies are able to communicate with one another at all.
We now have this EU planning team, something we were able to establish when we were over there, which is responsible for ensuring the rule of law, but I find this all very restrictive.
The tasks facing us are much more extensive.
When we shift our attention to the neighbouring state of Bosnia Herzegovina, we see the difficulties facing us there and the multitude of problems that we still have to deal with.
The only thing lacking as far as I am concerned is pressure on the Serbian Government in Belgrade to allow Serbs in Kosovo to participate.
This must certainly happen at some point or other because Serbia is no longer responsible for them.
With its neighbours, this region will become part of the European Union.
We must therefore see to it that it is in a position to resolve these tasks, that it heeds human rights and the rights of minorities, that, with our help, it develops all the administrative capabilities required to also adopt and transpose our legislation, and to then find a seamless path into the European Union in conjunction with its neighbours, Serbia and Montenegro.
That could instigate economic development in the north of Kosovo.
Indeed, the Council of Europe Committee on Torture has not been allowed access to prisoners in Kosovo.
This is unacceptable when a territory is under the stewardship of an international community that purports to uphold human rights.
The status process for Kosovo is led by UN Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari.
The EU is fully involved in the work via its special representative.
Likewise, the Union, and the Finnish Presidency in particular, are in regular direct contact with Special Envoy Ahtisaari, who recently gave an account of the situation at the meeting of the EU’s General Affairs and External Relations Council on 17&#160;July.
The UN Special Envoy is still trying to persuade both Belgrade and Pristina to take an active part in negotiations on key themes, such as decentralisation of government, religious and cultural heritage, economic issues and the rights of minorities.
The parties continue to hold different views, but the process has been useful inasmuch as it has clarified positions and has helped to explore common ground for a future solution.
The European Union fully supports these objectives.
The EU is pleased with the decision by the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations to move on to political discussions on Kosovo’s status and urge both parties to take part in a new round of talks in a constructive way.
The European Union fully supports the combined efforts of the UN Secretary-General’s special representative for Kosovo and Kosovo’s temporary self-governing bodies to implement standards.
There is also a need to prepare for a progressive move from the reform process according to these standards to one that is consistent with European integration.
These are the Union’s participation in any future civil presence, any possible civil crisis management operation concerning the rule of law, especially with regard to the police and the judicial system, and an EU presence with the purpose of lending support to Kosovo’s European perspective.
Preparations are under way in all three areas.
The Union’s future role in Kosovo is being planned in conjunction with the European Commission.
After a solution has been found and when the United Nations Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) has been gradually disbanded, Kosovo’s own institutions should themselves be responsible for dealing with their affairs.
The European Union is very centrally involved in the implementation of a solution to Kosovo’s status.
It will be part of a future international presence and involved in any civil crisis management operation, and it will support efforts to strengthen stability and socio-economic development in Kosovo.
It is not our back yard, but our front yard, and in the long term, a future EU territory.
The European Union has a major responsibility for the future of Kosovo.
In our joint paper on the EU’s future role in Kosovo, presented in July this year, Javier Solana and I made it clear that the EU will have to take the lead in international presence after the status process has been concluded.
Our paper analysed the nature, size and responsibilities of a future international engagement; it also set out the EU’s role after the status settlement and practical means to realise Kosovo’s future European perspective.
Achieving a negotiated solution on the Kosovo status issue cannot be taken for granted.
The EU needs to give a clear signal that it will stay in Kosovo to play a key role in the implementation of the status settlement and to support its long-term EU perspective through the stabilisation and association process.
After the status settlement, we will organise a donors’ conference to mobilise the international community’s support for the people of Kosovo.
As Mr Poettering and other eminent MEPs are present here this morning, I would like to make an important point: the cuts to the Commission’s staff budget proposed by the Council would make this task in Kosovo and the Western Balkans simply impossible.
Please do not ask the EU and the Commission to do more in ensuring external and internal security – be it in Kosovo, Lebanon or the Canary Islands.
This means that we cannot shirk the fact that we are at the threshold of clarifying the status question and that this clarification will comprise Kosovo’s national independence.
All this serves to show that a massive presence on the part of the European Union and the international community will be required for a long time yet.
I certainly agree with Sarah Ludford that the most important element is combating unemployment as far as this fledgling people is concerned, but nobody is willing to invest in Kosovo before the question of status is clarified.
We have therefore lost too much time on this issue already.
I believe speedy clarification of the status question is a prerequisite for an economic upturn and for eliminating unemployment and, hence, the most serious danger posed by radicalism.
I agree with the Commissioner that we should give people there as much autonomy as possible.
I think that the facts are plain for everyone to see, so we should get used to the idea, and the Security Council will probably issue a ruling to that effect at the end of the year.
Everyone you talk to in Kosovo is convinced that the international community, NATO in the first instance, of course, will need to remain present for a good number of years.
First of all, as others have already mentioned, there is the protection and the rights of the Serbian minority in Kosovo.
An important point in this connection, and I confirm in that respect what has already been said, is that we can expect cooperation and openness from both the Kosovar-Albanians and the Serbians who live in Kosovo, and Belgrade, too, of course has an important role to play.
Needless to say, the international mission will also play an important role in the further economic development and in creating political stability in a possibly independent Kosovo.
Economic development, as is also apparent when visiting the area, is, of course, an important priority.
Everyone knows that the EU will, in future, be playing a bigger role in Kosovo.
After all, it is apparent from discussions with people in Kosovo that many are critical of the UN’s role.
What they no longer want in any event is an international organisation dictating how they should run their own country.
They finally want to be in charge of their region, their country, and we should be prepared for this.
That is a weighty responsibility for the European Union.
The European Union will need to play a role in the development of the police system, but will also need to supervise the development of the judiciary, and what is more, I think it is important to invest heavily in the administrative structures as well as in the economic development to which reference has already been made.
What struck us and what we wondered about is whether the EU is sufficiently prepared and whether we have enough human resources over there who can shoulder this important and heavy responsibility next year.
If the talks do not produce results, then the international community must take responsibility for a decision.
We can see clearly the contours of the solution.
We do not want – because we cannot want – a restoration of the pre-1999 situation.
We do not want Kosovo to be split up, because this could launch a dangerous chain reaction in the region.
Kosovo can gradually regain its independence, its full statehood, depending on the degree to which it becomes viable and is able to guarantee human rights, minority rights, and the basic principles of the rule of law.
We must help Kosovo in achieving these, and in creating the necessary conditions.
I agree with the Commissioner that the key question is the guarantee of minority rights, especially those of the Serb but also of the Roma minorities.
We have to find a solution that can ensure broad-ranging autonomy for the Kosovo Serbs and the Roma as well, a solution that is guaranteed by the constitution, and for which the international community takes responsibility and offers guarantees.
But Serbia, too, must understand that its concerns about the rights of the Kosovo Serb minority are justified, but that morally they can only be accepted if Serbia in turn guarantees the same rights to minorities living within Serbia, for instance Hungarians and Slovaks living in Voivodina, and Albanians living elsewhere in Serbia.
In conclusion, the Commissioner has spoken of a very important matter: the role to be played by the international community, and more specifically by the European Union.
It is impossible to imagine creating a viable Kosovo without the active cooperation of the European Union.
Unfortunately, the 2007 budget does not make any provision for this.
Once again, words and deeds point in different directions.
We talk about wanting to take action, but at the same time the budgetary basis for our actions is lacking.
I am particularly disappointed by the proposals put to us today by the Council, which are not particularly practical.
I wholeheartedly endorse Commissioner Rehn’s view that we are not – in financial and personnel terms – prepared for the challenge that will face us from next year onwards, and that is why I beg the Council, as a matter of urgency, to listen to us and to appeal to the Member States to make it, perhaps, possible for us to remedy the situation to some degree through bilateral treaties and the supply of specialised personnel.
What matters in the discussions surrounding this topic is the question as to the conditions which independence must meet and how the Serb, Roma and other minorities will be protected.
My group has bad recollections of the attitude which the European Union adopted between 1989 and 1999.
Nobody seemed interested in the peaceful mass opposition under the of the later President Ibrahim Rugova, during which all Serb state institutions were boycotted and the Albanian-speaking population set up its own government and school system.
Unfortunately, Kosovo's independence, which is now inevitable, is not a choice motivated by the pursuit of democracy and equal rights, but the result of an industrial accident.
After seven years, it is plain for nearly everyone to see that continued occupation does not solve anything, while handing it back to Serbia would unleash a guerrilla war and enormous floods of refugees.
I agree with the questioners from four other groups that the European Union is now obliged to play a positive role in a peaceful and correct division of Serbia and the construction of democracy and economy in Kosovo. &#160;&#160; –Mr President, the nineteen-nineties have become etched in our memory due to the monstrous crimes that were committed by our southern neighbours.
The world was shocked by how brutal and inhuman former neighbours and relatives could be in their behaviour towards one another.
The Muslim Albanians, who constituted 90% of the population and had been decimated by the police and the Orthodox Serb minority, were ‘rescued’ by the military intervention of NATO forces in 1999.
Since then, the ethnic cleansing started by the bloody regime of the Serbian president Milosevic has ceased, but countless acts of aggression against the Serbian minority have continued.
Today, the Albanians are still living under international protection in areas reminiscent of ghettoes, where they are trying to rebuild their lives.
The Council has concentrated its efforts on the issue of legitimate government.
Therefore I feel very strongly that we should stick to the timetable and time limits envisaged by the contact group and have the issue settled by the end of the Finnish Presidency at the end of 2006.
It is important, in order to maintain stability in the region, that there is an international presence and most certainly that the European Union is ready to maintain a significant presence for some time.
I certainly hope that the Finnish Presidency in 2006 will end with a final settlement on the Kosovo issue and with independence for Kosovo. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first I should like to welcome both the honesty and courage of Commissioner Rehn on the Council's stand on the 2007 budget.
Ladies and gentlemen, to be honest, the European Union cannot be efficient and reliable without Community resources in the Balkans and the Council's proposal to reduce Community resources in the 2007 budget is, in my view, an unacceptable proposal which cannot be accepted.
That being so, we surely all know that the European Union has an important role on the 'day after', in the period following the definition of the final regime in Kosovo.
However, the European Union also has a very serious role to play today and it has a role in the definition of the final regime.
However, we must show equal support for Serbia within the framework of the European strategy, as defined at the Thessaloniki Council.
To close, I would like to refer to the question of Serbia, which particularly concerns me, because we have heard here from honourable Members with different views.
There can be no peaceful solution for Kosovo, there can be no peace, stability and security in the Balkans unless there is democracy in Serbia within the European Union.
From this point of view, the Council's decision to suspend negotiations on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is, I think, an important political mistake for the European Union.
Negotiations must start at once and, of course, we must see as they progress the implementation of the preconditions to cooperation with the International Criminal Court.
I close with the situation regarding minority rights in Kosovo.
We are talking about respecting Resolution&#160;1244 passed in 1999.
I am delighted to see that Mr&#160;Poettering is also with us today, as a difficult task will face us during his presidency of the European Parliament.
For this reason, it seems to me that our discussion should focus on what our Parliament can do to facilitate the future path of Kosovo.
Our first task should be to ensure clearer communication with the Serbian Parliament and to help Serbian politicians understand that Kosovo has already been independent for a considerable period of time.
Secondly, we must have direct cooperation with the body which will build democracy in Kosovo, the Kosovo Assembly.
Here in Parliament, we can make a great contribution in this respect, and the Council can make an even greater contribution.
Commissioner Frattini and the Council should do more to minimise the number of such incidents in the future.
The third difficulty we are facing is the disrespect shown to the different cultures in Kosovo and in this context the Serbian Orthodox Church is playing a very negative role.
As long as the Serbian Orthodox Church refuses to look to the future, we will have great difficulty convincing the Serbian community in Kosovo to integrate itself into the democratic institutions of Kosovo.
We have offered the Western Balkans a European future.
This is why, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude my speech by calling on us all, as Members of the European Parliament, to make our voices heard and ensure that the question of status is resolved now and not delayed until next year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs&#160;Lehtomäki, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, during the discharge for the 2004 Budget in April, Parliament, on two occasions, made very explicit statements with regard to the European Agency for the Reconstruction of the former Yugoslavia and Kosovo.
Five months after Parliament’s resolution, five months after Parliament’s explicit statements, the Commission is taking no notice of what we said.
A second consideration is that people are being deported to Kosovo, even though many people find the situation there utterly intolerable.
Joachim Rücker has been put in charge of UNMIK.
What I would like to know is how, in practical terms, the Commission envisages the future status of Kosovo.
That is something we have to take into account, and that is why the European Union still needs to be involved there, firstly in building up the police force – something that is very important indeed – and, secondly, in building up the legal system and the administration, for I share Commissioner Rehn’s view that this is where resources need to be made available, but Kosovo’s economic development will be dependent most of all on peace, stability and functioning institutions, and it is to these that our efforts must be particularly devoted.
This will also involve resolving the issue of which military forces are to perform the function of keeping Kosovo secure once it is independent, and I could well imagine a similar solution being arrived at to that found for Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the KFOR being replaced by European armed services.
Greater involvement by the European Union in this area would also be in line with our security policy – or with the security policy of which I am an advocate.
What is important is that we, at this stage in the development of our security policy, should prioritise our efforts in our geographical neighbourhood, and the stabilisation of the Balkans continues to be our most important task. &#160;&#160; Madam President, integrating the Western Balkans into the European Union is one of the most significant challenges facing European policy over the coming years.
The issue relates to an area of Europe inhabited by numerous nationalities and ethnic groups, communities divided by country, religion, history and the bloody disintegration of Yugoslavia in the nineteen-nineties.
Kosovo is the Gordian knot of European policy in this region.
The United Nations mission is now preparing for withdrawal from Kosovo.
This means that the European Union must be prepared to assume its role there in 2007.
The first challenge for the European Union in this new situation will be the as yet undefined status of Kosovo.
The recent UN-hosted talks in Vienna on 24 July did not lead to any breakthrough.
In a peculiar form of psychological war, the Serbian authorities have, in recent days, accused the UN special envoy on the future status of Kosovo Martti Ahtisaari of lacking impartiality in the negotiations.
On the other hand, the political advisor to the Albanian premier Koço Danaj stated that by 2013, all Albanians living in the Balkans should unite and integrate within a natural Albania.
These events of this summer, which overshadow the Middle East conflict, constitute a major problem which the institutions of the European Union need to tackle over the coming months.
Another challenge is organising the future EU mission in Kosovo.
This problem relates to funding, structure, staffing and above all the EU’s political strategy in the Western Balkans.
No other country or international organisation will replace the European Union in its historic role of guaranteeing democracy, peace and social welfare, based on respect for diversity, in this part of the continent. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, reports about Kosovo describe the province as having become ghettoised.
During seven years of international administration, the different ethnic groups have concentrated themselves in their own areas.
One main reason for why standards have not been achieved, despite the massive input that there has been, is that Kosovo is one of the main havens for organised crime in Europe.
International human trafficking and the trade in territory and weapons are rampant in Kosovo.
Now the global actors involved in the programme, however, have much too little time and too few staff for their many areas of responsibility.
Finally, I would like to say that now that the EU is also focusing its attention on Lebanon, we should think about just how aware we are of what has happened in Kosovo and whether there might be something to learn from it for the operation in Lebanon. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the ugly situation and impoverishment of the peoples of the Former Yugoslavia are the result of foreign intervention, the unfair and dirty war unleashed by ΝΑΤΟ with the participation of numerous countries of the European Union.
The creation of a protectorate, of an independent state is being promoted in Kosovo with the presence of a huge military force and a huge American base, so that you can control the area and change the borders.
We consider that the only solution which there can be is for all the foreign troops to leave the Balkans and for the people in the area to find a solution to their problems.
To close, I would advise you to look to history: just as the peoples of the Balkans expelled foreign conquerors, they will expel the new conquerors as well. &#160;&#160; It is obvious that the independence of Kosovo is inevitable, but the kind of independence this is to be will have a long-term effect on the stability of all of South Eastern Europe.
We must take this into account as well, just as we must reflect on the fact that Milosevic had stripped Kosovo as well as Voivodina of their autonomy.
Everyone is talking about Kosovo’s independence, but no one mentions the minorities in Voivodina or the situation of the Muslims of Sandjak.
I share all the concerns of my fellow Member Mr&#160;von&#160;Wogau. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, but above all, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, perhaps I might be permitted, at the end of the debate, to try to sum up the key points.
I think, as many Members have said, that failure on the part of the EU is not an option, for that would be detrimental to both the region and the EU, and that is something we cannot afford.
It is a sort of new role, where we, on the one hand, need to let go of some things and, on the other hand, need to keep control in a divided society, where not all problems will turn out to have been resolved following independence.
At the moment, everyone in Kosovo still thinks that independence will solve everything.
As regards a military presence, I hope with all my heart that all due attention for Lebanon and Congo will not result in people thinking that things will work out in Kosovo and that we can handle things here with fewer troops.
I can do no other than support the Commissioner in his request to the Council not to ask the Commission for any more and at the same time, to make fewer funds and people available.
As has been mentioned so many times in this debate, an unconditional pre-requirement for a lasting solution is to be able to resolve the issue regarding minorities, and that is something of a multigenerational problem.
It will be on a scale never seen before and its main focus will be on the police and the rule of law.
We will need a good number of experts from the Member States of the European Union in order to carry out this operation, and it will be our challenge to find such a large number of experts.
Preparations are thus making headway in many different ways and in many different sectors, but we can surely improve their steady flow.
The Presidency is very committed to finding a solution that will satisfy all parties, but it will also naturally have to listen to the views of the other Member States.
In the Council’s view, enlargement is clearly a priority area and, accordingly, we are not proposing staff cuts there.
So there will be more staff in 2013 than next year anyway.
It is very important now – as was underlined by several speakers – to firmly support the efforts to conclude the status process within the envisaged timetable.
At the same time, there is another precondition: whatever the precise outcome of the status settlement, it must include treaty-making powers for Kosovo.
The best service that Serbia can render the Kosovo Serbs is to participate very constructively in the talks to ensure that minorities are truly protected, once the outcome of the Kosovo status settlement emerges.
Serbia has firm and tangible prospects of joining Europe.
For our part, we are willing to resume the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement even on the very same day as Serbia achieves full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, which should lead to the arrest and transfer of Radko Mladic.
It is in Serbia’s hands and Serbia can make this European aspiration a reality and release the tremendous economic, cultural and intellectual potential that exists in the country.
I should like to correct one misunderstanding, which has not occurred here but often arises, namely the belief that the Council and Commission are competing in the Western Balkans.
The Council and Commission are not competing, but cooperating fully and deeply for stability and democracy in the Western Balkans.
For instance, in relation to the rule of law, we need that cooperation because the rule of law – that is, the provisional training of judges and police – is a joint competence of the Council, the Member States and the Commission.
I am very grateful to the Finnish Presidency for its readiness to play a very constructive role in this very difficult matter.
The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is of major importance for Albania’s future.
Albania is the third country in the Western Balkans (after Macedonia and Croatia in the former Republic of Yugoslavia) with which the EU has signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
Signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement does not mean that the work has ended.
It is important that progress should be made in particular in such areas as freedom of the media, the return of property and compensation being paid, more efficient public administration and a respect for the principles of the rule of law.
We will continually stress the importance for Albania, as for the other countries in the Western Balkans, of stepping up measures to prevent corruption and organised crime.
There may be local elections in Albania in six months’ time, and Albania should ensure that it can see them through in accordance with international norms.
The current political climate in Albania is worrying and is a serious threat to the progress of reform.
Finally, I would like to remind everyone that at the European Council in June the European Union once again endorsed the EU perspective in respect of the countries in the Western Balkans.
We must nevertheless remember that each country’s progress towards EU accession stands or falls on its own merits in its attempts to meet EU requirements.
The Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement provide Albania with the best possible framework for its own attempts.
The SAA creates significant obligations in terms of trade, rule of law, democratic standards and fundamental rights, regional cooperation and new legislation.
I am sure it will also help to achieve a minimal degree of consensual political culture and underline the fact that a successful country in the European Union, or in the accession or pre-accession process, needs a broad political consensus on the question of European aspirations, as well as a basic consensus on a democratic culture in the country.
I would sum up my report as follows.
The SAA and the interim agreement offer a golden opportunity for Albania to modernise itself and become a competitive market economy, the sine qua non for joining the EU.
Secondly, genuine economic development requires a stable and transparent legal environment.
Today, citizens of a small country with a European perspective have a less favourable visa regime with the EU than a large country with no membership prospects – Russia.
The report notes that a recent Amnesty International report was critical of Albania for violations of human rights in areas of access to legal defence, the problems of torture and brutality towards prisoners, and so on.
The report says that electoral legislation must be reformed.
The report underlines the need for Albania to continue with its responsible attitude towards neighbouring countries, particularly towards Kosovo and FYROM.
I have received six amendments.
In my opinion, Amendment 3 on the treatment of prisoners is already covered in the report.
To conclude, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this report, but I would especially like to single out Mrs Pack, the dynamo driving so much of this House’s approach to bringing the Balkans into Europe. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, first of all my honourable friend, Mr&#160;Ilves, deserves fulsome congratulations on the very important work he has carried out on this important motion, which reflects the current state of relations between the European Union and Albania and highlights all the major problems and challenges facing the Albanian Government and the Albanian political forces.
It is a fact that the signature of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement opens a new path for Albania towards Europe, towards the European institutions, with the ultimate objective of integration into the European family.
We must always remember this; it is what the European strategy decided in Thessaloniki says and I believe that the European Union has every strategic interest, despite enlargement fatigue, to strengthen these European prospects of the countries of the Balkans.
Clearly a great deal still needs to be done in Albania, as Mr&#160;Ilves has pointed out.
I should like to touch in particular on two or three points.
On the question of combating corruption, we are of course all agreed.
However, under no circumstances should the present Albanian Government use combating corruption as a pretext to settle political accounts with the opposition forces.
This is very important, because it will help to smooth out political life and consolidate a democratic political system.
The third issue is respect for the freedom of the media and, of course, the prevention of government interference in its operation.
Finally, respect for minorities.
It is for that reason that I am particularly pleased that we are able, today, to vote to approve this stabilisation and association agreement, something I welcome as an important step towards a relationship of trust between Albania and the EU, which will help Albania and its politicians to give the country the political, economic and institutional stability that it needs.
It will be very difficult to make progress down this road; to do so, it will be necessary to achieve the standards required, as laid down in the agreement, and for this Parliament, and our committee on relations with it in particular, to monitor this progress continuously and with the utmost precision.
We too, as good friends, will do as we have done for many years and highlight any deficiencies, including those yet to be discovered.
The government is doing a splendid job in the educational field and thereby giving the many young Albanians a bit more of a future; I very much hope that it will do everything necessary to enable them to participate in the European Union’s new educational programmes after 2007.
It is also a good thing that the government is making the effort to attract the investment that the country needs, although that will of course be conditional on the reforms in administration and the justice system that are so urgently needed.
Our resolution also highlights the need for the practice of the bloodfeud, still prevalent in many parts of Albania, to be stamped out; our call for this is founded on our European values, which, we hope, will soon guide the thoughts and actions of all Albanians.
I have no wish to conceal the fact that I found much of what happened over the summer months highly disagreeable, but, without going into unpleasant details, I would like to stress that what is urgently needed is political dialogue, and that political maturity is demonstrated by democratic behaviour and nothing else.
Albanian politicians are elected to resolve problems in a democratic manner and to perform in a constructive manner the role allotted to them, whether it involves exercising governmental responsibility or serving in the opposition.
I would like, by way of conclusion, to remind the House that we have for a long time been arguing the case for easier visa arrangements for Albania and for the other countries of South-Eastern Europe, and so we very much welcome the return agreements reached by Albania and the EU.
Albania is among the few countries that have done this, and one of the things we are calling for by means of our resolution is prompt action on the part of European governments to make it easier for students, academics and businessmen to get visas, with, of course, a more relaxed visa regime for all citizens following on as soon as possible.
We too welcome the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and will vote in favour of it here today.
Our group will continue to support Albania in the steps it will have to take as it moves towards European integration.
This signing does not mean that the Albanian Government, which has presented the concluding of this agreement as an important victory, can rest on its laurels, and I hope that people in Albania are aware of this.
Those are all issues which the European Union will need to monitor closely, even after the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
Finally, we have perceived a degree of political polarisation in that country that concerns us.
We would therefore like to urge the government and opposition to adopt a mainly pragmatic and constructive approach, for only then can Albania fully utilise the scope which this agreement offers. &#160;&#160; .
Another neighbour, Macedonia, has been granted the status of a candidate country and is only awaiting a date to begin negotiations.
These are all changes for the better and the Albanian political elite should take advantage of these changes to boost economic development and, in particular, social development.
The Albanian political elite has to make greater efforts to combat corruption and pave the way for economic, political and legal development.
Only those who realise their mistakes can remedy them.
We all know that this process is far from complete, and various Members, along with Commissioner Rehn, have already drawn attention to the really critical aspects that can all be summed up under the overarching heading of ‘enforcement of the rule of law’.
Earlier on, in the debate on Kosovo, we pointed out that our budget for the period from 2007 to 2013 does not exactly inspire confidence.
There is also – as my colleagues have repeatedly emphasised – a need for further support in areas such as the improvement of environmental conditions, sustainable energy and transport infrastructure and in the establishment of truly independent media.
Whilst the millions of Albanians who live around Albania along the south edge of Montenegro, in the largest part of Kosovo and in the north-west of Macedonia, fight for language rights and self-government, they expect little in the way of positive developments if they were to join forces with Albania in its current state.
Moreover, public opinion would prefer to keep Albania outside of the European Union.
The country is now mainly renowned for child trafficking, the pyramid schemes, wasting energy, prisoner abuse and international crime.
Its problems appear to be beyond any solution.
During preparatory discussions, it transpired that other groups are more optimistic than my own about the course of affairs in Albania, and that they feel less inclined to invite Albania to change.
Despite this difference of opinion, my group shares their view that continued isolation and exclusion from European cooperation offer no solution to Albania’s enormous problems.
In our opinion, the neighbourhood policy and association agreements should not unilaterally serve the interests of the current EU Member States, but should primarily help possible future EU members gain ground. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolution on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the Republic of Albania should be considered extremely carefully and extremely positively.
This agreement will promote increasingly strong and extensive contractual relations between Albania and the European Union; it will certainly promote political, economic and institutional stability in that country; and it will promote Albania’s transition both towards a full, pluralist democracy that respects the rule of law, and towards a market economy.
The main benefits of the agreement are the creation of a free trade zone, a serious commitment to cooperation in areas of mutual interest and, above all, the promotion of a more stable legal environment that will reassure foreign investors.
However, these are the facts and we must examine them.
In October 2002, the Commission said association negotiations should not commence.
Elections were held in Albania on 2&#160;July and the results came out on 2&#160;September, meaning that the democratic construct is not working properly, that something is not right in the public administration sector in this country.
There are Greek companies which have invested several million euros and, precisely because they could not stand the mafia which imposed its own extortionate taxes, they are abandoning their building sites and machinery and moving out.
We come here, the civilised people of Europe, the representatives of the people of Europe, and decide not to let Serbia into the Union but to let Albania in.
There is a great deal of drug trafficking and, of course, apart from anything else, and this is a political issue which I believe, with guidance, will be brought under control, there is rampant chauvinism which is not confined solely to Kosovo or Skopje, where we saw disruptions a few years ago, but is directed against Greece.
When a country is deprived of the freedom of the press, it is deprived of basic rights.
This country needs education and strict schooling before it accedes to the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party, which endorses this draft resolution.
I am quite sure that Prime Minister Berisha has learned much from the mistakes that were made in the past, and that his approach to things is a quite different one.
I am convinced that the Agreement will help strengthen the process of political, economic and institutional stabilisation in Albania and will help strengthen civil society, the process of democratisation and public administration reforms.
Something that I consider very significant is the emphasis placed by the Agreement on developing regional cooperation, and I should like to focus on this point for a couple of minutes.
The main aspects of this cooperation should be to strengthen political dialogue with all of Albania’s neighbours and also to create a free trade area in Southeast Asia.
The introduction of such freedoms should significantly strengthen overall cooperation across the region, including cooperation between Albania and the aforementioned Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
For these reasons, I warmly welcome the fact that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement explicitly states that Albania’s readiness to conclude agreements of this nature with its neighbours will be one of the conditions for further developing relations between Albania and the EU. &#160;&#160; – Perhaps I did not hear correctly but I am sure that Albania is in the Balkans, rather than in Southeast Asia.
Generally, I agree that the most important thing is for all Balkan countries to have the opportunity to conclude agreements with the EU.
It is wonderful that three years ago, in June 2003, the Thessaloniki European Council consolidated Europe’s position on Albania.
I am not entirely sure whether the progress achieved is comparable with other countries in the region.
It is clear that, in comparison with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania is a stable country.
I am of course not sure whether highly porous borders, large-scale migration and problems with law enforcement, together with specific difficulties in foreign trade and a near collapse in energy supplies are even partially acceptable for a country aspiring to sign an EU Association Agreement.
However, a couple of months ago, the Albanian foreign minister referred to this idea and at the end of August the political adviser to the Albanian prime minister stated that, by 2013, all Albanians living in the Balkans should integrate within the borders of a ‘natural Albania’, as he defined it.
They were not one hundred percent fault-free, but we must acknowledge the progress the Albanians have made towards democracy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Albania is both a creative coincidence of the will of the country in question for a more intense European orientation and the will of the European Union and its Member States for the fuller integration of Albania into the European structures.
The agreement in question extends the European plan for security, stability, democracy, the rule of law and protection of fundamental rights to the area of the Western Balkans; a plan of good governance, respect for minority rights and the consistent cultivation of good neighbourly relations, a plan of economic reform, development and the modernisation of infrastructures, open to cross-border cooperation and to regional, economic and political integration.
Within the framework of the required adjustment, administrative, police and judicial modernisation in order to combat organised crime and corruption, the greatest possible participation of civil society in the political process and the establishment of viable and transparent mechanisms for the operation of the market economy are vying for first place.
The benefits which are expected to emerge both for the Albanian people and for the Union itself are obvious.
Can you tell me what the ratio, the weighting is between these two principles? &#160;&#160; I would like to thank Mr&#160;Toomas Hendrik Ilves for his thorough and detailed report.
The path of Albania towards the European Union is probably the rockiest one in comparison with other countries of the continent.
The scars of Albanian isolation from the world are still much deeper than in any other post-Communist state.
Today, Albania, just as other Western Balkan countries, is attracted by the magnetism of the European Union.
The implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and sharing the experience of the states which were successful in approaching and joining the European Union, should help Albania reach a decisive turn on the path towards Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Albania was concluded in June.
In theory, this means a first step towards accession to the European Union.
Economic problems, of course, and I would, for example, draw your attention to the fact that no less than 60% of the active population are employed in the agricultural sector.
In a predominantly Islamic country such as Albania, we also notice unacceptable practices, including bloodfeuds.
As it happens, there is certainly no support structure in place for the accession of a country such as Albania, not now nor in 15 or 20 years, and so it is better that we do not give the Albanians expectations which we in the European Union cannot deliver upon.
It will therefore not be the first time that public opinion in Europe appears to have more common sense than those responsible for making policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I have no doubt personally that Albania must have European prospects.
It is positive both for this country and for the area of the Balkans and southeast Europe as a whole.
That is why we are signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in question.
Nonetheless, it is also true that, at the same time, there are a great many problems in this country.
My honourable friends have already referred to corruption, to problems in relation to the freedom of the press and to the way in which electoral rolls and so forth are prepared.
The first is compliance on the part of Albania with the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of National Minorities.
However, other issues remain, Commissioner, such as the translation of legislation into minority languages, the signposting of local traditional names, an increase in personnel dealing with minority issues and so forth.
The third issue that I wish to emphasise is the restoration of and compensation for property because, even though the law on this issue was passed back in 2004, there is a problem of lack of transparency, abuse and procedural irregularities.
It is the responsibility of the European Commission to put what is contained in the text into practice with pressure on and cooperation with the Albanian authorities. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, representatives of the Commission and Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Council decision on the EU-Albania agreement is a highly positive step.
In strategic terms, the project to unify the continent according to the principles of democracy, peace and development must include Albania and the Balkans as leading players in the new Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, representatives of the Council, I would like to draw your attention to Chapter&#160;7, which deals with justice, freedom and security, since the rule of law, civil liberties and internal security are quite simply essential to a country’s security, and economic investment – which results in economic development and also social security – is dependent on them being present.
Development in Albania has followed a similar path to that in other states undergoing transformation.
Having seen it for myself, I can tell the House that Mr&#160;Berisha’s government is getting stuck in by prioritising an internal security programme and making use of its cooperative arrangements with Europe, for example in police projects with PAMECA (Police Assistance Mission of the EU to Albania), in customs and justice projects at parliamentary level, and, in particular, of the support given by the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe under its special coordinator Erhard Busek.
I also hope that there will be enhanced cooperation between the EU and South-Eastern Europe, and I would particularly like to see Albania playing its part in developing the SECI Centre in Bucharest, which is a base for cooperation between police forces that could be the seedbed for something like a South-East European version of Europol and present an opportunity for combating organised crime.
Agreements, and the implementing of agreements, represent both a major challenge and an opportunity, not only to Albania, but also to us, to the European Union as a whole. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and the Republic of Albania is a major achievement by the European Union on the road to the integration of the Western Balkans with the European Union.
Albania, with its population of three-and-a-half million Muslims in the centre of the European continent is an important bridge for building a future Europe based on intermingling of cultures and tolerance for different religious traditions and civilisations.
The EU Agreement gives Albania the opportunity to modernise, to build a lasting democracy, and for economic reform.
The present stage of relations between the European Union and Albania have set the political elite and Albanian civil society new tasks and perspectives.
Albania now needs to re-direct its national interests towards European integration and peaceful co-existence within the European community, and to reflect on its own history and its role in the modern world.
The second issue is the rule of law, combating organised crime, and increasing the level of democracy.
The third problem is women’s rights.
There must be an end to violence against women in the family, and to eliminate the negative phenomena which Amnesty International referred to in its report of 30&#160;March this year. &#160;&#160; – I too would like to join my colleagues in welcoming with pleasure the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Albania.
As indicated in the European partnership adopted by the Council with Albania earlier this year, Albania has several objectives to meet, both in the short-term and over a number of years.
It must be clear that a global and courageous reform is required in the country, so that these objectives can be achieved; a root and branch reform, so to speak, in several sectors, in particular with regard to the administrative capacity of Albania’s public administration.
Greater progress is required with regard to the civil rights of the Albanian people and in the justice sector.
My country, Malta, also went through a similar change.
Over a period spanning almost twenty years it has undergone a phenomenal transformation.
However, the difficult road we embarked upon enabled us to meet the Copenhagen criteria, thus allowing us to join the European family within the European Union, just as many other countries did.
Today this Parliament should send a clear message to the Albanian people, the message that the European Parliament is closely following the developments affecting the Albanian people and that they can count on our support and good will. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I welcome the conclusion of this stabilisation and association agreement between Albania and the European Union.
Many Albanians live from subsistence farming and only a few products are exported.
One of the main practical measures connected with strengthening this perspective is obviously visa flexibility, and we support the aim to have the mandates for talks on a visa flexibility agreement adopted by the Council during the last six months of this year and for these talks to be concluded with all the countries in the Western Balkans some time next year.
As has been said often in this debate, much has been done in Albania to strengthen its European perspective, but there is still a lot to be done.
I am, however, pleased that a new political agreement was reached last week, reflecting a new consensus on media and electoral reform.
The Commission has underlined, both to the Government and to the opposition, the need to restart discussions without delay in the Ad&#160;Hoc Parliamentary Committee on Electoral Reform.
I agree fully with Mr Hatzidakis that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement helps us to coach the country towards European standards as regards electoral reform.
The Government of Albania has demonstrated a strong will to make serious progress in that field.
The Commission will report on Albania’s progress in the context of this year’s enlargement package in October or November.
I am very glad that the European Parliament has invested a lot of time and energy in monitoring and pursuing political dialogue with Albania.
I am sure that together we can achieve positive results in terms of coaching Albania towards its European future.
Europe is the main market for seal products.
I thank with all my heart all the colleagues who signed this resolution.
The last time the EU made a reduction in its market for seal products, in the 1980s, it led to a virtual closing-down of the hunt.
I urge the Commission to propose legislation as quickly as possible in order to scale back next year's hunt, which will start in March.
I should like to point out to you that all of the amendments in the report were unanimously adopted at our sitting in June, that we consider data protection to be closely connected with the VIS and the SIS II, and that we therefore need this instrument quickly.
We had a moral obligation from the Council.
The Finnish Presidency is calling on us to deal with this issue as part of the debate on the future of the area of freedom, security and justice, as provided for at the second September part-session.
With data protection being, as it is, a political priority for our Parliament, I should like the Council to make a formal commitment before our Assembly to swiftly adopt the framework decision and to do everything in its power to involve Parliament in the debates.
The Agreement forms part of the new partnership approach to the external dimension of the Common Fisheries Policy, which the EU is seeking to implement.
The objective of the Agreement is to develop and improve fishing conditions in the Union of the Comoros, which should benefit from part of the funding granted by the EU for the purpose of providing new infrastructure and technology that is better equipped for the sustainable management of the country’s fisheries resources.
For its part, the EU will guarantee, in another third country, fishing opportunities that will help keep its long-distance fishing fleet operational.
I therefore believe that this report should be adopted.
This neighbourhood policy should also be sufficient to address the enormous problems which that country is facing and which rule out any prospect of joining the EU.
Accordingly, I have voted against this resolution on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Albania, on the grounds that it represents a first step – and let us not labour under any misconceptions here – towards Albanian accession, and Europe, as in the case of Turkey, chooses to ignore the opinion of its public. &#160;&#160; In spite of its sound references to a social economy, this report, which appears to extol growth, unfortunately has a preponderance of negative features.
The public propaganda campaigns it proposes for selling the message that the world community is in need of reform are out of keeping with the times, as are the demands for a more extensive internal market in pursuit of unsustainable growth.
There are references identifying the draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe as a means of strengthening social Europe, when the draft Constitution, on the contrary, entailed further steps towards the neo-liberal internal market and military rearmament.
In this way, voters are being lied to. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the MEPs from the Czech Civil Democratic Party have voted against the report on a European social model for the future.
The report correctly points out that there is no genuine European social model, and yet, significantly, it describes a series of values that we jointly recognise and sets out the problems that each country must resolve in its social policy.
The report is a good starting point for future debate, but we do not support the solution that it puts forward.
In our view, the report will lead to restrictions on competition in the social and tax fields, and to a loss of Member State sovereignty over these areas. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I voted against the Peneda/De Rossa report on the grounds that the European Social Model is an achievable proposition only if the number of the unemployed and of those living below the poverty line is reduced.
What we need to do, , is to take long-term action to address the problems of dismantled social services and of wage dumping, and, in particular, to become clear in our own minds about the fact that a social model cannot be founded upon part-time working and subsistence wages, which is why we need more people in full-time employment and high minimum standards across Europe.
This report outlines some very promising initiatives which I support, while being satisfied that, in its wisdom, the European Parliament has rejected the proposal to legislate on services of general interest, since at present it is clear that the time is not right for such a step.
It would have been easy to vote against the whole report because of these points alone.
The key to our final vote was the need for reform.
My Amendment 1 spelled this out specifically and was readily embraced by colleagues within the EPP-ED Group.
The prize has been formal recognition for the very first time by the majority of MEPs that the European social model does indeed need to be reformed.
We also regret the rejection of our proposal for a macroeconomic framework to support sustainable development, with stronger internal demand that is environmentally friendly and compatible with full employment, in such a way as to deliver economic and social cohesion.
Parts of these proposals may be commendable in themselves, but we in the June List are emphatic in stressing that, in our view, the political areas dealt with by the report should fall exclusively within the competence of the Member States.
I share the view in recital N that the Member States should have competence when it comes to funding services of general interest and to taking decisions in this area, but I was forced to vote against this recital because of the reference to the Constitution.
However, the report recognises the need for any reform of social systems to be non-regressive and to meet essential needs: a core income is essential to that goal.
We hope that this report will be a valuable tool in our discussions with the Council and Commission and that other legislation will protect, not undermine, social Europe. &#160;&#160; . – For a long time, Western Europe constituted a model of economic and social success, based on thriving agriculture, powerful industry, dynamic and homogeneous peoples, and solid nation-states that guaranteed their nationals both free enterprise and social protection.
For twenty years, the Europe of Brussels without borders, in collusion with our governments, has been abandoning our industries to competition from the Asian economies, which practice social dumping, letting in more than a million non-European immigrants each year, practising a genuine form of Malthusianism against our farmers and dismantling our social protection systems and our family policies.
Labour MEPs analyse each legislative proposal on a case-by-case basis in relation to their impact on UK business and the workforce.
Nothing in our voting for the De Rossa report runs counter to this approach.
We must become more competitive and help to improve our citizens' quality of life.
We must comply with Lisbon to ensure economic coordination measures and employment and social protection policies, which will, in turn, deliver economic growth, increased competitiveness and the creation of more and better jobs, in a sustainable fashion.
Much remains to be done, both here and in our capital cities.
In the EU we can balance the single market with social justice.
The only thing that will remain in place will be the lowest possible level of protection from absolute impoverishment, in order to avoid social uprisings. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I also voted against the Bowis report, my reason for doing so being that we really should not be surprised at the increase in mental illness.
That those who have deep roots in family-mindedness, patriotism and their national identity are less prone to mental illness is not a matter of doubt. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted for the report on acknowledging the importance of mental illness in Europe, the rapporteur of which is my friend John Bowis, who alone has ensured that this important topic will be addressed in the best possible manner.
An admirer of his by the name of Silvana Moggi has come from Italy, specifically from the town of Salsomaggiore (the town where Miss Italy was elected), to be here in the gallery because she wanted to be present when her great idol John Bowis presented his extremely important proposal for debate, so that all of us in Europe can be treated in the best possible way even when we have the misfortune of having mental illnesses and not just physical illnesses. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the excellent report by Mr&#160;Bowis on the motion for a resolution of the European Parliament – towards a strategy on mental health for the European Union.
In a world which is becoming more complicated under pressure from enormous, dramatic and rapid changes, we are faced with the collective challenge to understand, prevent and treat mental health problems while avoiding the stigmatisation, rejection or, worse still, contempt, of sufferers.
The European Union must offer an example by guaranteeing its citizens a mentally healthy life.
The role of legislators in this area is even greater as we in the EU and Member States can with consultation and partnership create a better and brighter future for sufferers, family and carers.
There are no reasons why the European Parliament should have views on what appropriations should be granted to the mental health world and on what measures should be taken in this area.
Too often mental health is the Cinderella of our health services, yet the implications of poor mental health are a drain on all resources as well as personally disastrous.
I also support Parliament’s request to play its full role by denying the European Commission the opportunity to decide on ‘technical measures’ by itself.
I will therefore vote in favour of this report, even though I would have liked it to have gone further in terms of demanding a specific plan for Mediterranean fisheries.
Among its key points are the following: the frontloading (prior consultation at an early stage) of the institutions directly or indirectly involved in the assessment of fisheries resources, that is to say consultation with the Regional Advisory Councils and the Advisory Committee on Fisheries and Aquaculture; more frequent use of impact analysis of measures that may be implemented; and the revision of the legal structure of existing provisions with a view to making texts clearer, more consistent, more understandable and easier to read, deleting obsolete provisions.
I should also like to highlight the need for the Commission to extend its process of improving the procedures as regards the partnership agreements, more specifically the process of monitoring and implementing those agreements.
These objectives are commendable.
The simplification of procedures, clear and comprehensible wording for all interested parties, the allowance of sufficient time between the adoption and implementation of legislation and, too, the assessment of its economic, social and environmental impact are issues that must be thought through clearly in the interests of transparency and fairness in implementing legislation.
This process must not, however, act as a pretext for trying to undermine what has been regulated, and there must be monitoring on the part of national parliaments, the European Parliament and the sector and its organisations representing the workers.
My view, and that of many Scots, is that the CFP should be concerned with the market in fisheries products, but that control and management of the resource and of catching opportunities should be returned to Scotland. &#160;&#160; . – The plans are coming thick and fast, the European Fisheries Fund is replacing FIFG, the advisory committees are multiplying, and the Community Fisheries Control Agency is developing its activities, but none of that is leading to an improvement in the fishermen’s work situation.
Two key problems have been overlooked in this report, even though, in the long term, they will determine whether or not the French fishing fleet stays: the unfair competition from non-EU fishing vessels that do not comply with all of the restrictions imposed on our fishermen in matters concerning legislation, control and monitoring, and the cost of fuel ever since Brussels called on France to do away with the fund for the prevention of risks to fishing, or fuel fund.
The legislation certainly needs to be simplified, but that will do nothing to improve the situation of our fishermen.
There now remain only 5&#160;500 fishing vessels.
These measures will bring benefits for both the fishing community and consumers.
Accordingly I have voted against this report. &#160;&#160; . – The European Parliament is giving its verdict today on two fishing agreements that are of importance in relation to the Indian Ocean: one with the Republic of Seychelles and the other with the Republic of the Comoros.
These agreements, which are scheduled to last for six and seven years respectively, on a renewable basis, have the following objectives: economic, financial, technical and scientific cooperation in the fisheries sector; the laying down of conditions for Community fishing vessels to access the territorial waters of the Seychelles and the Comoros; and the setting up of partnerships between companies with the aim of developing, in the common interest, economic activities coming under the fisheries sector and any activities related thereto.
A financial contribution will be paid to the Seychelles and the Comoros in return for the exploitation of their fishery resources.
As an elected representative from overseas who is aware of the role of fishing in the overseas economy, and particularly that of Réunion, I am pleased that Europe is helping to establish both a responsible form of fishing in the Indian Ocean and the sustainable exploitation of its fishery resources.
That is why I voted in favour of these two agreements. &#160;&#160; Before moving on to the next item, I have a communication for the House.
In fact, Rule&#160;166 does not specify clearly whether the point of order for which the floor is given must refer to the issue being debated or to that day’s agenda, or whether it can refer to any other issue.
I am pleased to say that the EU has managed to live up to those expectations and to play an important, and even leading, role in putting a stop to the hostilities, in keeping the ceasefire and in the efforts made to move forward the political process needed to consolidate the peace.
The substance of those conclusions subsequently became the basis for United Nations Security Council Resolution&#160;1701 which brought a ceasefire, outlined the political agreement needed to restore the full integrity and sovereignty of Lebanon and created the new UNIFIL Mark 2 force needed to ensure implementation of the resolution.
Indeed, the central lesson to be learned from this conflict is that there are neither military nor unilateral solutions to any of the outstanding issues and conflicts in the Middle East.
The role of the EU Member States has remained central since the adoption of Resolution&#160;1701.
At our second extraordinary Council meeting on 25&#160;August, in which the United Nations Secretary General Kofi&#160;Annan also participated, we were able to ensure that UNIFIL can and will be brought up to strength and deployed as the EU Member States responded to the United Nations request by contributing up to 7000 troops.
UNIFIL is not an EU operation and it is important that other members of the United Nations, including, in particular, many Islamic countries, are contributing to the operation.
There is a need to move troops into the area quickly in order to avoid a security vacuum while the IDF withdraws and the Lebanese armed forces gradually deploy into southern Lebanon.
In order to restore peace and security, UNIFIL’s mission is to ensure the withdrawal from southern Lebanon and to help the Lebanese Government and army to extend their authority to that area and to all of Lebanon.
The ceasefire has, notwithstanding some deplorable incidents, been respected.
The Lebanese Government remains united and all the political parties, including Hizbollah, have pledged their support for Resolution&#160;1701 and the political agreement it incorporates.
The role of the European Union in terms of humanitarian aid and the early recovery and reconstruction of Lebanon has been remarkable.
The European Union’s humanitarian aid response has been swift and significant.
All our efforts – the political agreement, reconstruction and support for the integrity and sovereignty of Lebanon with the presence of a strong UNIFIL&#160;– are vital for peace and stability in that country.
It is also crucial that outside actors and neighbours support this.
In my own contacts with Syria, as in meetings with others, we have welcomed Syria’s stated intention and readiness to respect Resolution&#160;1701 and lend support to its implementation and, moreover, also to be constructive in a comprehensive Middle East peace process.
For all of us in the Council, it has always been clear that there cannot be any sustainable stability and peace in Lebanon, or elsewhere in the region, without a return to the peace process between Israel and Palestine that is based on the roadmap and its goal of the two-state solution, with Israel living in peace and security with an independent and viable Palestinian State as its neighbour.
Unfortunately, many aspects of the roadmap have, and continue, to come under attack.
We have had an uncertain situation in which the international community has had to suspend its direct assistance to the Palestinian Administration while trying to ensure that the humanitarian needs of the Palestinians are met and their access to education and medical services is maintained.
All the requisite elements are well known and are to be found in the roadmap and other documents.
But putting these in the right order remains a challenge.
At our discussions at the Gymnich held in Lappeenranta last week we were in full agreement that the EU must now take an active role in initiating a return to the peace process.
We need to work closely with all our partners in the Quartet, and in particular with the United States, as well as with the Arab league, whose renewed determination to engage in the process is to be welcomed.
For a long time people in the region have wanted nothing more than peace and security, and they have become increasingly frustrated by their leaders’ inability or even unwillingness to deliver this, thus fostering a climate which has allowed extremism to thrive.
It is therefore necessary for the EU and others to entice, cajole, push and pressure the parties and to be prepared, where and when necessary, to engage on the ground as well.
The need for a new international conference on the Middle East has been put forward by many.
There is much support for that idea in the Council, but there is also recognition that this is not something that can start immediately, before the parties have agreed to come to such a conference and before there is the prospect of such a conference bringing positive results that can further the peace process.
They are a stark and cruel reminder that security and stability cannot be imposed unilaterally without dialogue or diplomacy.
Europe is fully engaged with Lebanon and determined to play a strong role in supporting the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1701 and in finding lasting peace for the region.
EU Member States are making a decisive contribution to the expanded UNIFIL peacekeeping force in support of the rapid extension of the Lebanese Government’s authority throughout Lebanon.
The European Union is at the forefront of diplomatic efforts to remove the continuing air and sea blockades of Lebanon.
From the outset of the conflict, the European Commission has been very active on the ground, supporting our partners and their people when they most needed us.
Over the past six weeks, the Commission has mobilised and coordinated a very important European response to the urgent needs caused by the conflict.
From the second week of the conflict onwards, we provided rapid humanitarian assistance.
This will allow ECHO to continue its action in support of essential early recovery, notably for water, sanitation and housing, thus bringing our total humanitarian support to over EUR 50 million.
The Commission also helped to coordinate and support evacuation efforts, providing EUR 11 million in support of the evacuation of third-country nationals caught up in the conflict, in response to a request from the Foreign Minister of Cyprus to provide urgent assistance to help launch this operation quickly.
On the ground, the Commission also played an important role in assessing the situation and setting up the first coordination exercise among donors.
The Commission has also responded to the environmental disaster and has supported the Lebanese Government through the Community Civil Protection Mechanism in order to tackle the huge environmental damage.
Now we are working to assess and to address the needs relating to the reconstruction of Lebanon with a view to restoring its infrastructure, and promoting economic recovery, social development and political cohesion.
Last week at the Stockholm Conference, I announced a package of EUR 42 million to support early recovery until the end of the year.
This brings the Commission’s contribution so far to just over EUR 100 million.
I believe the European Commission has shown that it is ready to act and to act quickly.
The European Union’s contribution to meeting specific and immediate needs is crucial in order to support the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1701 and to support a lasting settlement to the conflict between Israel and Hizbollah that has for too long destabilised Lebanon and also threatened Israel.
The Lebanese population must also feel the tangible benefits of the cessation of hostilities.
A Beirut-driven reconstruction process will help to strengthen the role of the Lebanese Government.
That means pursuing the political, social and economic agenda already outlined in the EU Lebanon Action Plan.
It is not an exaggeration to say that the measures we identified together before the conflict are now more important than ever.
While international attention was drawn to Lebanon, the violence and suffering continued in the Palestinian territories and Qassam rockets continued to fall on Israeli towns and villages.
In the Palestinian territories, in order to avoid further escalation we need a return by the Palestinian militants to the ‘calm’ that held for most of 2005, the release of hostages, detainees and prisoners, as well as progress on basic issues of movement and access, which, as we know hold the key to Palestinian economic recovery and to the creation of a viable Palestinian State.
The Commission is, in principle, ready to take further action to upgrade the infrastructure and strengthen capacity on the basis of the access and movement agreement of last November.
The context must be our long-standing aim of building up the institutions of a future Palestinian State, working with the Palestinian Authority, which in turn means that the EU should be ready to respond pragmatically to the formation of a Palestinian national unity government.
We kept hospitals and healthcare centres going through the summer and we have now also provided social allowance payments that have benefited more than 600&#160;000 Palestinians directly and many more indirectly.
But with the continued political stalemate, closures and also frozen fiscal revenues, the TIM can only provide temporary relief.
We must seek ways to improve access and movement to get Israel to unblock the withheld Palestinian revenues that now amount to EUR 500 million and to get the Palestinian Authority to ensure public order and security.
The rapid escalation of violence this summer produced no victory, only victims.
We see once more the failure of military action to resolve the long drawn-out conflicts of the Middle East.
There is, then, really only one choice: we need to renew the political perspective upon which the peace process depends, including for example our position on the primacy of the 1967 borders.
By focusing on some concrete and pragmatic measures that can bring about some positive and tangible results, we can help to create the appropriate climate and facilitate a re-engagement between the parties.
I have called for an early meeting of President Abbas and Prime Minister Olmert.
Iran must also take its responsibility and demonstrate its readiness to contribute to peace and stability in the region.
Many ideas have been floated on a comprehensive approach to peace in the Middle East.
The Arab League initiative in particular deserves our full attention.
We have to turn the tragic events of this summer into an opportunity for a long-term settlement of the still open conflicts in the region.
Our credibility, and that of the Quartet and the UN, is at stake. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, none of the world’s regions has had so much suffering to endure, and over so many decades, as the Middle East, and those who bear the brunt of it are the people who want nothing more than to live in peace.
I would like to say, Mr President, how grateful I am to you for calling the group presidents to two meetings over the holiday period, and I would like to thank you, Mr&#160;Tuomioja, and you, Commission Ferrero-Waldner, for what you have done, as well as the High Representative Mr&#160;Solana for his own.
We, in the European Union, know that a military solution is impossible in the Middle East, that any solution must be political if it is to bring peace, and that peace must first be established in the minds of those who exercise responsibility.
Hizbollah is not only a political organisation, but also a military one.
Those who seek democracy in the Middle East must take note of the fact that Hizbollah’s presence in parliament and government is something that has emerged from elections.
It is not, however, acceptable that there should be a state within a state, or that a political party should, by maintaining its own militia, interfere with the effectiveness of the government and armed forces of a sovereign Lebanon.
Perhaps I – as a European, a German, and one born of the post-war generation – might be permitted to say how deeply moved I was to hear the Israeli Prime Minister say that a German contribution to the peace effort would be welcomed.
That is something quite utterly novel, the like of which was unthinkable before, and so it is right that the Federal Republic of Germany, too, together with its friends in the European Union, should make its own contribution.
The people of Palestine are equal in dignity to the Israelis or to Europeans such as ourselves, and they are entitled to live within secured borders.
We appeal to all the interested parties in Palestine, to Fatah and to Hamas, to form a real government of national unity and thereby play their part in making peace.
We Europeans find ourselves – and perhaps for the first time ever – in a new situation in that we are not only providing the humanitarian aid that matters so much to people, but are also, as part of the Quartet, helping to shape their future, which is what I urge all those involved with the Quartet to join with the European Union in doing.
I would put it in yet another way: there is not only a unique opportunity, but also a unique obligation, to do something practical, now, to bring about peaceful solutions, for it has to be said – and it has to be said here – that the USA’s solutions for the region have failed utterly, and that their failure is one of the causes of the present crisis.
Our contribution cannot be merely military but it must have a military dimension to it, among the various others that are necessary in the region.
What is needed is an overall concept, including military action on the basis of international law, humanitarian action and diplomatic activity, which does not overlook the core issue of conflict in the region, that being the need to resolve the Palestinian conflict, which is the cause of instability across the region.
Let me now set out some of the things that we Socialists regard as fundamental and necessary in terms of this overall concept.
In the present situation, though, we also have to support Lebanon, which, once its civil war was over, was on the right road towards becoming a stable, secular democracy.
Since that has, to a great extent, been brought to nothing, let us help the Lebanese people to get back to where they were before the military conflict, when the whole region had so many reasons for hope.
We also have to build up Palestine, and the primary objective here must be the provision of humanitarian aid in what is a tragic situation.
What I can say, on behalf of us Social Democrats, is that dialogue with all the forces in Palestine can no longer be evaded; it is necessary and indispensable.
We must promote and build up the structures of civil society, for it is with them, and with all the forces that favour dialogue – particularly dialogue between cultures and religions – that we must be partners.
Right now, in the situation we are in, that sort of action is indispensable – small steps, understandable steps, steps towards trust, and they include the release of prisoners and the involvement of all the forces in the region.
I would not wish to deny that there has, here in this House – and, indeed within our group – been much disappointment about the things that have been said over recent weeks in Syria and elsewhere.
Such terrorism, such blind destructive rage, is no more and no less than the outward face of a contempt for humanity that is always destructive in its effects.
Nothing can justify any kind of terrorism, and that is why it is our common task to fight against it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this summer’s conflict has claimed the lives of over 1000 people, the vast majority of whom were innocent civilians.
We must set up an independent inquiry into the civilian deaths caused by all sides in the recent conflict and, as Kofi Annan has pointed out, it will not be through the barrel of a gun, but thanks to dialogue and compromise that Hizbollah will put down their weapons and negotiate a long-term solution.
If we are to raise a new generation that is not steeped in fear and intolerance, we must build institutions that will ensure peace in the long term.
We must look, too, at a security organisation along the lines of Mr Fogh Rasmussen’s proposed conference on security and cooperation in the Mediterranean, which Mr Schulz has quoted.
We must look at how we can tie in, with a proper immigration policy, all of the countries of the Mediterranean basin.
And we must oversee all of this through the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly in which you, Mr&#160;President, have invested so much political – and no little financial – capital.
It is a crisis that has driven the European Union to the position it is in, though something Michel Barnier has called the .
After your meeting in Lappeenranta on 25 August, Mr Solana said that this was the most important decision taken by the EU for many years.
We should also thank Turkey for having the courage to help us in committing troops.
We need to discuss this problem because it is currently at the heart of the debates in Israel.
Secondly – and this is a real problem – that region, which is a target for all kinds of misfortune, is also a region in which the most political mistakes can be made.
Yet, being in politics does not come down to that; on the contrary, everything must be done to ensure that there is finally a Palestinian State and an Israeli State in which people can live safely.
In order to be in politics, one does not have to be a kind soul or Mother Teresa, one has to be able to succeed in making that region change politically.
Some European Union Member States are sending troops.
During a meeting, all of the Heads of State or Government had decided that the European contingent would be the largest in number, that it would be the Europeans’ rapid reaction force, that it would no longer be three quarters French, two thirds Italian or a quarter German, but that it would consist of Europeans who, as such, were going to represent Europe in that region.
No organisation, apart from the European Union, has the ability to change things and to work alongside the Israelis in examining how the Palestinian issue should be negotiated.
Peace will only reign in Israel if there is a Palestinian State that is fit to live in.
Secondly, we need to settle the problem concerning the borders with Syria and the Golan.
The European Union must use its influence in order to get negotiations under way.
When our children ask us what purpose Europe serves, we will be able to proudly reply: ‘Look at what we are doing in the Middle East’.
Let us recall, firstly, that a State, Israel, is shelling and starving the civilian population of Gaza, is kidnapping ministers and politicians, who are going to join the 8&#160;000 Palestinian prisoners already in detention, and has killed more than 200 people in this small region, which has become, according to the expression used by Mr&#160;Jan Egeland, the United Nations Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs, a ticking time-bomb.
Then, the same army has been pounding Lebanon for a full 34 days, making no distinction, according to Human Rights Watch, between civilians and military targets, causing the deaths of 1&#160;100 civilians, forcing a quarter of the population to move, imposing a total blockade of the country, deliberately targeting – as Mr&#160;Annan pointed out – and killing observers from the international peacekeeping force, destroying – according to the UNDP – 15&#160;000 houses and 78 bridges, demolishing the country’s vital infrastructure, ports, airports and power stations, causing a huge oil slick, and using shells that can contain as many as 644 explosive devices, with 100&#160;000 of these devices continuing to blindly kill men, women and children.
Secondly, a superpower, the United States, is supporting its ally’s strategy, both in Palestine and Lebanon, in the name of the war against terrorism, which is already underway in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Its Secretary of State compares the suffering of the people of Lebanon to the pain of giving birth to the new Middle East.
We therefore cannot be content today and in the period to come with only talking about European contributions to UNIFIL and to the reconstruction process, as important as these two issues are.
Instead of doing anything in those areas, it has suspended aid to the Palestinian institutions, delegitimised a democratically-elected government and parliament, shunned the courageous efforts of President Mahmoud Abbas to rebuild a national accord and accepted without any difficulty the closure of the only crossing points between Gaza and the outside, which it was officially controlling.
I believe that a fair and lasting peace in the Middle East comes at that price, as does Europe’s credibility in the world. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, what a lot of inaccuracies and intellectual dishonesty has been printed in a good many columns on the Middle East crisis in August and uttered by a great many politicians!
We support the UNIFIL force, which must do everything it can to guarantee disarmament and to support the legitimate Lebanese Government, in the hope that the Lebanese authorities will no longer adopt their ambiguous positions of recent weeks.
Beirut apparently wants to keep tabs on a strip of six sea miles from the coast, and naval troops from various EU Member States, including my country, the Netherlands, are invited to monitor the area outside of this strip.
The decision on this specific mandate now lies with the United Nations in any case.
I should like to hear from this Council and Commission what the UN, and its Secretary-General Mr&#160;Annan, intends to do about this, and what their attitude is in this respect, what their position is on this controversial issue, because this has, after all, a direct impact on Europe's involvement in the stabilisation of the situation around Lebanon.
It is in any event significant that even the two Hezbollah representatives in the Lebanese Government have voted against this dangerous compromise proposal.
Our debate here in Parliament should focus above all on that: the context will be the United Nations Security Council, but the initiative must inevitably come from here, from Europe, the European Union, in liaison with the United States and with the Arab League, but the central initiative being ours.
The experience of recent years and months has shown that unilateralism by itself leads nowhere, that the attempt to solve the problems of the Middle East piece by piece leads nowhere.
We need to go beyond the roadmap, beyond the specific individual Security Council resolutions on Iraq or Lebanon, and realise that the time is ripe right now for an all-encompassing approach that can somehow get all the countries involved in the region to sit down around a table for formal talks on all the unresolved issues, crisis points or areas of cooperation.
We in Europe ought to know something about that because, 30 years ago in Helsinki, we succeeded in laying the foundations for that transformation that then astounded the world a few years later.
A solution of that kind would be a solution for everyone: for the United States, which would get out of a tight corner; for Israel, which would escape from the unilateralism in which it is trapped; for the Arab League; and most of all for us, for Europe, because in that way we could revitalise the Barcelona process and Europe’s own situation at the same time. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, when during the vacation I watched the news, I felt powerless when I saw the human suffering that went on every day.
This ‘one voice’ will be an important factor if we want to have a major international role in international policy in the future.
We need to be actively involved in a vital political process to help try and establish permanent peace in the Middle East region.
It is quite clear, as Minister Tuomioja has said, that the conference should not be held immediately, as it will take time for the parties to be prepared for it.
Now, however, we need the courage and determination to seize this opportunity to genuinely bring lasting peace to the region. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, the fact that we have succeeded in obtaining a ceasefire is already an important result in a war that, in just a few weeks, has caused a great many deaths, destroyed infrastructure and the environment, and was threatening to engulf the whole region.
This initial result is the outcome of a European initiative in close cooperation with the United Nations.
Allow me to mention the active role played by my own country, Italy, and also by the Finnish Presidency and by France, which is to lead UNIFIL during this phase.
For the first time, Europe could demonstrate a united political will and the determination to play a constructive role in the Mediterranean and Middle East by equipping itself with the appropriate tools.
The Lebanese army has to regain control of the whole country, including the south, and it has to exercise a monopoly on military strength to the exclusion of Hizbollah, which in recent times has become a parallel power.
Such an outcome requires everyone to take responsibility, starting with Syria, which has a role in the region, while Israel must be persuaded to abandon the idea of the indiscriminate use of force, because that is not a path that can guarantee its security.
It has already been said that the Palestinian issue lies at the heart of the Middle East situation.
Europe’s task is to fully accept the responsibility that all the parties in the conflict now attribute to it: to support the Palestinians’ difficult internal process of forming a new government that will enable them to come out of isolation and win back the resources that Israel must return to them.
The years of experience that we have acquired show that the two sides cannot do it alone: the international community’s presence is essential, and so we could deploy the peacekeeping troops that are in Lebanon today to Gaza and the West Bank tomorrow.
It could be a first step towards restoring that agreement, in the run-up to an international conference that may lead to a stable, lasting solution for the entire area, as the President-in-Office mentioned. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon will be strengthened, and the European Union will play an important part in it.
I bear witness, in this regard, to the effectiveness of the action that has been carried out for weeks in the Democratic Republic of Congo by the European force that was deployed there to support the UN’s action.
That is why I am calling on the Council and the Commission to check whether the European forces that are to be deployed in Lebanon could not be organised in a similar way, thus enabling the European Union to do what is expected of it, namely to exercise its own responsibility.
It is clear that the unilateralism of the United States has been entirely discredited throughout the Arab world and throughout most of the world in general.
Resolution&#160;1701 arrived late and failed to make a distinction between the aggressor and the victim, but it did achieve a cease-fire and is providing an opportunity for peace.
The time has come to relaunch peace in the Middle East.
Only the weapon of politics can beat the politics of weapons. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner for their contributions so far.
That charted the way forward in terms of bringing about peace and stability not only between Israel and Palestine, but also amongst their neighbours, including Syria, Jordan, Iran, Egypt and Lebanon.
If we have seen anything over the last few months, it is the inability of the European Union to speak with a single voice; it is the failure by certain Member State governments within the European Union to agree with the majority of other Member States that has allowed this problem to continue and to get worse.
At least now, late in the day, we have agreed to head the UN peacekeeping force that is going to Lebanon.
If our own history in Europe has taught us anything, if our own experience of conflict resolution within the European Union or indeed in the wider world has taught us anything, it is that only through negotiation and dialogue can we actually achieve a lasting and just settlement.
There is now perhaps an opportunity for us to re-engage with the elected representatives of the Palestinian people – Hamas, with the Lebanese Government, with Israel and with the Governments of Syria and Iran to try to come forward with a deal.
We simply differ on two points: no, it is not Europe that will impose this political solution because not everyone in Europe wants it; it took more than three weeks – as you know, Mr&#160;Cohn-Bendit – for the Foreign Affairs ministers to meet after the start of the bombings, and that was to voice their disagreements.
Let us stop dreaming of a policy based on yet another European army, on a European navy, or on goodness knows what else.
Unfortunately, I believe that it is not Europe that can impose this political solution; I can see no political power other than France that can do so. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, woe betide the country in which an emphasis on minorities and ethnic communities prevails over the authority of the State, and woe betide disarmed States.
The right to self-defence and the right to take follow-up action do of course exist, but not the right to launch an all-out war without negotiating, without issuing an ultimatum, without declaring war and without first referring the matter to the Security Council.
Let each side shoulder its responsibilities, the rule of law also hinges on that. &#160;&#160; – Whether one likes it or not, the EU’s time on the international stage has arrived.
We must first thank the Finnish Presidency, the Commissioner and the Commission for succeeding in this regard, or for at least enabling this to happen.
The most important thing, however, is to develop a parallel political framework.
The proposal of an international conference seems very appropriate, given that the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon is an essential prerequisite, albeit insufficient on its own.
Lastly, we need to mobilise more human and financial resources because the process will take time.
As was shown by the last war in Lebanon, what we seek will be achieved neither by war and violence – which brings forth only more of the same – nor by unilateral withdrawal, particularly when not accompanied by a guarantee from the armed forces or a peace policy that there will be no more atrocities.
That being so, there can be only one peace process – one that is based on negotiations.
Mr President-in-Office, I would like to correct you on one point, in that we are not going ‘back to a peace process’, but rather, in fact, ‘forward to a peace process’, since there has not yet been a peace process that was really effective and promised to be successful.
I would like to thank you both – Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office – for having, through what you have done and what you have said over the last few weeks, helped us to get a more realistic picture, so that Europe can now really begin to play a major part in setting in motion a lasting peace process of the kind that is needed for the security not only of Israel but also of the region as a whole. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the situation in the Middle East has a direct effect on Europe, and it is unfortunate that it took a war to remind us of this fact, which has become the central focus of diplomatic efforts.
We all know that what the Middle East needs is a comprehensive political solution: two states, Israel and Palestine; peace in the region where the three countries Israel, Syria and Lebanon meet; assistance from non-radical Arab states; the pushing back of Iran and of its lackey Hizbollah.
I am very pleased that you, Mr&#160;Schulz, brought up the FDP’s idea for a CSCME (Conference on Security and Cooperation in the Middle East), as Kurt Beck has also already done.
You have our support in this, and it would be good if this were actually to come about.
Hans-Dietrich Genscher will be delighted by this.
Numerous Member States are involved in UNIFIL, the military operation in Lebanon, and units from them form the backbone of this force, but are, unfortunately, national units and not truly European ones.
However, I want to say one thing, my dear Mr Cohn-Bendit: for a party which for a long time wanted to disband Germany’s armed forces and leave NATO, I find it quite remarkable that you now attack poor Graham Watson just because the FDP has, after long discussion, adopted a well-founded position on this matter and for once is not in favour of it.
Someone in your position would be well advised to be a little more considerate.
If we had followed your security policy in those days, then Mr&#160;Onyskiewicz would not be President of this House today.
Just as it is clear that we can be grateful to the soldiers who will do their duty in this difficult region, it is also clear that we as politicians must finally create a Common Foreign and Security Policy, one which proves to be worthy of the name when things get really serious.
Let us not forget that since the end of June, over 200 Palestinians – at least 44 of them children – have been killed; nor forget that thousands more have been forced to flee their homes; nor forget that when we talk about the Israeli prisoners, who must indeed be freed, there are also 9&#160;000 Palestinian prisoners who remain in Israeli prisons, over half of whom are detained without trial; nor forget that elected Hamas parliamentarians remain under arrest.
It shows that they mean the technical construction of the new Middle East which the peoples of the region reject and both these objectives are based on the power of weapons and the infringement of international law.
The slaughter in the region will only stop if the policy of violence on the part of the strong is replaced by fair peaceful dialogue with full respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of states, especially in Palestine and more especially in Gaza, where 70% of the people are hungry and suffering.
The Palestinian ministers and parliamentarians must be released, the economic isolation of the occupied territories must be lifted immediately and talks must resume.
Nor must we forget that the core problem is the Palestinian question and whether we want lasting peace in the region. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, the resolute language heard here confirms the fact that it is necessary to make CFSP decision-making more effective.
The war in Lebanon was caused by Hizbollah kidnapping Israeli soldiers which, unsurprisingly, triggered retaliation by the Israelis and the escalating conflict we have witnessed.
Those are not the words of a political leader but of a political gangster and terrorist.
The Palestinians have elected a terrorist government under Hamas and the Lebanese have two Hizbollah terrorist representatives in their government.
By sending the protagonists more money: EUR 435&#160;million so far this year to Palestine and EUR 42 million to Lebanon.
Otherwise such payments amount to nothing more than financing terrorism. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the message given out when a foreign minister of a founding Member State of the European Union – the foreign minister of my country – walks arm in arm with a top-ranking Hizbollah representative is not a positive message for Europe to send out to its citizens, to people who seriously want peace and want to help solve the dire problems in which that area is floundering, particularly a tormented country like poor Lebanon.
We want to know, and Europe needs to know, what this force is supposed to do, what its duties are and what resources we shall have.
If anyone says, for instance, that disarming Hizbollah means transferring these noble guerrillas to the Lebanese army, we shall reply that that is not the solution to the problem and, above all, it does not correspond to the objectives that Europe, and with it the Member States taking part in UNIFIL, should be pursuing.
Furthermore, many military experts point to the dangers of intervening without a mandate that has been accurately and properly drawn up.
On this fundamental point we need to have the courage to speak out plainly and to demand suitable guarantees – this is something that Europe must do – because our soldiers are out there and it is, of course, Europe’s role. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Europe was needed, and it was the nation states that went in at the stumble, albeit in the right direction.
This is further evidence that the present structure is getting us nowhere, and it is further evidence that without the Constitution we cannot fulfil our duties to our citizens, because we lack the appropriate structures.
The sovereignty of Lebanon can only be achieved if the government alone has a monopoly on the use of force in its own country and if Hizbollah is not allowed to have weapons.
This UNIFIL force must have more opportunities to achieve better results, so that 15&#160;000 men are not reduced to the position of bystanders in the same way that 2&#160;000 soldiers have been until now, who have seen where things have been hidden but who have been unable to do anything against this concealing of weapons.
It is obvious that this must happen in cooperation with the Lebanese Government, but we must face up to this situation clearly.
I think it is at last high time that the Quartet makes a joint appearance on site and that it occupies the area with the greatest possible number of Quartet troops in order to ensure that its written demands are carried out.
Only together can they offer the necessary credibility to back up guarantees of security and to assist in constructing both a secure State of Israel and a viable Palestinian State.
We must return to a type of Madrid Conference in order to find a new beginning for the region.
I also hope that the terror ceases in Palestine, in the Gaza Strip and in the West Bank, that President Abbas finds a way to stop it, and that the Israeli actions are halted at the same time.
Israel must recognise that its own existence depends upon there being peace now that new weapons with a longer range are available.
The situation has changed: this is what we have learned from the conflict in Lebanon.
I hope that this is recognised in Jerusalem and that it is recognised in Ramallah.
If both sides want to escape eventual destruction and give their children a chance, then they must now come to an agreement, and we too should make our contribution towards achieving this. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Tuomioja, Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner, we have witnessed a tragic scenario this summer, which has ended in a bloodbath.
More than 1&#160;000 Lebanese people have been killed, the majority of whom were civilians, 1&#160;000&#160;000 people have been displaced, a country has been totally destroyed, its infrastructure is in ruins, a sea has been polluted, a farming industry has been poisoned and weapons that are probably illegal are still killing people today.
This equates to a disaster for Lebanon and many wounds for Israel, in which there has fortunately been less damage done.
What is more, during this tragedy, a scandal erupted over the UN, paralysed by the United States, being unable to obtain an immediate ceasefire, because Israel needed to be given time to finish its work on the ground.
The words have been subverted.
The war was brewing.
It is true that it involved many actors, such as Syria and Iran, but it also involved – sadly via Israel, which is a victim of the war - the United States, which is still experimenting with its disastrous concept of constructive imbalance in order to redesign the Middle East.
This concept, which ended in failure in Iraq, has been applied once again and is showing its limitations.
What is more, while the people of Lebanon were dying almost in front of the cameras, 250 Palestinians were losing their lives very quietly, under the occupation.
Nothing will be resolved in the Middle East if no solution is found to this conflict with the support of the entire international community, including the Arab countries, the Palestinians and, of course, Israel and the United States.
Europe will, of course, help rebuild Lebanon, but I defended in my group what you want, Mr&#160;Gollnisch, that is to say the notion of making those responsible for the destruction pay, not because we will have to claim back our money, but because this is a notion of justice and responsibility and because, without justice and without shouldering one’s responsibilities, there will be no peace in the Middle East. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, each one of the civilian victims of this war is a tragedy, both in Lebanon and in Israel, and it is our solidarity with those who are suffering that I should like straightaway to express in this House.
This solidarity now features among our main concerns, just as, as has been pointed out, a return to the political process and the road map do, but there is also the release of the Israeli soldiers, support for the democratisation of Lebanon – the history, traditions and culture of which have nothing to do with the terrorist ideology of Hezbollah – the lifting of the blockade of Lebanon, provided that an arms embargo is decreed, and the crucial issue of the disarmament of Hezbollah.
I should like cordially to respond to Mr&#160;Cohn-Bendit, who was asking us just now whether anyone was concerned about these issues a year ago.
I would come back to what the Commissioner was saying: Europe is now more than ever at a crossroads when it comes to finding new paths and preventing a repeat of past mistakes, something that would prove absolutely tragic. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, for a moment I found it liberating when our esteemed colleague Mr&#160;Watson said that we must look forward, rather than back.
In March 2005, this Parliament adopted a resolution condemning Hizbollah’s terrorist activities and asked the Council to take measures to deal with them.
As for the UN resolution on disarmament: there was never any initiative on the part of the European Union to ensure its implementation.
The more neutral the peacekeeping forces remain, however, the more credible they will be.
Therefore Italy and the other nations involved in UNIFIL must immediately break off all military aid agreements with Israel, such as the one signed by Italy two years ago.
The European Union should therefore formally propose to send in a buffer force between Palestine and Israel as well, and to demand that Israel comply with all the UN resolutions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the EU is using the conflict between Israel and Lebanon as a pretext for strengthening the common foreign and security policy.
Our view is that the Member States should act independently in their respective foreign policy relations and coordinate their efforts and common positions within the framework of existing international organisations.
The UN is the international organisation best placed to bring about a lasting solution to the conflict in the Middle East.
Complex foreign policy issues require long-term global solutions rather than EU measures often characterised by narrow national special interests.
The international community must become better at preventing conflicts and at increasing the UN’s ability to intervene in time.
The fact that Hizbollah, supplied by Iran and Syria, was able to act as it did while part of the Government of Lebanon illustrates the folly of ever admitting to government any terrorist-orientated organisation, be it in Lebanon, Palestine or, indeed, in my own Northern Ireland.
Let us learn some lessons and let us address that critical part of the mandate. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the incredibly violent events that took place this summer in Lebanon are very serious.
Lifting the blockade of Lebanon is now a matter of urgency, but the main priority is to settle the conflict between Israel and Palestine before it is too late.
It must make the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean area based on peace, development for all and dialogue among civilisations of decisive importance.
As chairman of the political committee of that Assembly, I shall be leading that delegation from 18&#160;September, with our mission being to examine the conditions necessary for a resumption of political dialogue.
Through this delegation, which links the two shores of the Mediterranean, we want to pave the way together for a new stage in a genuine Euro-Mediterranean partnership in which Europe has a crucial role to play.
Mr&#160;Tuomioja, Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner, the time has come. &#160;&#160; Mr President, let us be clear: to have been successful in prevention, management and, now, post-war reconstruction, Europe would have required the right tools.
Italy, France, Spain and other Union countries have committed themselves to participating in a reinforced UNIFIL, the main task of which will be to ensure compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701.
What a difference between the soldiers who occupied Iraq and the European soldiers who are now going to enforce international law and restore peace.
We must imbue the Middle East conflict with the sprit of the Euro-Mediterranean process, with cooperation, with solidarity, with dialogue between cultures and peoples, in order to establish and maintain peace.
We must defend democracy in Lebanon and we must also be able to promote a new international conference based on the spirit of the successful Madrid Conference. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Council of Ministers’ failure to call for an immediate ceasefire meant we stood back and let the infrastructure of Lebanon be destroyed and led to more than one thousand civilian deaths both in Lebanon and Israel, not to mention the cluster bombs which will lead to even more.
Nothing, I repeat , excuses terrorist acts, but Tony Blair must wake up to the fact that his actions make him culpable. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, for the most part I agree with you and I think that you have steered Europe - this Europe which still lacks a Constitution - very well through this crisis.
You have said that there can be no military or unilateral solution to any of the continuing conflicts in the region, and, while I agree with you, I would like to add that we also have to talk about Iran in this context.
If we want to prevent Hizbollah from rearming, if we want to prevent Rumsfeld’s threat from becoming a reality after the expiry of the deadline – he thought that there could be a new war – if we want to prevent this, then we Europeans have to recommence negotiations with Iran on solutions to the nuclear conflict and also on ending its support of Hizbollah.
I believe that we owe this to Israel, but also to the entire Middle East.
If we Europeans can achieve this together, then I think we will actually have a peaceful solution for the entire Middle East. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, European public opinion has reacted with satisfaction to the EU’s rapid and un-bureaucratic response to the events in Lebanon.
Similarly, the portions of humanitarian aid that the Commission provided also saved our image in that country.
However, the mission now needs to be significantly extended, meaning it will become dangerous, particularly for our troops on the ground.
Secondly, in the medium term, Lebanon needs financial aid, which needs to flow in on a larger scale.
Thirdly, in the long term, a comprehensive peace solution for the entire region is necessary.
This means entering into serious dialogue with Syria and successful negotiations with Iran concerning its nuclear programme.
Without it the region will remain a flashpoint. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we must look forward, but it is also worth looking back to see how the Lebanon crisis was managed.
The crisis zone is in our neighbourhood, and we therefore have a particular responsibility.
It is very nice to hear from Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner that the EU is ready to give humanitarian and practical aid immediately.
I would also say that this crisis has once again clearly demonstrated the price we pay for lacking a Constitution.
We need new instruments, a President of the Council who can call upon the Heads of State or Government, a European foreign minister who can make use of this operational level, a European foreign service which can gather information on the ground, and a group of Member States to be able, through enhanced cooperation, to act on the EU’s behalf.
The CSCE or Madrid Conference must now be the model for the next step.
This is a time for politics, for putting all of the European Union’s weight and moral authority behind the search for a solution that guarantees Israel’s security without its neighbours having to pay with their lives and their freedom.
This is a time for European unity in order to demand an end to the occupation, in order to support the authority of the United Nations over the State of Israel as well, which, incidentally, owes its very existence to the United Nations.
Let us hope that a lasting peace can emerge from this miserable war. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the recent tragic events in Lebanon and the escalation of the situation in the Palestinian territories have brought the international community face to face with the impasses in this vulnerable region and their repercussions on global peace and security.
This is of particular concern to us as Europeans, because the economic, political or ecological repercussions of the crisis directly affect the Member States of the Union, while at the same time hampering the joint plan for peace, security and prosperity in the region and the creation of a free trade zone by 2010.
Europe therefore has vital reasons for seeking peace and development in the region.
Its intervention must start to exert greater influence for a peaceful solution to these problems.
Developments in this region indicate to us once again the complex and multifaceted nature of the situation, something which the European Union, due to its proximity and its historical ties and partnerships with the states in the area, knows better than other forces.
It must also work for the immediate reversal of the isolation of Lebanon in order for its political, humanitarian and development intervention to become more effective.
It must, moreover, support the Lebanese Government, which has been damaged both by recent events and by the long-term Syrian occupation and, at the same time, strengthen the democratic institutions and the evolution of the political system towards a popular system in which the creative forces will be freed from narrow religious confines and will operate on the basis of parties and programming statements.
Such a policy and social development will also bring Hezbollah, which remains a myth and a mystery, closer to 'Lebanisation', transparency and participation in order to resolve the problems. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, following the conflict in the summer of 2006, which was a bloodbath for Lebanon, we agree that the European Union has an historic opportunity to play a major role in the complex partitioning of the Middle East.
The first is to convince the international community and all the protagonists in the region that a violent solution – by which I also mean a military solution – cannot guarantee lasting peace, stability and prosperity in the Middle East, whether it be in Lebanon, Palestine or anywhere else.
Nor can we any longer ignore indefinitely political forces brought to power through elections, in Palestine or Lebanon, that we ourselves deemed to be democratic.
Let us not leave the reconstruction solely to Hezbollah and another Qatar.
Finally, we need, I conclude, to support the democrats and progressive political forces in Lebanon.
This summer, they have shown what they are capable of. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will start by quoting an article by Gideon&#160;Levy published in on 3 September 2006.
The world must know this (...).
Many colleagues speak of terror, but is it not the case that the hand of extremists has been considerably ... &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner for all the information they have provided.
We have initiated a partnership policy in the Mediterranean region that is not just economic or commercial but must also be political.
The European Parliament too should take the appropriate initiatives to put the EU-Lebanon dialogue into effect.
Then there remains the problem that has been left unsolved for many years of the large numbers of stateless refugees in Lebanon, who are living in emergency conditions and constitute a potentially dangerous source of destabilising activities.
A political solution needs to be found for them.
Lastly, I must mention the conference proposed by the Council: the peace conference is an important moment that must be seized when the time is right, and the European Parliament will certainly not fail to support it. &#160;&#160; –Mr President, there is no military solution to the conflict in Lebanon.
These words in the joint resolution which we are now debating inspire real cheer and hope.
This is the reason why the entry of Israeli troops into Lebanon was in breach of international law.
It is a good thing that the European Parliament is paying particular attention to the human dimension of this conflict, and that it is calling on the warring parties to free hostages, to treat the civilian population humanely, and to observe the Geneva Convention of 1949.
The Lebanese conflict is taking place near us, practically on our doorstep.
By sending out EU troops and providing humanitarian aid, Europe has already played an important role.
As an active player, the EU will have a real chance to make a significant contribution to resolving this conflict.
It has thus gained a little time to settle the conflict.
The context is of course the entire Middle East, but the priority remains the relationship between Israel and Palestine, and that is where we must start.
The European Union can and must promote the same principles and the same transparent, many-sided approach around the world, aiming at conflict prevention through political dialogue.
For all these reasons I am proud to be European at this moment, and still more to be Italian, in view of the role that my country has played in this context. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the recent conflict between Israel and Hizbollah is a tragedy for Israel and the people of Lebanon.
For some time, many of us in this House have been campaigning for the EU to declare Hizbollah a terrorist organisation.
Madam Commissioner, what safeguards are in place to prevent the millions of euros of EU aid and reconstruction money from being diverted to Hizbollah through one of its so-called charities?
We remember in the past all the allegations of graft when there was direct EU budgetary aid to the Palestinian Authority under Arafat.
The EU could offer significant trade and aid benefits to Syria to bring it back to the negotiating table with Israel. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to begin by responding to the last speech.
I wonder what Muslims in Britain and across Europe think when the British Conservatives say that troops from Muslim countries cannot be relied upon to do their job in a United Nations force?
Like others speaking in this debate, I believe that further crises in Lebanon and elsewhere in the region can only be averted by refocusing the debate on a just peace between Israel and the Palestinian people.
Europe, which has done so much in terms both of humanitarian aid to Lebanon and in evacuating innocent people and committing peacekeeping troops, must now relentlessly pursue that political dialogue.
We need new dialogue with the Arab world to support UN resolutions and recognise not just election results but also their consequences.
We need to use intermediaries, such as Turkey, to help with that dialogue and speed up temporary assistance to the Palestinian people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are much obliged to the Finnish Presidency for having tried to keep the EU united on this difficult issue, but we do have quite a long way to go before we really have a common European foreign policy.
If the EU is to have long-term political influence in the region, we specifically need a political strategy, a kind of democratic Marshall Plan for the entire region, which is in actual fact the least free region in the whole world.
We must get the peace process under way again between Israelis and Palestinians, preferably in the form of the conference that fellow Members have talked about.
In combination with this, conscious, systematic and long-term faith must also be placed in all the democratic forces in the region as a whole if we are to achieve results. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has finally made its voice heard and has been able to perform an active, leading role in the Middle East crisis, albeit a little late and not without some difficulty.
That, however, is just a first step on the long road that should lead the European Union, together with the United Nations, the United States and the Arab League, to achieve the stabilisation of a region where all the threats to world security have their origin.
UNIFIL is a means; the final objective must be the birth of a sovereign Lebanon free from foreign influences exercised in part through Hizbollah.
I would ask the Council and the Commission what point has been reached in disarming the armed militia that attacked Israel.
Within the framework of safeguarding human rights, the UNIFIL troops, to whom we send our solidarity and support, must also be entrusted with the task of protecting the Lebanese Christian community: they are not to blame but are caught between the two opposing sides.
Achieving this aim will require Europe to play a leading role, but how can the Union be the bringer of peace without a constitution to grant the necessary powers to those who must perform this task?
Rather than an exercise for legal experts, this is the central issue, the issue of how to export beyond our borders the most important result of our 50 years of Europe: peace. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I had resolved to start my speech differently, but now I shall start by asking Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner to read in the magazine ‘Le Point’ the article on relations between Israel and Palestine, especially concerning the serious problem of the water supply to the Palestinian occupied territories due to the practice being exercised by Israel.
I believe, and this is a challenge to the Finnish Presidency, that the European Union and the Council of Ministers should take a decision to lift the economic sanctions on the Palestinian people as soon as President Abbas forms the new national unity government in Palestine.
This will give an incentive to the Palestinian people, an incentive to the moderate reform forces in Palestine and the Hamas forces to integrate peacefully into the democratic life of Palestine. &#160;&#160; Mr President, following the hostilities the European Union has been widely called upon to lead and contribute the core of UNIFIL, to implement Resolution 1701, to play a primary role in humanitarian aid and reconstruction and to encourage the parties to take part in political dialogue.
We may have reached a unanimous decision, but it was not a uniform one and we were not listened to either by the Security Council or by the belligerent parties.
I regret that our resolution reduces the causes of the Israeli-Lebanese war to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
As General de Gaulle used to say, you cannot go into the Middle East, complicated as it is, with just a few simple ideas, and that is the message that I too want in a way to convey.
It is the insecurity and the growing suffering of the Israeli population of Galilee that have triggered hostilities against Hezbollah.
In the north, Lebanon is concerned to regain its sovereignty and put a stop to the interference by its various neighbours, while Israel wants to guarantee its security.
In the south, meanwhile, the task is to create an independent Palestinian state within secure borders that is able, over time, to co-exist in peace with its neighbour, Israel. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my whole life engagement with the Middle East does not lighten my own burden of responsibility.
In south Lebanon, we are not facing resistance movement militias, but rather special units that are well trained, manned and equipped by Iranian revolutionary guards.
This army is probably better than any other Arab regular army.
Israel, a state that prides itself on its democratic credentials, launched with impunity a destructive war against a neighbouring, struggling secular democracy, destroying its infrastructure and killing its citizens, mostly innocent civilians.
And yet Israel continues with impunity to maintain an air and sea blockade of its victim while continuing to squeeze the economic and political life out of Gaza, not to mention the killing of 200 Palestinians under the cover of the war on Lebanon.
I believe that Israel must expect to pay for the reconstruction of Lebanon.
It must release Palestinian monies and it must face an international inquiry into its actions in relation to Lebanon.
I also believe that an international peace conference that does not carry a price for failure for the protagonists in the Middle East will not succeed, nor will it get off the ground.
Europe faces three connected challenges in this regard.
First, the UNIFIL peace-keeping/peace enforcement mission in Lebanon.
UN forces led by the EU must ensure that United Nations Resolution 1701 is enforced and that, through cooperation with Lebanese troops and political leaders, Hizbollah can be disarmed.
UNIFIL II must also ensure that further arms are not smuggled into Lebanon to rearm any groups and that Lebanon’s sovereignty is respected at all times.
UNIFIL II must be successful.
A lot is riding on that and failure would have disastrous consequences for the region as a whole and for Europe.
On the issue of committing troops to UNIFIL II, some EU countries have been generous to date.
However, we need to play our part in finding ways to create fresh enthusiasm and acceptance for the roadmap as the way forward and, in this regard, the difficult task of engaging with Syria will be necessary. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, it is with sadness that I have followed the tragic situation in Lebanon over recent weeks.
Lebanon has made great strides since the end of the civil war in terms of human rights and citizens’ rights, constructing and strengthening a multicultural and multi-ethnic democracy and civil society.
Unfortunately, though, many of these gains have been diminished or destroyed by the excessive use of military force in the conflict between Israel and Hezbollah.
I firmly believe that one of the conditions for sustainable peace in the Middle East is the existence of an independent, strong and sovereign Lebanon, together with the existence of Israel and a Palestinian State.
It needs help from the international community; it needs help with economic renewal; it needs help with consolidating democracy; it needs help with the exercise of State authority in all of its aspects, including security and military aspects throughout the whole country.
This is the only way in which the elected Lebanese State institutions will be able to disarm the military wing of Hezbollah and integrate the movement into the country’s political life.
I should like to call on the Council and the Commission not to backslide in their efforts to help Lebanon. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, fellow Members, on the issue of the way in which we deal with the Middle East conflict, a number of representatives of the European institutions have recently appealed for a structured and overall solution to the region’s problems.
Our commitment must be balanced if we are to play the positive political role that falls to us.
Balance does not lie in unilaterally and systematically stigmatising a single party to the conflict, in the event Israel.
We owe it to two states, Lebanon and Israel - with which we have friendly relations - and we owe it to two peoples, those of Israel and Lebanon, who are our friends and who aspire only to live in peace.
I would therefore express the wish that the parliamentary mission that will soon visit the region should carry with it this concern for balance and be able to contribute actively to seeking a peaceful solution between people of good will in the region, so affirming our intransigence towards intolerance and messages of hatred while, at the same time, displaying what binds us together as human beings. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to begin by saying that I fully endorse the speech made by my colleague, Mr Howitt.
He is dead set against occupation and walks at the front of every peace demonstration in Israel.
We can earn this trust only by consistently addressing these root causes, but we can earn my friend Renan’s trust only if we are willing to say out loud that Hizbollah is a radical militant group that abuses the Palestinian cause to strengthen its position as a threat to democracy in Lebanon and as a threat to ordinary Israelis. &#160;&#160; –Mr President, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, I would like to briefly raise three issues.
The first concerns a common assessment of Israel’s reaction to Hizbollah’s provocative and shameful actions.
This is difficult even for Israel’s allies to accept, as we have heard from prominent Members of this House.
In order to create the opportunity for a positive two-state solution for Palestine and Israel, both sides need to be thoroughly prepared for such a solution through appropriate education, from primary school upwards.
Perhaps the next generation – the children and young people of today – will reach the decision that we consider to be the only sensible solution for us. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, 2005 saw the tenth anniversary of the Barcelona process, a relatively lengthy process aimed at establishing sound ties with the other side of the Mediterranean.
Yet, as a Member of this House, a defender of the European project and a staunch advocate of international law, it was extremely difficult to observe without alarm the way in which the majority of Europe’s institutions monitored the events that took place this summer.
The country was also one of the biggest receivers of EU funds to support its reconstruction and development.
I am sure that Europe did not do all it could to prevent this situation and did not take the necessary steps to turn words into real action.
The EU’s role in this process is a vital one and demonstrates once again that the political strength of the EU is crucial to the world’s stability and balance. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, these are not just isolated incidents that we are witnessing in the Middle East, but rather a broad panorama of crises with global impact.
When we discuss and even criticise the efforts of the United States to eradicate tyranny and support democracy in Iraq and elsewhere, we must not ignore the games of Russia and China in the region, which may easily end up transforming the region into a burning crater of global terrorist war.
The political expansion of Iran is now targeted at precluding democracy in Lebanon and Syria, stability in Iraq and peace in Palestine.
Israel is left alone in its desperate struggle.
The Western democracies have shown no initiative – they are still defending themselves without any strategy and thus losing.
It is time for Europe to wake up. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should just like to announce that, at the end of the talks with the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, the Israeli Prime Minister has announced that Israel's air and sea blockade of Lebanon will be lifted tomorrow at 5 p.m. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in recent weeks, amid the appalling loss of life and humanitarian misery in the Middle East, it has been difficult to see any shaft of light.
It would be a tragic wasted opportunity if the reinforced UNIFIL merely became a bystander while Hizbollah prepares for its next attacks in the months and years ahead.
The Council should encourage Member States to make representations to this effect at the United Nations.
We would encourage the Lebanese Government to take robust action in this field. &#160;&#160; –Mr President, the Israel-Lebanon crisis is no longer typical of the conflicts in the Middle East that we have become accustomed to over the decades.
It clearly marks the start of a new global conflict between Iran and Syria, Hizbollah and Hamas, the Sunnis in Iraq and Al Qaeda on the one hand and the United States and its allies on the other.
This means we need new political measures to resolve the conflict in this part of the world.
Europe now needs to get involved in resolving the conflict in Iraq.
The global threat requires a joint response from the European Union, the United States and NATO.
For me, the essential message has been that the European Parliament is appreciative and supportive of the Council’s efforts to end the conflict in Lebanon, to oversee the restoration of full Lebanese sovereignty and to facilitate a return to the Middle East peace process.
Realistically speaking, even in the best of times, there will always be limits to what the European Union can do acting alone.
That is the role of the European Union, but we also have to take the initiative and show leadership.
A few weeks ago, Commissioner Louis Michel and I visited the area, and it was very obvious that there was immense suffering among civilians on both sides of this conflict.
The reconstruction process also needs a thorough needs analysis, and the Union will collaborate with Lebanon on this.
I should just like to answer two or three specific remarks.
With regard to Hizbollah, it is clear that our money will go directly to the government or to organisations that work with the government because, as I have said, we want to empower the government and to give the country back its sovereignty. &#160;&#160; To wind up the debate, I have received six motions for resolutions, pursuant to Rule&#160;103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; In this Middle East crisis, as in so many before in this area and around the world, the innocent have suffered most for their leaders’ ambitions.
When we see the children killed in Qana, all justifications seem petty and shallow.
The Irish army was stationed in Lebanon for many years as a peacekeeping force, and there is a great affinity between the Irish and the Lebanese because of this.
We as a country have become familiar with Lebanon through family members or friends or neighbours who were stationed there and we feel the damage inflicted on their country all the more for this.
These people do not want this life; they want peace and safety for their families and a chance to live their lives.
And whether that means imposing sanctions on all involved until they end their war or offering advantage to those who end it, we who have the capability must act. &#160;&#160; – Nobody can turn a blind eye to Israel’s latest war against Lebanon, which was bombed for 34 days, with the support of the USA and the passivity of the Council of the European Union, causing the acknowledged deaths of 1&#160;084 civilians in Lebanon and 41 in Israel, and with thousands more injured.
There will be no lasting peace in the Middle East until Palestinian, Syrian and Lebanese sovereignty is upheld. &#160;&#160; Broken by 34 days of war, Lebanon – which was, however, enjoying rapid development – is again the hostage and victim of a crisis with which it is unable to deal.
The European Union will help the Lebanese to rebuild their destroyed country and to get back on their feet and resume normal life and, in this connection, our humanitarian and emergency aid is vital.
By participating in UNIFIL, several Member States are making a commitment on the ground under the banner of the UN, and they have made a just decision.
It is, however, united as Europeans that we should intervene to have Security Council resolution&#160;1701 complied with, help to free prisoners, arrange for the blockade of Lebanon to be lifted, support the demarcation of borders and re-establish political dialogue.
In this crisis, the European Union has shown that its intervention could change the course of events and help resolve a conflict.
There should be a committee of inquiry on war crimes and the EU should revisit its economic and military cooperation with Israel.
We should also be aware and condemn the fact that the conflict in Lebanon was used as cover for even more intensive and brutal oppression of the Palestinian people.
The EU must work for a peaceful and just settlement to the disputes in the Middle East, particularly by pressing for a secure and independent Palestinian State. &#160;&#160; – At the root of the brutal attacks on Palestine and Lebanon is the USA’s plan for Middle East domination.
The reality of the situation must not be obfuscated by transforming the victim into the aggressor and vice versa.
For there to be peace in the region, Israel must withdraw from all occupied Arab territories, dismantle the settlements and the wall and release political detainees; refugees must be able to return, and an independent, sovereign Palestinian State must be created with East Jerusalem as its capital.
All States in the region must be guaranteed their sovereignty and security, and the region must be demilitarised and rendered free of nuclear weapons. &#160;&#160; – Exactly five years after 11&#160;September 2001, the current conflict in Lebanon offers the international community a chance to review and correct the clearly inappropriate approach taken to solve the friction between the so-called Western and Islamic worlds.
For five years, in fact, ongoing conflicts (in Gaza, Lebanon, Iraq and Afghanistan) and the most serious diplomatic tensions (on terrorist attacks, the Iran issue, etc.) have all revolved around the same point, and therefore they cannot be eradicated just by means of more or less legitimate military missions created every time and always under different names.
The Presidency thus also intends to do all it can to ensure that the Council reaches a compromise settlement as soon as possible regarding the as yet unresolved ‘opt out’ issue.
As you know, differences in labour market structures and practices have led to differing views between Member States, and the problem has been to find an appropriate balance, where temporary agency employees would be given adequate levels of protection while at the same time the market in companies that provide a temporary workforce would be allowed to develop and grow.
Recently, the Member States have renewed their commitment to the Lisbon objectives, including increased levels of employment and the availability of better jobs, which are evident in their national reform programmes.
The Council believes that these objectives can be achieved in such a way that the different practices and traditions that obtain in national labour markets are respected.
The matter was last discussed by the Council in June 2003.
The Finnish Presidency will examine the issue and is also expecting some input from the Commission, which said in its communication on the screening of pending legislative proposals that it would reserve the right to reconsider the proposal based on what emerges in other discussions on future proposals.
The Presidency understands very well that it is important for the European Parliament to make progress in this area.
We will be aware of the general opinion on this when the vote on the first reading of the Services Directive is voted on.
If the Commission delivers its vital input with regard to this matter during our Presidency, we will be ready to undertake some constructive work to find a solution that is acceptable to all the Member States. &#160;&#160; Thank you, President-in-Office, for that very full answer and for your honesty, particularly on the question of temporary agency workers.
An incentive for this is, for example, that the way in which doctors’ working hours are interpreted causes huge problems for the Member States, and for this reason too it is very important to find a solution for this directive.
For example, in attempting to improve employment for young people, it may be important to enact various measures removing barriers to education and mobility.
The question by the honourable Member relates in particular to how the Finnish Presidency intends to support the commitments of the governments of the Member States to improve employment.
Member States are also responsible for most of the other policies connected with this issue, such as education policy.
During the Finnish presidential term, the Council convening in December intends to deal with several questions directly connected with employment of young people.
The Council will be presented with a report by the Employment Committee which examines the Member States’ national reform programmes, including their employment policies.
During the Finnish presidential term, the Council will discuss two issues that directly relate to improving employment for young people.
In March, the European Council asked Member States to include young people and youth organisations in the implementation process relating to the European Youth Pact.
The Finnish Presidency proposes to discuss initiation of an analytical dialogue at Council level with and between all youth sector actors, including young people and youth organisations.
I would refer the honourable Member to the concrete measures and initiatives which the Council cited in the general answer it gave this year to oral questions H-0440, H-0455, H-0473 and H-0478/06.
All the countries attending the conference stressed their commitment to the rapid implementation of the action plan.
On 19&#160;July, the Commission published a communication on policy priorities in the fight against illegal immigration of third country nationals.
At present, the Council is discussing a proposal for a directive on common norms and procedures to be applied in Member States when repatriating nationals of third countries who are illegally resident.
The Commission and the European Agency for the Management of Operational Co-operation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union also reported back on the implementation of key measures included in the comprehensive approach at a meeting of the Council held on 24&#160;July. &#160;&#160; President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for your reply, but I would like to point out to you that, despite all of these agreements, illegal immigration via the Canary Islands is still increasing.
Reception centres are overflowing, there is no way to return the immigrants to their countries of origin and the commitments made by 16 countries have not been fulfilled, except in the case of your country, since Finland, together with Italy and Portugal, has sent a naval unit.
The European Agency for the Management of Operational Co-operation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union has asked Member States for surveillance vessels, radar and border security experts to implement its own operation in the Canary Islands.
Respect for the fundamental human rights of all EU citizens and all people residing in the European Union is included in the Treaty on European Union, and the Charter of Fundamental Rights adopted in December 2000 by EU leaders confirms those rights which result from the constitutional traditions and international obligations common to the Member States.
It has already implemented measures to prevent discrimination and prejudice based on the six criteria of discrimination in Article&#160;13 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, and intends to continue implementing such measures in the future.
We should nevertheless remember that it is the European Commission’s task to monitor the implementation of, and compliance with, EU legislation in the Member States, and to submit proposals for justified legislative measures for approval by the European Parliament and the Council.
The Commission has made a proposal for recommendation by the Council regarding the prevention of injuries and better safety.
One of the priorities is the prevention of violence between people.
The Council is following developments closely and will raise these problems and issues regularly in political dialogue with Russia, in particular at the talks on human rights held twice a year.
They have been endorsed in the Partnership and Co-operation Agreements, and Russia is committed to them as a member of the Council of Europe and the OSCE.
Obviously, however, there are challenges of all kinds associated with making these values conspicuous in practice and in the implementation of legislation.
For example, consultations on human rights are being held next in November.
That is why it is important that the strategic partnership should establish a good basis and framework for this mutual dependence which exists between us.
With the communication and political dialogue that accompanies this, and which exist at present, we can remind Russia of these human rights challenges, and that is what we do.
The Council, for its part, reached political consensus on the Seventh Framework Programme for research on 24&#160;July 2006, and this consensus is responsible for the outcome of the vote by the European Parliament.
My question really refers to a situation in which a country does not have a legal framework in place.
Nor has the Council discussed anything to do with the number of Europeans held in Guantanamo Bay. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it will come as no surprise that the reply to this question which I submitted as early as at the beginning of July, immediately following the summit between the European Union and the US in Vienna, is somewhat disappointing, because the question is very much linked to one of the topics that was discussed at that summit.
Furthermore, it was the view of the informal meeting of Foreign Affairs Ministers in Klosterneuburg in the spring that the prison camp at Guantanamo Bay should be closed as quickly as possible, so the Union has clearly expressed its opinion on the subject. &#160;&#160; I do not think I have heard such a feeble statement as ‘the Council is not responsible for the protection of EU citizens abroad, that is just up to the Member States’.
In its resolution last December on the human rights situation in Iran, one that also had the Union’s support, the UN General Assembly expressed its grave concern over discrimination and other human rights violations, including the systematic discrimination against women and girls in legislation and in practice.
The Council deplores the worsening human rights situation in Iran.
When it met on 15&#160;May, the Council expressed its concern about the increase in the number of executions, random arrests, the tightening of restrictions on access to information, and the increase in violations of freedom of speech and freedom of religion.
The Council was referring in particular to the intimidation and harassment of advocates of human rights lawyers and minority groups.
When it met on 17&#160;July, the Council focused special attention on the continuing violations of freedom of expression and association, including the violent break-up of the peaceful demonstration by those demanding an end to laws that discriminate against women.
The EU still intends to raise questions of human rights, including the rights of women, both with Iran directly and in international forums.
The Union intends to state its concern both in the confidential and in the public context.
The statement made separate mention of the prominent human rights lawyer Abdolfattah Soltani, who was sentenced to five years in prison.
Mention was also made of Ali-Akbar Mousavi Khoeini, who was arrested during the demonstration in support of women’s rights on 12&#160;June, the lawyer Farshid Jadollahi and Omid Beruzi, who were also sentenced to prison, and the arrests of defenders of labour laws in Tehran.
An official statement was made on 10&#160;July, in which the Finnish Presidency expressed the European Union’s concern that the Iranian academic Ramin Jahanbeglu is still in detention.
I therefore wonder if there is any possibility of the Council taking the initiative of supporting the women’s organisations that exist.
At least as a matter of policy, we have also supported and will continue to support women’s organisations in a way that continues to highlight these human rights issues and the current problems, both in direct contacts and in international forums.
The report is the response to a request by the European Council to have a six-monthly review of the implementation of the action plan on counter-terrorism adopted in June 2004 and last amended in February 2006.
With the recent events in London, it became clear that there would be a need for closer cooperation than ever between terrorism and air security experts.
EU Justice and Home Affairs Ministers will be continuing these discussions at the informal meeting of the Council in Tampere. &#160;&#160; Thank you for your response, President-in-Office.
On foot of your final comment, particularly with regard to what we saw happening in London recently, there did not seem to be any coordination with other Member States in the European Union.
During the Finnish presidential term, we will be updating the counter-terrorism strategy and the action plan that goes with it.
It is for this reason that it is so important for experts on terrorism and air security to work closely together to find the right level of security: sufficient to protect citizens from terrorist attacks, but at the same time making it possible to travel as normal in the future. &#160;&#160; As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 14, 15, 16 and 18 lapse.
Question No 17 has been withdrawn.
It remains to be seen what the reaction will be in a situation such as that proposed by the honourable Member. &#160;&#160; First of all, I congratulate the Presidency-in-Office for the work that has been carried out in organising the coordination between the Member States of the peacekeeping group that is going to Lebanon.
That concludes Question Time. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Bastiaan Belder, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on EU-China relations (2005/2161 (INI)) (A6-0257/2006).
The PSE Group also believes that there are a number of factual errors in the report which could only be corrected via a huge number of amendments.
This is because the report contains 125 recitals and paragraphs, of which only two paragraphs are on EU-China cooperation.
Just 13&#160;paragraphs concern foreign policy, while some of the EU’s basic principles of the last 30 years are ignored.
We urge the House to refer this report back to committee, where we will have sufficient time to address these extremely important issues as regards EU-China cooperation.
The Commission is currently doing a tremendous job in dealing with EU-China relations in more than 20 different policy fields, including foreign policy, global security issues and energy issues.
We need to act together to define a coherent position based on facts and clear information from the relevant departments in the Commission and the Council.
Parliament’s position will be greatly strengthened and we will be more influential in achieving our common goals if we give ourselves some extra time to prepare and reflect on this report again. &#160;&#160; Now that the request has been moved, does anybody wish to speak in favour?
I should like to say that, in the human rights area and whatever the outcome of the vote to follow, we shall of course support all the amendments in favour of human rights.
I acknowledge and I also take on board some of the comments made by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, given that we have tabled (as the PSE Group is well aware) an amendment designed to bridge a possible gap in the report, namely the reference to the one-China policy (ruling out Taiwanese independence).
A large majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs endorses this specific approach on account of its indispensable and valuable contribution, for which I extend warm thanks to the Members concerned.
The public responses from the Chinese Embassy in Brussels during the various stages of my report oblige me to give you my position, in summary, in three key areas: the Ankang system, freedom of religion in the People’s Republic and the issue of a peaceful annexation of Taiwan to China.
Disregarding these, the Chinese Embassy advised this House to delete Paragraph 24 of the draft resolution on Ankang as being completely unfounded, and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, acting as if there were nothing wrong, tabled an amendment to that effect.
I asked the Committee on Foreign Affairs to withdraw the amendment on two occasions, but to no avail.
I am therefore completely perplexed by her attitude.
We already know enough about the many violations of the basic fundamental right of freedom of religion in China.
The overwhelming majority of the Taiwanese people do not in any event wish to be subject to the same control.
This report represents Parliament’s commitment to a solid partnership between the European Union and China.
That is why it is honest in listing the obstacles in this political pursuit, certainly now that these are being recognised just as much on the Chinese side – I invite you to read the report which contains statements by the Chinese, not least by Chinese academics – but which, politically, are not at all sufficiently recognised as obstacles and eliminated as a result.
Let me make a few strategic remarks at the outset.
As you will be aware, the ninth EU-China Summit will take place in Helsinki in just three days’ time.
It will be a very important opportunity to discuss current issues and concerns at the highest level.
I may then add a few words on some specific items.
Firstly, China’s economic growth has been phenomenal, but, at the same time, it is still a developing country and more fragile than we might think.
To be sustainable, economic growth must be accompanied by social and political reform.
Secondly, China has a vital role to play in creating more stable international energy markets and dealing with environmental challenges.
Before suggesting some principles that should guide our strategic response to this challenge, I should reiterate that the basic premise for the EU’s policy towards China must be one of engagement and partnership.
In terms of China’s internal reform and development we must be constructive and we must complement Chinese policy where possible.
However, the European Union must also send firm and very consistent messages on our areas of interest, such as the need for social and political reform to ensure China’s sustainability, the importance of international non-proliferation regimes, and immediate market access and a level playing field for EU companies.
Secondly, internationally, the European Union has an interest in encouraging more active and responsible international engagement by China.
We should emphasise the regional component, increasing our awareness and sensitivity as regards regional issues and encouraging regional integration and greater multilateralism in Asia.
Before exploring new areas, there should be a full internal review of our existing cooperation, leading to a clearer focus on priorities and, as necessary, moving on from areas which are ineffective or are no longer priorities.
Our aim should be a holistic approach, with the European Union as a whole speaking again with one voice on its China policy.
Fourthly, we should also work to ensure that our bilateral relations are strengthened by embracing all constituents of societies.
Parliament will also have a very important role to play in this context.
We need a long-term programme to promote mutual understanding and an effective strategic policy mechanism that is sufficiently informal and flexible.
Fifthly, throughout this process, the European Union should be aware of its strengths.
Sixthly, there are other areas in which we have less leverage.
I know the human rights situation in China is of particular concern to Parliament, as it is to the Commission.
The Commission is taking steps to turn these principles into reality.
We will, as the report requests, set out a new strategic vision for our policy towards China, which we will be in a position to present formally to the Council and Parliament in November.
In addition to our continued support for China’s internal reform process, I think we should also focus on four basic priorities: first, we need a greater balance in our bilateral relations, whether described as reciprocity, equality or mutual benefit.
That includes a more meaningful dialogue on human rights and related issues.
Questions such as progress on social and economic rights would be included there.
As I heard the rapporteur say, we attach great importance to the issue of organ harvesting.
It is clear that the legislation on that issue recently adopted by the Chinese Government does not adequately address the issue of donor consent, particularly for those who have died in custody or who have been executed.
We have made our concerns known very clearly to the Chinese Government, both through our human rights dialogue and wider political channels, urging it, in quite strong terms, to take measures to address these concerns as a matter of urgency.
We need to make China a responsible member of the international community, but more than just a stakeholder, it needs to be a positive and active contributor.
There is much to be done in defining a realistic but also an ambitious strategic vision for moving EU-China relations forward.
It is our responsibility to translate this political desire into practice.
From the perspective of the world economy there are other important dates approaching, namely a new distribution of votes within the International Monetary Fund in favour of China and possibly to the disadvantage of Europe, and, at the end of September, new groupings and alliances will need to be formed in the Doha round in Australia.
As the draftsman of the opinion on this issue in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I will concentrate on economic and monetary policy perspectives.
In view of the close interconnection of the financial markets, however, in my opinion I have argued in favour of a cautious change, because radical and swift measures could lead to incalculable consequences for the financial markets.
The International Monetary Fund must monitor such developments and take timely action where necessary.
At the IMF’s forthcoming annual meeting, China is due to receive more weight in the Fund, and in this development it is getting strong support from the United States.
It is a comprehensive report, it addresses all of the problems concerning relations between the European Union and China and it is based on the important debate that took place within the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for which I thank Mr&#160;Brok, who sought to thoroughly analyse the topic.
We hope for a broad consensus on this report, and so we call on the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to vote in favour, not least because we are committed to supporting the one-China policy, which underpins efforts to find a peaceful solution to the Taiwan question by means of constructive dialogue.
Mr&#160;Mandelson has sent out certain signals, but we must continue undaunted with regard to the protection of human rights, as must the Finnish Presidency, which I regret is not present in this House.
We agree that China needs to shoulder a growing international responsibility because of its status as a permanent member of the Security Council and now as the world’s fourth largest economy.
We agree with the importance of China’s role in Africa and the Middle East.
We need to have a dialogue with China over the situation in North Korea, where it has been playing an important role chairing the six-party talks; over Iran, where China can play a role in trying to find a solution to the nuclear crisis; and over Darfur, where China, because of its oil interests, has to date been resisting the deployment of UN forces.
We look forward to the establishment of an EU-China strategic partnership and we certainly support the need for the abolition of the death penalty – something we urge in all countries, including Japan, the Republic of Korea and the United States.
However, unfortunately, in total, the report suffers from both a lack of balance and the sins of omission.
I thought they were sins of omission, but in his opening speech Mr&#160;Belder has made it clear that the reason that the one-China policy is not in the report is not because he has forgotten, but he is actually in favour of changing it.
We have two lines on the plight of 150 million migrant workers – more than 10% of China’s population, one sentence on free trade unions and yet there are five paragraphs on a religious minority that is a hundred times smaller.
Yes, of course, we need to stand up for all the oppressed groups, but where is the rapporteur’s sense of proportion?
There are areas in which we tread very much on the Committee on International Trade’s territory, but the report takes a much more protectionist line than that committee’s recent report.
The question of market economy status is dismissed very easily, yet 40 countries in the world have already granted market economy status to China – most recently the Republic of Korea in November 2005.
I respect the European Parliament’s view on the embargo, but here we are insisting that all our partnership countries follow an embargo that puts China in the same situation as Burma and Zimbabwe – which I consider personally to be rather worse in terms of their oppression and discrimination – while, at the same time, asking the Chinese to assist us in putting pressure on those two countries that we say are exactly the same as China.
We do not mention the fact that China’s concern about the Yasukuni Shrine is reflected in the recently revealed fact that the Japanese Emperor refused to visit it once class-A war criminals were included there.
I am afraid the wrong message comes from this report. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I welcome this report on behalf of my group.
It is important for the European Parliament to come up with a statement prior to the important summit at the weekend.
That is good, but in that case it must also accept increased international responsibility and be a responsible partner.
We believe that China can play an important role in relations with North Korea, but we cannot accept China making use of its UN veto to prevent global intervention designed to put an end to the genocide in Darfur or aimed at putting pressure on Iran to open up its nuclear power programme to international scrutiny.
We must never miss an opportunity to point out to Chinese politicians and companies that we condemn these breaches of human rights.
In the same way, all of us as politicians, entrepreneurs and consumers must demand that Chinese companies permit trade unions and allow their employees to enjoy security and fundamental rights.
China is also an environmental time bomb, the environment being a huge potential area for cooperation between China and ourselves in the EU.
Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner talked of the need for a strategic partnership involving many practical elements.
I believe that it would have been a mistake to refer this report back to committee and it would have sent out the wrong message, particularly given the importance attached to the sovereignty of this House.
In this case, I believe that we must do so while making the values that we consider to be fundamental to a good, fruitful relationship very clear.
With regard to the arms embargo, we have said many times that we cannot and will not accept any lifting of the arms embargo unless there is firstly a solution, a justification or a clear acceptance of responsibilities with regard to the events of Tiananmen Square; until that issue is cleared up, we cannot consider lifting the embargo.
Finally, with regard to the One-China policy, I agree that that must be the objective and that it provides a good framework for negotiating relations between China and Taiwan, but it must be between democratic entities.
I believe that that would be a terrible mistake and moves in completely the wrong direction.
As if the People’s Republic of China could tell the European Union what kind of relations and what kind of policy we should implement here.
We must bear in mind which country we are talking about.
Our group is therefore going to vote against this report tomorrow, because I believe that it moves in the wrong direction.
The European Union therefore ought to urge China to maintain an atmosphere of mutual trust with Taiwan, and to employ peaceful means in developing relations to achieve stability throughout the region.
We should condemn the fact that the Chinese law legitimising the possible occupation of Taiwan hangs over Taiwan like a sword of Damocles.
Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, in the concept of ‘one China’ the idea of peaceful reunification should be replaced with something that is more applicable – a peaceful solution.
The impetus for the one-party regime to end the significant human rights violations that we have seen for so long would disappear. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, we must congratulate the people of China on the progress they have made since the death of the tyrant Mao Zedong 30 years ago.
The recognition by Mao’s successor Deng Xiao Ping and his successors of some capitalist and free market realities has enabled China to progress economically to the point it has reached today.
However, at the heart of the Chinese economic phenomenon lies an unresolved contradiction: China’s new-found prosperity is based on capitalist principles applied by the Chinese Communist Party, which is the only political party in China.
We have the curious spectacle of a communist party that no longer believes in communism applying capitalist ideas that it is not supposed to believe in.
Progress will not extend to freedom of association, freedom of speech and democracy.
But when are they going to reap the benefits of the Western democratic system?
Mr Belder’s report rightly calls for political pluralism, an independent judiciary and for the EU not to lift its arms embargo until China properly addresses the situation regarding human rights and civil and political freedoms.
Such a coherent policy should promote the interests of the Chinese people, but not the interests of the Chinese Communist Party.
Therefore, we should not lift the arms embargo and we should continue to recognise Taiwan as an independent democratic State.
Unfortunately, I have to say that this report should be rejected because it advocates the further development of an EU strategy regarding relations with China.
The individual speakers, the report itself, as well as all those taking the floor here have stressed how important relations with China are to the future of the European Union.
Our approach has to be different, in discussions on this issue, from our relations with another large country of the region such as India.
Therefore, our priority is to promote, foster and create conditions allowing people to live in democratic conditions, without fear of repression and without acts which are part of the daily life in China.
In debating this report, which is, on the whole, correct – and I hope that all amendments, and all elements relating to human and citizens’ rights will be adopted by this House – we should remember that repression of religious communities – and that includes all, from the Catholic Church to religious movements such as Falun Gong, which are being oppressed in a quite shocking manner – as well as repression of fundamental human rights is not a thing of the past in China, and continue on a daily basis.
We need to draw attention to all of this in our report, as it is extremely important that both the European Parliament and the whole European Union do not simply focus on economic statistics and on trade in their relations with China, but that they also focus on the ideals that the European Union does and should promote. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, our group is genuinely committed to developing the strategic partnership between the EU and China, but these relations must be based upon complete openness, credibility and responsibility.
I would like to thank you, Commissioner, for the clear words which you have spoken in your opening speech, and I encourage you to make the same speech at the summit in Helsinki.
The protection of intellectual property must be enforced, and if the Chinese Government can enforce its political convictions in every prison, then it must also be able to implement the protection of intellectual property on every factory floor.
No: they have signed, so they should ratify, and they should implement human rights.
Implementation means, in practice: freedom of religion, freedom of the press, and freedom of speech.
Indeed, as far as Taiwan is concerned, of course all of us in the House would like there to be a political dialogue between Peking and Taipei, but this must not occur in the form of threats.
If the report were as balanced as your contribution tonight, Commissioner, I would wholeheartedly support it.
However, throughout our discussions in the Foreign Affairs Committee, I have argued that the report was weak in the EU-China cooperation and foreign policy sections.
For no reason that I can understand, the report does not take a position on the One-China policy or China’s role in the Security Council, and it does not take a balanced view on the Taiwan issue, the six-party talks, EU-China cooperation and global security issues.
I shall refer to just one example: in paragraph 24, Parliament invites the Commission to initiate a structured dialogue with its Chinese counterpart in the fields of employment and social affairs.
Well, Mr Belder and colleagues from the PPE-DE and ALDE groups, either your homework has not been done properly, or we must congratulate the magical powers of the Commission, because two years ago it must have eaten some Chinese fortune cookie which said that in September 2006 Parliament would make such a call to initiate a structured dialogue.
The truth is that the Commission has been having structured dialogue on these issues and many other issues for years now.
Commissioner, the PSE Group would warmly welcome it if you were to give us those regular updates as regards your work in building structured dialogues with China.
My idea was that this report should be Parliament’s contribution to EU-China relations based on pragmatism, facts and respect for each other’s sensitivities, and aiming for the progressive deepening of the relationship between the two sides, which is rapidly maturing into a comprehensive strategic partnership.
In fact, Europe is engaged with China in cultural, economic and strategic terms.
It greatly weakens Parliament’s position and influence in achieving our common goals, especially now with a view to the forthcoming summit. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;Belder, as chairman of Parliament’s delegation for China, I am left with rather mixed feelings about this report.
For example, is there sufficient cooperation between China and the Commission in the area of regional policy, the development of China’s disadvantaged regions?
In fact, we in our group have tabled amendments on this very subject, because there are differences between us, the European Union, and the United States, as to how to approach China.
I cannot find any extensive detail about this in this report.
China needs us where the environment is concerned, for example.
I think that that country could take on board a huge number of suggestions from us, including in the area of energy.
We should therefore stop pretending that it does not exist and that we can simply prescribe whatever conditions we please. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome this report not only because of its strong emphasis on the need for respect for human rights in China, but also because it echoes a key finding from my own report on EU economic relations with China, namely that the challenges posed by Chinese competition are not limited to individual sectors like textiles or footwear, but are in fact systemic in nature and require a much more comprehensive approach.
Chinese graduates are rightly, and to their credit, moving up the value-added chain and very soon we may need to face the possibility that there will be very little that Europe can produce which China cannot produce more efficiently.
Our response to the challenges posed by China needs to include a thorough-going reassessment of the assumptions that have underpinned international trade theory until now.
Not for our own sake, necessarily, but certainly for the sake of many workers in developing countries, because the reality is that China’s deflationary pressure is already driving down wages right across the developing world, pushing global suppliers to reduce their workers’ rights and conditions in their bid to remain competitive at all costs, and forcing ILO conventions on freedom of association and bargaining on China is certainly part of the solution.
However, I would also ask the Commission to look much more closely at some of its assumptions about the winners and losers from the globalisation process. &#160;&#160; – I should like to thank the rapporteur for his comprehensive report and even though I do not fully agree with many of the themes of the report, I welcome it as a contribution to the debate.
Firstly, there are issues relating to environmental protection.
Representatives from the People’s Republic of China are aware of this important issue, but are held back by the costs associated with more environmentally-friendly forms of production and consumption.
I believe that the EU should be much more proactive on this issue than it has been so far.
Perhaps protecting the environment and green technology could be future areas in which EU businesses can invest in China.
The second issue which is mentioned in the report, and which I feel should become a major topic of negotiation with representatives from the People's Republic of China – but also an area in which Europe should share experiences – is that of health protection in the work place, social support, social dialogue, the prevention of child labour and ensuring basic rights for workers.
Let us lend a helping hand and contribute towards finding solutions to these complex problems that will above all lead to raising the standards of those who are most directly involved in the Chinese miracle. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that, in recent years, the European Union has become China’s second most important trading partner.
What are even more worrying are the problems relating to human rights and, more specifically, the rights of women and children; the absence in many cases of minimum health and safety standards in the workplace; and even the existence of labour camps.
China is the second largest world power in the world and is neither a democracy nor has a market economy.
By 2010, China wants to create the world’s most powerful economic block, together with the ASEAN countries.
Since enlargement, the EU has become China’s largest trading partner, which is why relations with China are so important to us.
We should, however, remember that a purely economic approach to our relations will not reveal to us the true face of the Chinese dragon.
There are political prisoners in its jails, there is no freedom of speech and there is censorship.
The communist party continues to be the only true path.
Economic interests have brought China closer to countries with problems such as Iran, Sudan or Venezuela.
Competition for raw materials will put increased pressure on our relations with China in the future.
China’s energy policy has led the country to make bilateral agreements that undermine all efforts to stabilise the price of oil.
Only a fully independent Taiwan is a guarantee of peace in the Far East.
I repeat: only a fully independent Taiwan is a guarantee of peace in the Far East.
Having heard here the words of such a high spiritual authority as the Dalai Lama, which moved us all, I feel – and I am expressing myself freely here – that our responses to the Tibetan tragedy, which is the tragedy of a holocaust and of the cultural genocide of a nation, are very weak and fundamentally ineffective.
The final result needs to be a balanced one that reflects the developing, positive relationship between two huge economic blocs while not shying away from the real and difficult concerns that exist on issues of human rights and the promotion of democracy; issues which we in Parliament claim to be serious about.
Massive economic opportunities exist for both parties to grow and take advantage of new markets.
That being said, however, we must be firm and consistent in our efforts to ensure that with the developing trade relationship must also come democratic development and an increased respect for human rights.
I was relieved to hear Mrs De Keyser clarify that the PSE Group’s objections are not based on concerns over the references to human rights issues; but that was until I heard what Mr Ford had to say.
The report is certainly not dominated by human rights concerns, but it does ask the hard questions, and rightly so, if we are to be taken seriously by China in relation to human rights issues, such as the need to guarantee genuine religious freedom; the concern at reports of widespread torture in Chinese prisons and reports of inhumane, degrading treatment and internment without trial; the laogai system of detention centres and labour camps; forced compliance with family planning policy; censorship of the internet and recent reports of sourcing human organs from prisoners.
In fact, I would congratulate her on her very balanced presentation this evening.
These are serious concerns that demand our attention as we proceed to develop the closer relationship with China that we all accept is inevitable and desirable. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, according to the official statistics of the Chinese national statistics office, the rate of growth of the Chinese economy for the whole of 2005 has been revised from 9.9% to 10.2%, due to faster growth in industrial activity and the services sector.
China is the biggest consumer of electricity in the world and the third biggest oil importer, which makes it the regulator of energy policy and of economic development at international and regional level.
It is a development scenario which is an unobtainable dream for Europe and the United States.
However, the European Union must not under any circumstances deal with the emergence of China in global trade and the economy as a threat, but as an important new market which offers new possibilities and important opportunities for the economic development and strengthening of the European market itself.
While we are on the subject, we must concentrate, as I would say to the Commissioner (and as I would like to say to the Council, too, but unfortunately it is not present) – the President has the light behind him, so he might be taking part in a Chinese shadow puppet show – on three issues that require our attention, starting with Internet freedom.
This is undoubtedly a Chinese problem, but it is also true that the technology for oppressing Chinese citizens via the Internet comes from the United States and Europe.
Secondly: Europol.
It really seems the height of contradiction to me that we should cooperate with the Chinese police.
It is all very well saying these things to China, but we ourselves, as Europe, must try to deal with them. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the late reaction of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has quite astonished me, since there was plenty of time in the long process leading up to the resolution for it to express its opinion.
However, such cooperation should bring benefits to both parties.
Unfortunately, as far as relations between China and the EU are concerned, this healthy principle has been skewed, to the detriment of Europe.
The reasons are as follows.
Thirdly, the Chinese currency is significantly over-valued compared to the dollar or the euro.
Suffice it to say that as many as 70% of all pirated products on the European market originate in China.
In such circumstances, the European Commission must do everything in its power to minimise unfair competition from China.
Finally, the European Commission must offer a comprehensive aid package to those sectors of the European economy that have, to date, suffered from unfair Chinese competition. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased there is room for a brief comment.
I should like to address a few observations to my fellow Members.
First of all, I should like to extend warm thanks to the Commissioner for her response to the content of my report.
Her commitment is evident.
Chinese experts who are involved in this say they need social values.
Be fair in your ... &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I am glad to have an opportunity to speak after the rapporteur’s concluding remark.
We want this constructive strategic relationship and partnership with China.
It is vital that this responsibility should be linked to human rights.
China has experienced intensive economic development, but it must produce evidence of the large-scale liberalisation not only of the economy, but also of the political system.
I will defend the One China policy, but only if it is based on the free decision of all interested parties, and this cannot be achieved through violence.
We want relations with this great country, with China, but I think that in doing so we must also respect the common rules of international humanitarian law, and that this is the only basis for stable progress. &#160;&#160; – I should like, if I may, to concentrate in the short time allotted to me on one aspect of economic relations between the EU and China.
The EU has become China’s biggest partner and, on the other side of that coin, China has become the Union’s second biggest partner.
China should be called upon to make substantial improvements in the protection of intellectual property rights and international inventions, to strengthen current legislation on the protection of intellectual property rights and of course to reinforce the activities of the country’s civil courts in solving cases of industrial piracy.
One example of positive cooperation is in foreign policy.
I therefore welcome emphatically this House’s call for the reopening of the office of the German liberal Friedrich Naumann Foundation in Peking, which was forced to close in 1996.
It is important that the Foundation should resume its work of promoting democracy and development, and this must be implemented.
It would be an important contribution to the development of the strategic partnership.
I would like to add that I believe we should be conducting this debate in Brussels rather than in Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to offer my greetings to the Presidency, to you, Commissioner, and – in its absence – to the Presidency of the Council.
The EU is known around the world as a champion of human rights, at the same time it is China’s most important trading partner.
It is on this basis that we need to act.
We all know about the serious violations of human rights in Tibet and in China, and that, time and time again, our Parliament calls upon China to respect those human rights.
The EU makes respect for human rights into a condition of cooperation with all countries, without exception.
Nevertheless, it remains a one-party communist dictatorship, sharing little in the way of common values with the EU, unlike India, which shares the West’s respect for democracy and human rights.
One rare example of common interest is in the fight against international Islamist terrorism, as China has problems with its own Uighur Muslim minorities.
Regrettably, however, in its quest for international support and, in particular, energy security, China has recently courted terrorist-sponsoring Iran, and along with Russia refused to impose UN sanctions for Iran’s continuing uranium enrichment programme.
EU criticism of human rights in China is a good thing in itself.
China is also obstructing full democracy in Hong Kong, dear to my heart as a British MEP.
In its recent anti-secession laws, China has also shown a belligerent attitude towards democratic Taiwan, which serves as a model to completely rebut those who say that China is too big and Chinese people too culturally different from the West to have democracy and high standards of human rights.
Therefore, we must maintain the arms embargo imposed by the EU.
We cannot ignore China with its annual 11% growth rates, but we must also not shy away from criticising this very great country when it is appropriate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to say, firstly, that we clearly all agree on the strategic importance of relations with China and I believe that we all share the concern about the situation in terms of human rights and public freedoms.
This is not a competition to see who cares most about human rights, because I truly believe that this House is united in that respect.
The Communist Party governing the country and controlling national funds is able to interfere in the economy, while state institutions are trying to maintain their influence via bureaucratic procedures and administrative requirements, thus impeding access of EU investments and goods to this market as well as their effect upon the market.
After China joined the WTO, Chinese products flooded the EU market.
The balance of trade of EU Member States with China is becoming increasingly unfavourable to the EU.
Considering the EU-China strategic partnership that began in 2003, we must pursue China's contribution to make conditions beneficial to foreign trade, improve legal protection for foreign investments and open markets for EU goods and investments. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in the first draft of the EU-China report, the name Tibet does not even appear.
I am very grateful to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for having supported the amendments proposed by myself and my colleagues in the Tibet intergroup.
Human rights are not a minor issue, but the starting point of our political activity.
We condemn the severe human rights violations in Tibet, the oppression of religious freedom, arbitrary arrests or torture.
We expressly support the negotiations between the Chinese authorities and the representatives of His Holiness, also regarding genuine autonomy for Tibet.
In paragraph&#160;82 we demand the abolition of the death penalty and increased protection for minorities.
The Belder report bears out this view, but it does contain some important, relevant points.
Firstly, it goes into great detail about the human rights situation and the political, economic, social, labour and environmental problems in China, which are particularly prevalent among minorities such as the Tibetans and the Uighur.
Secondly, the Belder report highlights the importance of China taking seriously its responsibilities as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
Ultimately, China knows that it can achieve what it wants through peaceful means, as in the examples of Hong Kong and Macau, not least as regards its relations with African countries.
Lastly, and most importantly, this report reminds us of the Tiananmen massacre and the importance of maintaining an arms embargo against a regime that refuses to face its own past.
Clear evidence of the symbolic political importance of this embargo is Beijing’s eagerness to see it lifted at all costs.
I support the maximum amount of interaction between the EU and Beijing at all levels and in all fields, for example, the economic, political, trade and cultural fields.
With regard to the latest trade disputes, the European Union must not fail to ensure that intellectual property rules are respected and permit easier access to the Chinese market.
Let us ensure, Commissioner, that China has as much need of us as we have of China. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, China is a strategic partner for the EU and Europe acknowledges China’s status as a rising power on the international stage.
In recent years, relations between China and Europe have improved in many fields, particularly in trade, as well as in the field of technical and scientific cooperation.
The most important example of strategic partnership is perhaps cooperation on Galileo, the European satellite navigation programme.
As a rising economic power and permanent member of the UN Security Council and a member of the WTO, China bears increasing responsibility for international security and global peace.
It is from this point of view that I would like to draw attention to the information sent by Amnesty International to the Finnish presidency in relation to the EU-China summit to be held on 9&#160;September this year.
Amnesty International has drawn attention to violations of human rights in China.
Their information raises the question of the use of capital punishment in China, ‘re-education’ through forced labour, arbitrary arrest and detention, the use of torture and persecution against human rights activists and lack of media freedom in that country.
Amnesty International has also raised the issue of the sale of arms by China to Sudan as an example of a foreign policy that ignores fundamental human rights in the modern world.
The European Union must combine its strategic partnership with China with work to persuade the Chinese authorities to expand political and personal freedoms in the Chinese system and to truly observe the constitution and international treaties to which China is a signatory. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when engaged in a partnership with a dictatorship, the crucial issue is to create a credible balance between economic and strategic interests on the one hand, and democratic values on the other.
Indeed, we must face the reality that increased economic relations have not resulted in any real progress in the field of the rule of law.
Therefore, our message for the EU-China summit should be that there will be no automatic progress in economic relations without real progress in the rule of law.
The EU, as China’s largest trading partner, has the leverage to force China’s leaders to start implementing genuine democratic reforms.
EU Members States are, in all probability, importing large quantities of goods produced by prisoners in laogai torture camps.
The EU should stress the seriousness it attaches to this by appointing an EU special representative for Tibetan affairs.
Taiwan-China policy should fully respect the democratic choices of the 23 million inhabitants of Taiwan.
We should also insist that Beijing allow Taiwan to enter into practical cooperation with the World Health Organisation and other international bodies. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is the region in the world with the greatest buying power, and that speaks for itself.
As the speaker on questions of energy for the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the issue of energy and the issue of Kyoto are matters of particular importance to me.
China plays a very important role in the field of coal: 75% of its energy is produced from coal and, Mr&#160;Brok, only 1% from nuclear energy.
We can see that energy is a central challenge, and I would ask the Commissioner to properly address this issue at the summit. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to make a few brief comments.
Such Representatives are expensive, and there is already in any case an inflated number of Special Representatives, whom no one is able to inspect.
For this reason, it is important in my view that we find solutions that can work within the framework of the Commission.
I should like to add that the vast majority of subjects raised tonight will also feature clearly on the summit agenda and I will report back to you on that.
Let me make a general point on the relationship between trade and human rights, which is a central theme of this report.
Let me come back to some specific points that have been raised tonight.
Firstly, on Tibet, we share the concerns expressed by the European Parliament regarding the human rights situation in Tibet and in particular the preservation of the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the Tibetan people.
We have regularly addressed the issue of Tibet in the framework of the EU-China bilateral dialogue on human rights, as well as at the highest political level, including summits.
As part of this overall policy vis-à-vis Tibet, for many years we have been asking for the establishment of a direct dialogue between the Dalai Lama and the Chinese authorities, as that is the only realistic way to find a peaceful and lasting solution to the question.
We have therefore taken note of the talks between the envoys of the Dalai Lama and the representatives of China.
Flights across the Straits have resumed, but an inclusive dialogue with all parties in Taiwan is also needed.
As Mr Lambsdorff said, it is important to talk about China to the US about common concerns, for example on open markets and human rights, because we can achieve more together vis-à-vis China.
On the long-standing issue of the arms embargo, it is true that we are willing to continue working towards a possible lifting of the embargo, on the basis of our joint statement of 2004, the EU-China Summit and the subsequent European Council conclusions.
However, at the same time, we have left China with no doubt as to the importance of progress on human rights in order to create a more positive atmosphere for lifting the embargo.
We have also made clear our commitment to ensure that lifting the embargo would not lead to any substantive change in the strategic balance in the Asian region and that the national security of friendly and allied countries would be fully taken into account.
On the very specific and important issue of shoes, let me say that on 30&#160;August 2006 the Commission adopted a proposal to impose anti-dumping duties on certain leather shoes from China and Vietnam.
Again, as I said at the start, we are committed to human rights, social and economic rights, which include in particular freedom of expression, religion, association and protection of the rights of minorities.
I should also like to re-emphasise what I said before about the Falun Gong.
Finally, in response to Mr Brok, and as I said at the beginning, we need China to become a responsible member of the international community, but more than just a stakeholder: it needs to be a positive and an active contributing partner.
All of that will feature prominently in our communication, which will be available in the autumn. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The Commission is not alone in this task either, because it already has the guidelines issued by the FAO, and debates in many international fora, including the World Trade Organisation.
Governments, NGOs, private companies and fishermen have also expressed their opinions.
We believe that, in a global sense, a Community system of labelling must be consistent with the existing guidelines of international bodies, that it must not lead to any kind of discrimination, nor create obstacles to trade, particularly that of the least-developed countries, and that it must act as a weapon for combating illegal fishing by denying it access to the markets.
I am pleased at the high degree of interest they have shown in the Commission’s communication.
In fact, the report is a fitting and valuable contribution to the debate on eco-labelling.
Together with other actions proposed by the Commission, such as the implementation of sustainability which leads to sustainable yields, or the promotion of more environment-friendly fishing methods, I see eco-labelling as a complementary tool for a more environment-friendly fisheries policy.
At the same time it satisfies the interests of both consumers and the industry.
I would like to thank Mr Morillon for his description of eco-labelling as a positive sanction supporting sustainable behaviour.
Eco-labelling is a relatively new approach in the context of sustainable fisheries management.
The active participation of the Community in the FAO debate has given us an early advantage, and by launching the debate and participating in fruitful exchanges of views we have strengthened our leading position in this matter.
The definition of the notion of sustainability is at the heart of the debate.
The expert group is on the point of concluding its work.
Based on that work the Commission will draft guidelines for the setting-up of eco-labelling schemes and will propose a list of minimum requirements against which private eco-labelling schemes could be assessed.
I have taken note of the resolution’s request for a communication to be addressed to the Council and to Parliament within the next six months.
However, at this point in time, the shape and form of the Commission’s proposals have still to be determined.
All this will give us a further opportunity to discuss the future Community approach towards eco-labelling on a consolidated and even more informed basis.
With regard to Amendments 1 and 2, the Commission believes that eco-labelling is a tool that will contribute to a more sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and improve the effectiveness of the Common Fisheries Policy.
With regard to Amendment 3, it reiterates some of the advantages of adopting the third option for establishing minimum requirements for voluntary eco-labelling schemes, as mentioned in the Commission communication.
I thank you for this report and the wider debate generated on eco-labelling.
I am confident that at the end of this process we can put into operation a proper basis for eco-labelling schemes that should have far-reaching and positive effects. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Fraga, on the quality of her finely nuanced report which successfully reflects the complexity of what is at stake.
Indeed, there is no denying the facts: the overexploitation of fisheries resources affects 25% of species and, in the case of a number of these, in a particularly worrying way.
We have our doubts about the option favoured by the Commission in this debate, namely that of establishing minimum demands – as referred to by the Commissioner – regarding these eco-labelling schemes.
The report states that the European Union must address the issue of curbing the proliferation of different eco-labels and guarantee the establishment of a Community system that is based on the same principles and on the same basic requirements.
The change in living habits and the introduction of new technologies have led to an evolution amongst European consumers, who are increasingly concerned about their health and also the protection of the environment.
I am therefore delighted that the Commission is at last dealing with this debate on systems of labelling for fisheries products with a view to defining the European Union’s approach to this issue.
Clearly, whatever system we develop must be voluntary, in the sense that companies should be able to choose whether or not to become involved.
I wish to emphasise two aspects of Mrs&#160;Fraga&#160;Estévez’ report.
Independent control, as mentioned in paragraph&#160;6, is very important in conferring credibility.
We must therefore ensure that it can be exploited and puts small-scale fisheries in a fair competitive position. &#160;&#160; . – I too would like to thank Mrs&#160;Fraga&#160;Estévez for her report.
Nevertheless, any eco-labelling of fisheries products caught on the basis of criteria other than those laid down in existing legislation concerning the fishing catch may lead to discrimination between producers.
Eco-labelling also takes place in farming, aquaculture and processed foods, enabling issues relating to the environment and food safety to be properly addressed.
This is the right way forward for defining the rules on this issue, in which there is a legal vacuum.
As regards the issue of the added value that may accrue from this kind of labelling, we believe that there is a need to ensure its distribution in the value chain in order that producers’ efforts and investments might be rewarded without consumers being penalised. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the principle of eco-labelling is sound.
The danger is that when the EU bureaucracy and red tape get to work, the system that emerges could be unwieldy, excessively burdensome and very expensive.
The most that the EU should do is to set minimum requirements to be met by voluntary eco-labelling schemes.
It comes on a good day: a day when Northern Ireland football supporters won the coveted Brussels International Supporters Award for 2006, which is sponsored and supported by the EU.
I shall end on that happy note. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I should first like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Fraga&#160;Estévez on her outstanding report and to say that in view of the growing interest in safe, high-quality food products, the need to preserve marine ecosystems and the recent upsurge in products with what is known as eco-labelling, a Community approach to eco-labelling is urgently needed.
The problem is that not all environmental certification programmes prioritise the protection of the biological heritage of our oceans.
In this way, on the basis of these pre-established minimum requirements, eco-labelling schemes can develop freely, on a flexible, voluntary basis, via public or private initiatives, yet within a generic regulatory framework.
Promoting and applying eco-labelling systems strengthens environmental awareness among consumers, thereby encouraging environmental responsibility among producers, by making them more aware of the environmental repercussions of fisheries and aquaculture.
In that sense, I have to say that I agree with the report by Mrs&#160;Fraga&#160;Estévez.
In that sense, I am pleased with this report and pleased that this House, by means of Mrs&#160;Fraga Estévez’&#160;report, can make a positive step towards sound qualified European eco-labelling. &#160;&#160; – I should also like to congratulate both our rapporteur from the Committee on Fisheries and the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
This is incompatible with a system in which the Commission has a secondary role and in which publicity concerns carry greater weight than a series of tight, objective criteria.
This will protect both fish stocks and consumers.
We will all win from these efforts: consumers will win because they will be supplied with safe and healthy products, undertakings will win because they will increase their competitiveness and the environment will win because its resources will be exploited ecologically.
Fifthly and lastly, this effort and the principles laid down and adopted by the European Union must be combined with similar action on a global scale and all the states must adopt these principles, because it makes no sense if the European Union alone is protecting the environment. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the rapporteur’s of the environmental debate sums up our current experience, and particularly that of the FAO.
However, their position expressed a preference for certain aspects of the problem of labelling.
Firstly, the Baltic states decidedly support the idea of establishing minimum requirements for eco-labelling programmes, in line with the expectations of the parties involved, namely the fishermen, processors and consumers.
Secondly, the principle of voluntary participation must mean, in practice, the rejection of all economic discrimination or trade barriers.
Thirdly, a major element of these guarantees must be to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises and firms from less developed countries have equal access to the system.
At the moment, it is easier to see a difference in terms of environmental consequences in the aquaculture sector, where labelling is far easier to introduce.
Mr Maat was right when he said that the Commission must make a good job of it.
Finally, can I say to Mrs Fraga Estévez and to you, Mr President, there is great joy in Belfast tonight: we beat the Spanish football team 3-2.
Northern Ireland is a very small place of one and a half million people, and we have had many problems over the years.
Let me refer to some specific points that were raised during the debate.
However, although a preference for Option 3 the Commission’s preferred option which is to say the setting of minimum criteria, seems to be emerging, no agreement has yet been reached between Member States at Council level.
However, this debate has certainly helped to better inform us on Parliament’s position and on that of its various Members.
On the issue of the harvesting of fisheries resources in a sustainable way, I wish to refer to the Commission’s communication, which underlines that the aim of the policy on eco-labelling for fish and fisheries products is based on the concept of sustainable fishing.
The communications spells out that eco-labelling schemes, if based on clearly-defined criteria and appropriate indicators, can assist in both monitoring the progress made on sustainability in fishing and in raising public awareness on sustainability issues.
It goes on to make reference to sustainable exploitation with regard to Article 3(e) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2371/2002.
For more than 100 years, The Hague Conference on Private International Law has worked tirelessly and with an ever-growing number of countries across the globe to put together numerous international conventions on civil law subjects: sale of goods, testamentary dispositions, child abduction, maintenance obligations and road-traffic accidents.
They have striven to provide a coherent legal framework in an increasingly mobile world.
Over the last years as a parliamentarian, I have had the privilege, on behalf of this House, to attend many of The Hague meetings, to get to know the people behind this apparently rather technical and distant exercise, to see the officials and national experts at their work, drafting and negotiating very complex and technical agreements to assist our citizens.
Up until now, the Community has been represented by all its individual Member States and, from my limited observations, that also brings a richness and strength to the work of the conference because of the diversity of our own legal traditions and our own comparative legal experience.
In every practical sense it already does this through joint coordination meetings and, in any event, the conference works by consensus.
It is a good thing, a positive and timely development.
However, there is a caveat; it is contained at the end of the explanatory statement to my report and set out in more detail in our chairman’s motion for a resolution.
I say ‘possibly detracting’, because tonight we look to the Commissioner for reassurance that Parliament will continue to be fully involved in the future work when new conventions are negotiated and new or old ones ratified by the Community.
We have to find new working methods that fully respect Parliament’s position as co-legislator with the Council.
Much as I have enjoyed over the last years attending Hague Conference meetings as a sort of ad hoc representative of this House, we now need something much more formal and transparent that reflects the new role of our institutions in this process.
They deserve that attention because they not only achieve positive outcomes for our citizens but also, increasingly, involve making political choices and balancing interests.
This is work that cries out for more parliamentary involvement and I know that this is something The Hague Conference would also welcome.
However, this should not be seen as in any way excusing the need for this House to be fully involved in the Community’s legislative process in relation to the work of the Conference.
It is quite clear, however, that acceding to the Hague Conference will enable the Community to obtain a status that effectively corresponds to its new role as a leading player on the international stage, thus as an actor that needs to play a practical and formal part in the activities of the Hague Conference.
This need for more coherence justifies and warrants the Community’s formal accession to the Hague Conference.
As all Members are aware, once the European Parliament has given its consent, the Community can formally accede to the Hague Conference as soon as two-thirds of the States signatory to the Conference have endorsed the amendments to the statute.
Some Member States have still not voiced their opinion, but I am confident that consent will be given by December of this year.
We all know that the framework agreement concerning relations between the Commission and the European Parliament has been amended recently: the agreement clearly permits the involvement, including at a formal level, of Parliament in the negotiation of international agreements in areas of Community competence, and this certainly comes under Community competence.
I can assure Mrs&#160;Wallis and all Members both that Parliament will be kept fully and constantly informed about the negotiating activities and that it will be involved in the delegations, in the negotiating activities.
Finally, I can confirm this possibility straight away and, when the Community has formally acceded to the Hague Conference, it will become a reality. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, fellow Members, the accession of the Community to the Hague Conference on Private International Law is certainly a good thing.
The Community will thus be able to take an active part in defining the Conference’s priorities and ensure that these fit in well with the Commission’s work programme.
The support measures might include definition by the Council and Parliament of the mandate in matters relating to codecision, production of a legal and economic impact study at the beginning of negotiations and systematic reflection on the appropriateness of inserting disconnection clauses into the draft conventions.
Like our rapporteur, whom I congratulate, I consider it necessary for Parliament to be consulted when it comes to the draft conventions and to defining the priorities of the Conference’s work programme.
In short, the Commissioner has told us that this possibility for Parliament to participate in the procedure for adopting agreements within the Hague Conference is laid down in the institutional framework agreement and that the European Parliament could therefore formally take part in these negotiations.
European Union law in the private field is still largely national law and therefore the creation of that parliamentary forum would enable us to harmonise positions.
The great problem with private international law, as we all know, and with private law in general, is that it involves national laws that come from differing traditions.
Not so many years ago, when I met with other people teaching private international law in different universities, mixing up private international law or private law with European Union law was a heresy, because the European Union simply dealt, at most, with fishing, international trade and competition, but did not really deal with private law issues.
Today, the European Union is very much involved in private law, because today, although we still have much to do, the European Union deals with the private consequences – private law – of European citizenship, its direct impact on people’s private domain and the consequences of freedom of establishment and movement on private law for persons and companies.
Within this context, therefore, the accession of the European Union – the Community, strictly speaking – to the Hague Conference is a very important step and, I would insist, demonstrates the maturity of the European Union; it demonstrates that we still have a long way to go, including, amongst other things, in how these rules should be drawn up: third pillar, first pillar, etc.
This is not the time to discuss it, but it is something that will improve the quality of our legislation and will undoubtedly enable the European Union to bring its own priorities to the Hague Conference.
I believe that the continual strengthening legal certainty for our citizens is also undoubtedly an issue here. &#160;&#160; –Mr President, since the implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty, the competences of the European Union have included measures concerning judicial cooperation in cross-border civil matters necessary for the proper operation of the internal market.
It is a fact that, to date, a series of legal instruments has been adopted in this area, with others in the pipeline.
Furthermore, acquiring full membership constitutes an important step towards deeper European integration, by placing the EU in a new international role in the field of judicial collaboration in civil matters.
I would like to stress that I myself was pleased to hear Commissioner Frattini’s words, because from the perspective of the European Parliament, which has played an active role in the Community legislative process, and in particular from the perspective of the Legal Commission, which is responsible for the issue of private law, we must pay special attention to the procedural frameworks that define the methods and the rules for future cooperation of Parliament in matters pertaining to the Hague Conference, and for consultation on convention projects. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
