Preparation of European Council (Seville, 21/22 June 2002), including situation between India and Pakistan The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the preparation of the European Council in Seville on 21 and 22 June 2002, including the situation between India and Pakistan.
Barcelona represented the continuation of the process inaugurated at the Lisbon European Council, which focused on a programme of economic reforms in the aim of making the European Union the most dynamic and competitive region in the world in the context of the new economy of the information society.
In Seville, therefore, and as a follow-up to Barcelona, the following issues will be examined: firstly, Ecofin - which is due to meet on 20 June, before the European Council - will present a final report on the adoption of the broad economic policy guidelines.
The Presidency intends to present a report on the current state of work on the tax package, which includes a range of initiatives on savings tax, energy tax and cooperation with tax authorities.
For this reason, the report by the high level working group on company law must discuss three issues: the role of non-executive directors and of boards of directors, company directors' pay and the board of directors' responsibility for preparing information about the company's finances.
Issues of Justice and Home Affairs have been one of the main priorities of the Spanish Presidency of the Union.
In Seville we will be pressing ahead on these issues in four main areas: firstly, a review of Community asylum and immigration policy will be undertaken - basically a review of the Tampere commitments - as well as an assessment of the situation and a clear programme to fulfil the commitments that we adopted in 1999 during the Finnish Presidency, as a consequence of the communitarisation of Justice and Home Affairs issues, formalised in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Secondly, the Heads of State and Government will be discussing a global plan to combat illegal immigration.
With regard to the first issue I mentioned, the European Council, in line with the conclusions of the Tampere Council and of following Councils, is going to urge the Council to approve, within the deadlines laid down in the Treaty of Amsterdam, the necessary legislative instruments to adopt a common asylum and immigration policy.
Secondly, the negotiations currently underway on adopting a common policy in the field of asylum and legal immigration will be given a boost if at the same time the Union develops a common policy to combat illegal immigration, which produces effective results in the short and medium term.
For these reasons, on 28 February of this year, the Council approved its plan to combat illegal immigration.
In this context, the communication that the Commission presented recently, entitled "Towards integrated management of the external borders of the Member States of the European Union" takes on particular importance.
Lastly, on the basis of the agreement reached at the Laeken Summit, in Seville the European Council will demonstrate its desire to integrate immigration policy much more deeply into the Union's external actions.
The guiding principle of external action in the field of immigration and asylum with the countries of origin and of transit must be a global, integrated and balanced approach, which uses all the Community and Member States' instruments in a coordinated way to establish a relationship of cooperation with a view to ensuring the joint management of migratory flows, and to address the underlying causes of these flows and of poverty, in order to incorporate this dimension into development aid policy.
Something else that will be raised is the development of an external strategy for areas in the immediate vicinity of borders to cooperate in the management and control of migratory flows.
The other major package of issues, to which I referred at the beginning, is everything that concerns institutional affairs, the debate on the future of Europe and the reform of the Council.
With regard to the first issue, the Convention on the future of Europe held its inaugural sitting on 28 February, as you will remember, because this took place in the seat of the European Parliament, and before Seville, the Convention will already have held five plenary sessions.
On the one hand, the majority of the members of the Convention have shown themselves to be in favour of going more deeply into the process of European integration in a realistic way, in particular with regard to the distribution of competences.
On the other hand, and in relation to the works of the Convention, the Presidium has agreed to set up six working groups, which are to present their conclusions between September and November.
With regard to the reform of the Council, and in accordance with the conclusions of the Barcelona European Council, the Presidency will present a report in Seville on improving its functioning and on reforms to make it more effective on the basis of the report submitted by the Secretary General of the Council, in the aim of ensuring greater transparency in the legislative process and in which practical measures for its adoption will be put forward.
The Council will, therefore, be considering a set of practical reforms that will make the work of the European Council more rapid and more dynamic and which, furthermore, as you would expect, move towards the system employed by the Councils that support the European Council.
I hope that the European Council can now begin to attempt to simplify its administrative tasks so as to prepare the Union for a scenario in which, following enlargement, we will have 25 Member States.
The Palestinians affected by the agreement have been transferred to various Member States of the Union - Spain, Belgium, Ireland, Italy and Portugal - to be accepted, for humanitarian reasons, in line with the common position reached by the Council on 21 May.
The adoption of this common position underlines the commitment of the European Union to achieving a lasting peace in the Middle East.
At the same time, the Council will study developments in issues of security and defence policy, in particular, in relation to the fight against terrorism and the follow-up to the Laeken mandate.
Despite having historically been strictly bilateral, this conflict today contains a new dimension, which transcends the sub-regional consequences to become a potential factor for destabilisation for the entire Asian Continent and for the whole world.
After the encouraging speech given by President Musharraf on 12 January, New Delhi reacted with a sense of historical opportunity to this conciliatory gesture by Pakistan and agreed to stop military mobilisation.
We only have to remember the tone of the disappointing speech by the President of Pakistan on 27 May and the cold rigidity of India's response to the calls for containment made at the highest political levels.
The Union has to date wished to maintain a position that is as even-handed as possible in this conflict, insisting on the need for both sides to make efforts to reconcile their positions.
This was the idea that inspired the Presidency declaration on this matter, issued on 21 May.
For this reason, Pakistan's commitment against organised terror must be total and unconditional and not selective in its efforts or in the deadlines it sets.
Since 17 May, more than 60 people have died at the India-Pakistan border; a million soldiers from the two sides are watching each other from the line of control, awaiting orders to start a conflict which, if it happens, - whatever its final outcome may be - will mean desolation and death for the population of both countries.
Consequently, as I have already said, the European Union will continue to help ensure that both sides understand the need to keep the paths of dialogue open, in order to prevent a military scenario arising, the consequences of which would have a tragic affect on the entire continent of Asia.
I have to say that my task has been made much easier by the first-rate work of the current Council Presidency.
Our final opinion on each candidate country will be issued before the October European Council in Brussels.
There are many issues to be discussed at Seville, but today, before you, the Members of the European Parliament, I want to concentrate on two in particular: how the EU is run and immigration.
President Giscard d'Estaing will be reporting on the first stage of the Convention's work at Seville and we shall pay careful attention to what he has to say.
The Convention is working on policies for the future but we must also use the - albeit limited - instruments we have to hand to tackle today's problems.
Mr Corbett's proposals on the reform of Parliament that you are discussing in this part-session are also similar in this regard.
This was the idea behind the White Paper on European Governance: to exploit all the opportunities available in the present legal framework in order to improve the legislative and decision-making process.
The system must therefore be leaner, more transparent and more efficient.
Transparency and democratic accountability demand that each of the institutions refocus its efforts on its core tasks.
In this way, we can start right now to see how the Community method can be revamped in practical terms.
These efforts will help us to tackle the problems that the forthcoming enlargement will bring for the working of our institutions.
The Commission is ready to play its part in this joint endeavour.
There are a variety of reasons for this and they have been somewhat accentuated by the events of September 11 too.
We even have before us suitable proposals for achieving those objectives such as those set out in the Commission communication on illegal immigration, which formed the basis for the Council's Action Plan.
The political signals we have received recently are quite clear.
We cannot put the issue of security on the back burner, and we cannot let people think that a return to nationalistic solutions can provide a valid answer to transnational phenomena that overwhelm the capacity and scope for action of individual States and can therefore be tackled and managed only at EU level.
Most importantly, we must tighten controls on the Union's external borders in accordance with the recent proposals put forward by the Commission and the Italian Government.
In the Euro-Mediterranean context, we have already launched initiatives together with Morocco to devise an overall approach to the issue of immigration.
In addition, we must step up the adoption and implementation of measures on asylum, not least in order to give practical substance to the concept of European citizenship and certain principles enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
We will soon be putting forward practical proposals on these points.
The two topics I have concentrated on today are of crucial importance for us at this time.
Making our institutions more democratic, transparent and accountable is a response to our fellow citizens' demand for a more effective Europe that is more in touch with their everyday concerns.
I say to the Council, on behalf of Parliament, that we have a strong expectation that Seville will deliver a platform for an interinstitutional dialogue of substance in order to produce a common accord on better regulation and on better law-making - an objective we all share and agree on - and each in our own way, each institution is indispensable to a successful reform.
Prime Minister and President-in-Office José María Aznar has promised this to Parliament and I really do implore you to pass a resolution for us in Seville setting up this sort of political working party.
As far as the reform of the Council is concerned, I quite understand your reticence, Mr President-in-Office, and I assume it is because you do not as yet have a brief to discuss it.
You said that the president of the convention, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, would be submitting a report.
I would be delighted if all the governments of the Member States of the European Union were to follow suit, if their representatives to the convention also reported back to their cabinets and governments in the Member States of the European Union, in order to ensure there is direct feedback, just as we do at parliamentary level.
But we must also say to the Palestinians that they have their dignity and the right to live within secure borders in a Palestinian state.
We welcome your efforts in the fight against terrorism, we welcome your efforts to set up a common European border police to protect the external borders of the European Union and we hope that Seville will bring results.
We recognise that Spain's efforts on the Sixth Research Framework Programme have been a huge success and we also hope - and this will be discussed more thoroughly this afternoon - to confirm the timetable for the enlargement of the European Union.
We, the European Parliament, we, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, see ourselves as the champion of the nations seeking to join the European Union and my only request, from the bottom of my heart, is that we all help to keep to this timetable. (Applause) Mr President, as made clear in the speeches both by the Presidency and by those party spokespeople who have spoken, Seville will be the last summit of the Spanish Presidency and, although this is not the time to draw up the final balance sheet, this is the time to take a brief look at how it has performed its duties and to see whether we are likely to pass or even to get a good mark.
It could be said that these five months have been characterised by an excessive fuss about most of the issues set as priorities for the Presidency's term in office.
On the issue of immigration and asylum, for example, for more than a month, we have been repeating, ad nauseam, the conclusions of the Tampere Council; commitments that the Council has been unable to fulfil due to a lack of political will.
Cutting back on the powers of our common institutions is a defensive reaction that can only lead to failure.
To conclude, it could be said that, to date, we are quite dissatisfied, but that we would like nothing more than to change our minds and, in the days remaining, in the final stretch, for you to surprise us and for more light to appear and for some shadows to vanish.
In the past six months, a number of government leaders, including Prime Ministers Aznar and Blair, have come up with proposals on immigration.
The Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs have still not taken an effective decision on this matter.
Mr President, you will have noticed that I do not always have a high opinion of the functioning of the Council.
You will really have to give us, along with the European citizen, better information, so that we can continue to trust in the role of the Commission and the Council.
Mr President, firstly, I wish to pick up on a couple of points in the joint resolution, which my group will not be supporting, points which seem to be missing from the speeches we have heard this morning: for example, the welcome given to the International Criminal Court while regretting the position of the United States in seeking to protect its own citizens from it.
The European Parliament has also taken the view in the resolution that the Union should be taking a strong, leading role at the Johannesburg Summit, as it did on the Kyoto Protocol.
However, to do that it needs a commitment to sustainability in all aspects of its work, and that includes integration of social and environmental factors into its economic and trade policies.
The European Union wants a mobile, flexible workforce.
What we have been hearing over the last few weeks and today sounds to us simply like moving the walls of fortress Europe and looking for stronger building materials, including using the idea of economic clout - such as development aid - in our attempts to have other countries police their borders more effectively to stop people leaving.
I do not know whether this is a subtle strategy to achieve the unstated objective of reaching a common position on legal and illegal immigration or whether it is an objective devised to cover up other gaps and camouflage itself in the wave of xenophobia sweeping Europe.
I hope that immigration policies that respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that ensure equal treatment for immigrants, will be promoted in Seville.
Another problem is that the inclusion of immigration has disguised the disappearance of important issues such as enlargement.
Furthermore, the block by four States in the General Affairs Council last Monday highlights the extent of the problem.
A large number of Member States want a bigger market but not more Europe.
This is a model which, far from promoting social participation and cooperation for the greater good, places further pressure on the least protected sectors, blames the victims of the model itself and increases the possibilities of social exclusion and marginalisation.
The European Union may be an essential marker for world economic growth, but in order to achieve this, and for an upturn to become reality, the economic policy must change course.
The euro, the internal market, common policies and an increased Community budget must contribute to establishing an effective European economic government that is capable of encouraging economic growth and sustainable development, improving income distribution and achieving full employment.
Mr de Miguel, we do need more Europe, but, most of all, we also need a better Europe.
Mr President, firstly I would like to express my sincere thanks and appreciation to the Spanish Presidency for its very professional and successful approach to its many responsibilities and obligations.
Under the Spanish Presidency, negotiations for future European enlargement are continuing at a strong pace.
The European Union is currently dealing with difficult areas such as agricultural affairs, regional policy and budgetary matters.
We all know the moral arguments for enlargement of the Union.
The European Union is a political model that has helped to bring peace to our continent.
This process will be furthered, not diminished, by the enlargement of the Union.
But we must all reflect on the key practical procedure being used to streamline the enlargement of the Union.
In December 2000 European Union leaders agreed a set of Treaty reforms in Nice which they considered would be the best procedure for bringing about enlargement.
If the Treaty of Nice is not ratified by all 15 Member States, enlargement will undoubtedly be delayed.
If the Treaty of Nice is rejected by one Member State it is not valid law, because the proposed Treaty changes do not command the unanimous support of all the Member States.
Delaying enlargement would have a very negative effect on the development of the Union.
Prior to the birth of the EEC in 1957, Europe was bedevilled by hatred and division.
Thanks to the European Union, Europe's past has been put aside in the interests of peace and prosperity for all the peoples of Europe.
That is not to say that the Irish people do not have clear concerns which they want addressed before any further referendum on the Treaty of Nice.
The majority want assurances that Ireland's traditional military neutrality will be fully protected and respected by all Member States of the European Union.
It is very important that a declaration is agreed by all European Union leaders, spelling out in unequivocal terms that Ireland's military neutrality will be respected now and in the future.
Irish troops have always served in peace-keeping and humanitarian operations under the auspices of the United Nations.
Finally, the European Union is the natural home of the Irish, both geographically and politically.
The European Union must ensure that the interests of each individual citizen are protected at all times.
Mr President, I am able to support the separation of foreign and security policy from other EU cooperation and the restriction regarding the constitution of the Council, but I must disassociate myself from all the attempts to give the larger countries a greater share of presidencies and posts.
All countries must be equal in the EU - before, during and after the Seville Summit.
The proposed reform concerning transparency does not seriously open the Council of Ministers' work up to the public, let alone to the elected representatives in the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
It is not, however, until the end of the process that voting will be opened up and, because only a small number of proposals are voted on in practice, this part of the exercise is purely cosmetic.
A purely national bill can always be altered, whereas an EU bill can never be altered.
As regards Chechnya, the European Union and the Member States have shown themselves to be incapable of consistency.
I could mention other things such as measures for combating terrorism, measures which have been introduced: what has been done has been done in a disturbingly unbalanced way, in the name of security but very often with disregard for human rights, civil liberties and democracy.
The final issue is that of immigration.
We are still in a situation where the customs tariffs imposed on imports from the poorer countries in the world are greater than the aid we give those countries.
Secondly, it is important to bear in mind that summits give rise to a number of expectations that are not always fulfilled.
In this respect, the lines of thought announced by President Prodi on behalf of the European Commission seem to me to be particularly suitable.
Leaving aside the subject of the Barcelona mandate and the issue of accession - which will be the subject of a later debate this afternoon, and which will clearly show where the real difficulties of accession lie, as they are neither in the Presidency-in-Office nor in the Commission - I would like to express my satisfaction at the reference made by the President-in-Office of the Council to the fact that Seville will not interfere with the work of the Convention.
I therefore believe that we must clearly support the objectives expressed here by the Commission and by the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, emphasising two aspects: first, that this issue should not be used for the purposes of engaging in manipulative rhetoric, and secondly that we must find real solutions to real problems and try to strip this debate of ideological waffle.
It is important that we strike a balance between the European Union's tradition of welcome and hospitality - bearing in mind our values, as expressed in the fitting phrase 'immigrants might not have papers, but they shall have dignity? - and its actual possibilities, which are not unlimited.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, both we in this House and the people of Europe are waiting for the Council in Seville to send out clear, sensible messages on asylum, immigration and the integration of immigrants in Europe.
Europe must continue, for ethical reasons, to stand by the principles of a humanitarian asylum policy.
Mrs Rosa Díez González spoke of the Spanish Presidency's drum roll.
But if we take a close look at what the European Union as a whole has done to combat trafficking in human beings, then I for one see very little.
You only have to compare the openness and accessibility of this House with the situation in the Council.
In the meantime, as the President of the Commission mentioned, the Commission has tabled a number of proposals in this direction.
The Council has eagerly legislated on the first with half a dozen laws and a thirty-page action plan on illegal immigration, but it has lagged on harmonisation for a common asylum system and integration of minorities and migrants.
Accession countries are encouraged to seek EU membership as a beacon of democracy, liberty and tolerance but the Blair-Aznar-Berlusconi trio are making a mockery of that.
Next, I would like to say that the six priorities cited by the Spanish Presidency at the beginning of this semester have, in effect, been reduced to two: achieving a fortress Europe and militarising democratic life; and making Europe a police state.
And Mr Aznar sees himself as permanent President of the European Union.
The Irish referendum is neither planned nor completed; nor is enlargement, which is, furthermore, in an even more confused state; nor is the common agricultural policy, nor the common fisheries policy, where he failed to understand the real tension that exists between the northern and southern countries; immigration and asylum are confused with criminality and nothing has been done on the structural funds, on the European budget, on full employment, etc.
In fact, there is nothing left of Tampere, Lisbon or Gothenburg.
In fact, what is left is a caricature in which José María Aznar, the Spanish Prime Minister, plays the leading role.
Mr President, the European Council in Seville will be meeting in the wake of elections in a number of countries which have been marked by a rise in far-right and neo-Fascist forces as a result of the neo-liberal policies of their left of centre governments.
We are actively opposing these policies, this future of Europe.
Mr President, when the European Council convenes at Seville, two years and a few months, or four presidential terms, will have passed since the Lisbon Summit and its ambitious decisions to make the Union the world's most competitive economic area by the year 2010.
It is a pleasure for me to praise the political decision-makers in my own country, Finland, for their courage in keeping nuclear energy clearly alongside other forms of development in electrical energy.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to remind you that this - as you are doubtless aware - is the European Parliament.
I am telling you this because in this Parliament we are familiar with the Tampere agenda; we know what was decided there.
I would like to remind you of this because it does not exactly coincide with what you have told us.
The Council has already eliminated one proposal.
A policy for the management of migration flows, a policy for establishing legal immigration channels, clear, transparent, not drowning in a sea of bureaucracy from 15 different legal systems.
The Social Affairs Council has approved the free movement of immigrant workers, which is prevented by immigration laws in 15 Member States.
With regard to the external agenda: in Tampere, we spoke of co-development, the joint management of migration flows, and you told me that in Seville there is a tiny part referring to the threat to third countries.
The fight against illegal immigration, with which my group and I are entirely in agreement, appears in a somewhat esoteric form.
Not only this, but the national governments, over the past two years and eight months, have implemented differing national policies in this area.
You are replacing consensus on solutions with making joint gestures that are incapable of resolving problems.
Do not be surprised that the citizens view the European Union as a problem and not as the solution it should be.
The second observation I would like to make is that account should also be taken of the external dimension that causes immigration, and that the cooperation mechanisms must therefore be strengthened far more than they have been to date.
The need for a solution has never been greater or more promising that it is now; but this dialogue between India and Pakistan will only get started if everyone on the sidelines, the EU, the USA, Russia and the UN, treats both countries on the same footing.
My delegation strongly supports the enlargement process although as part of the institutional reform process designed to bring about our declared goal of a wider, looser Europe and an unwinding of the CAP and CFP.
We also welcome the rapprochement between NATO and Russia which now shares a common agenda with the EU in the fight against global terrorism and the goal of becoming a functioning market economy as a member of WTO and at peace with its EU neighbours.
We strongly support a responsible attitude towards our environment.
However, we do have a number of problems with the resolution, ranging from our opposition to the Treaty of Nice as a prerequisite of enlargement to rejection of a common asylum and immigration policy, which we believe is a prerogative of the Member States, although we strongly favour bilateral cooperation designed to safeguard the integrity of our borders.
We remain deeply sceptical that joint Euro-border guards would work in practice and oppose the principle of the European security and defence policy both as a duplication and as a means of de-coupling Europe from our US partners in NATO.
However, we welcome calls for restraint and de-escalation between India and Pakistan over disputed Kashmir and note encouraging signs that President Musharraf has finally heeded calls to reign in Islamic terrorists which his regime has until very recently supported, terrorists who have recently committed atrocities against Jamu and Kashmiri civilians and even the Indian parliament.
Nevertheless we all wish the summiteers in Seville every success in the challenges that lie ahead.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, I intend to confine my comments to the conflict between India and Pakistan.
Mr President-in-Office, you rightly noted in your speech that this conflict threatens to destabilise and endanger the whole region.
Concern about this immense danger has brought all of us responsible for foreign policy in nearly all the groups to a common position, as expressed in the resolution on Seville.
We call in this resolution for both countries to make every possible effort to deescalate the situation and join in constructive dialogue in a bid to resolve the conflict as quickly as possible.
If he honours the promises made in his speech on 12 January this year, then a huge step will have been made towards resolving the conflict.
The war against terrorism can in fact only be effectively waged on the Pakistani side.
Show him the results of his disastrous negotiation with Morocco and let him imagine what will happen to these European citizens if his proposal goes ahead.
Make a firm commitment against this fisheries proposal during the Seville Council and in that way, in my view, you will have salvaged the Spanish Presidency.
Mr President, the Seville European Council will have to address the issue of the political role of the Union once again.
I regret to say that our great economic influence fails still today to be matched by equally effective political action on the world stage.
The immigration crisis must be tackled responsibly and resolutely, without populism and, above all, without concealing the importance of the issue, as we are all too often wont to do.
We need increasing cooperation to control the Union's borders and the development of a single border policy - it is the Italian Government's proposal which has been accepted and, I believe, selected by Commissioner Vitorino too - but we also need the costs of containing migration flows in Europe to be shared.
Mr President, I also welcome the statement in the Seville declaration concerning India and Pakistan.
It is crucial that Europe takes responsibility and initiative in solving the crisis in the region and does not just leave the peace efforts to the USA and Russia, especially since some of the EU Member States have strong historical links with the region.
I also believe that it is essential for the development of the CFSP that the EU plays a major role.
President Prodi is correct in saying that we have far more opportunity to influence the situation positively before a conflict breaks out than after.
I wholeheartedly endorse moves by both India and Pakistan in the last few days, to seek a peaceful solution to the conflict in Kashmir.
It is vital that diplomatic relations and transport links between the two countries are restored.
However, we need to ensure that fighting over the territory of Kashmir is stopped permanently.
The GDP of the two countries is very low and poverty remains a major problem.
It is essential for the EU to prioritise global security through a poverty reduction programme.
Any action must be economic or humanitarian with positive steps to resolve the high level tensions.
Let us now turn our attention to the people.
It seems to me that the General Affairs Council should be split up as a matter of urgency, particularly because the specialist councils have pulled far too much power towards themselves, and the General Affairs Council seems to have lost its coordinating task.
This would facilitate the coordinating role of the relevant ministers both nationally and in the Council.
As far as the decision-making procedure is concerned, I should like to advise the Council to study the 34 types of decision in order to find out whether improvements can be made in the Council on this score without amending the Treaty.
The Council of Ministers is one of the few bodies in the world that does not do that, and that is really no longer acceptable.
Presidents of the European institutions, ladies and gentlemen, we must first of all express our support for the intense activity that the European Union has been undertaking, together with the United States, Russia and the United Nations, to prevent a war between India and Pakistan.
As Mr Ramón de Miguel stressed, the possibility of escalation can never be excluded in a military conflict.
In order for this to happen, however, we must, specifically, improve the coordination of our efforts in external policy and defence, and make real progress towards having a common diplomatic service.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, the citizens of the European Union have a right to security and they recognise that the European Union has a very decisive role to play here.
They also recognise that internal security is the sine qua non for stability and economic development in the European Union.
President Aznar said that immigration is a key problem and he is right.
I also welcome cooperation with the countries from which immigrants come, help in bringing about political and economic stability, readmission agreements and sanctions against countries which are not prepared to protect their borders and even encourage illegal emigration.
Mr President, I welcome the reference to the Treaty of Nice in Paragraph 6 of the joint resolution.
It is an important confirmation by Parliament that Nice is necessary to facilitate a successful enlargement process.
The Seville European Council is important for the many reasons outlined in our resolutions here today.
However, without the stepping stone of Nice, much of that will be in vain.
I would also urge that this declaration be accepted as a protocol to the next Treaty changes in 2004.
Ireland's failure so far to ratify these ground rules serves only to strengthen the anti-European Union sentiment in the candidate countries, to the detriment of all Europeans.
I am also concerned at the grandstanding by some Member States, which are resisting the budgetary commitments needed for the successful development of the accession countries' economies.
If Seville shows some generosity from our political leaders, our citizens will emulate that generosity in return.
Instead, a diverse coalition was able to exploit unfounded fears, resulting in its rejection and untold harm being inflicted on Ireland's position within the EU and damaging our relations with applicant states.
Additionally, opponents of the Treaty have been strengthened by their electoral success in the recent Irish general election.
The responsibility for securing a successful outcome to the second referendum rests with Ireland's pro-European parties and social partners.
However, the prime responsibility rests with the Irish Government.
Its task is made infinitely more difficult when its main spokesman at the Convention on Europe, former Commissioner Ray MacSharry, has disappointingly made it absolutely clear that his government has drawn a line in the sand in relation to future European integration.
I take this opportunity to warn the Irish Government that it is following a very dangerous path.
Mr President, if any of the guests in the galleries who are with us today had attended the debate that took place in this House in March, they would not understand a thing, because today the benches of the Left have piled on the criticisms of the Barcelona process when in March, on assessing that Council, we voted for an extremely favourable Resolution.
My second point is the issue of immigration.
Immigration was not one of the Spanish Presidency's priorities, but it has noted that it is now one of the citizens' priorities, and it has incorporated it into its agenda.
There is a final question, however, which was mentioned by President Poettering, which I believe to be extremely important and which has not perhaps been discussed so much, which is the delay in enlargement.
Mr President, I will speak very briefly - firstly due to time restrictions and secondly because it would be practically impossible to respond in detail to all the speakers - but I would like to say - in response to all the Members, such as President Poettering, who have said that we will judge the Spanish Presidency on the basis of the outcome of Seville - that the Presidency does not only exist for one Council, but rather from 1 January to 30 June.
By the way, it does not fall to me to explain the conclusions of the Council, that is not my responsibility, but I would urge the Members of this Parliament to read them and, when you have read them, we will speak again.
I would remind you that there was a meeting here in February between President Prodi, President Aznar and President Cox at which the decision was taken.
I am not going to respond, since I believe that the Spanish Presidency has done what it could and that its results are sufficiently satisfactory and above all I believe that we will be able to see the results of the Spanish Presidency on 2 July.
With regard to the other issues in the Council, such as enlargement, this afternoon we will have the opportunity to talk at length.
I would like to say that yesterday we finished the latest ministerial conferences on accession in Luxembourg, although there will be another, at vice-president level, before the end of the month.
The result is that during these six months 87 negotiation chapters have been concluded.
Of 31 chapters, the majority of the Member States have concluded an average of between 26 and 29.
In other words, an average of around two or three chapters will remain for the Danish Presidency to conclude.
The 'road map' has been completed, and the only thing that remains to be agreed on - and which I hope can be agreed before the Seville European Council - is the common position on agriculture.
If they do not agree to what they should agree to, those countries will have to take responsibility for having delayed enlargement and will have to answer to this Parliament, to their respective publics and to the candidate countries.
With regard to the reform of the Council, it is clear that the Council has a dual dimension: executive and legislative.
They also move in the direction of making it more effective; to divide up the General Affairs Council and the External Affairs Council; to reduce the structure of the Council; to establish better methods for preparing European Councils; also reducing the machinery of the European Councils and making them more effective and smaller; to create a system of conclusions which does not involve an interminable debate on insignificant details etc.
There is an issue which I have not mentioned, since it was the subject of a debate yesterday afternoon in this House: the Johannesburg Summit and sustainable development.
We are very aware of the failure of the preparation conference in Bali, the PREPCON, and we want the Seville European Council to offer clear guidelines in order to re-affirm the leadership of the European Union in relation to the big issues for Johannesburg, which are development aid, respect for the environment and sustainable development.
During this Spanish Presidency, the Union has ratified the Kyoto Protocol and obtained a commitment in Monterrey on funding for development which in reality is a commitment on which we have managed to combine the wills of everybody and by means of which the whole of the developed world has committed itself to increasing its level of development aid.
I believe that these two factors can allow us to go to Johannesburg with the conviction that we belong to a group of countries which lead the world on all the great issues of sustainable development.
I have taken good note of the speeches, in particular those which relate to the conflict between India and Pakistan.
What is raising great difficulties for European society is this wave of illegal immigrants which, precisely because they are illegal, are marginalised, living in illegal situations and are victims of exploitation and therefore suffer to an extent which is intolerable in our society.
Therefore, I believe that this issue, like all the issues relating to illegal immigration, is of concern to European society today and it is logical that the Heads of State and Government should deal with all aspects of them.
I do not therefore believe that there are any hidden agendas in relation to asylum and immigration and all the issues to be dealt with at the Seville European Council.
I would just like to stress a few basic points: firstly, I welcome our great consensus on enlargement and I would point out, in this regard, that this is our greatest and most important task for the future; secondly, I am delighted with this debate, which will take us to Seville - Parliament, Commission and Council - with a common line on the interinstitutional agreement and the work on better organisation and better legislation that we have to undertake together.
I want to make it quite clear - and reassure all the Members of Parliament - that none of this will affect the Convention's work in any way.
We have not been treating it as a low priority, but I have to say that we are completely on our own in these international conventions.
And, quite frankly, I want to say before this House that all these summits we have held, which ought to have shown increasingly great attention towards the Developing World, have not yielded the desired results.
Of course, there are contradictions on these issues even in the Union's own policies.
I would remind you of some of the issues which have been mentioned in this House such as Mediterranean policy, the difficulties surrounding the creation of a bank - a Euro-Mediterranean Development Bank - to boost development in this area, and the even greater obstacles encountered in our endeavours to set up a Euro-Mediterranean Foundation for dialogue between cultures, for which some countries were not even prepared to commit EUR 1 million.
We were able to agree on a formula which shows that there can be excellent cooperation between institutions in several interinstitutional fields.
I hope that it will be possible to follow this example when working on other dossiers which are more difficult or equally difficult.
I should just like to add that they have to vote on a Financial Regulation which will be more transparent, so that the rules and procedures contained in that Regulation will be easier to understand and more transparent.
I believe, therefore, that this is a successful result, and I should like to thank all those who took part in this work.
We hope that it will soon be possible to complete the work so as to allow the implementation, for the first time, of the new competences conferred by the Treaty of Amsterdam in matters concerning public health.
The Commission is able to accept Amendments Nos 1, 9, 12, 15, 17, 19, 25, 27 and 28.
The Commission is also able to accept, in part, Amendments Nos 2, 3, 5, 6, 10, 13, 14, 16, 18, 20 and 21.
The Commission is unable, for the reasons indicated by Mr Byrne during yesterday morning's debate, to accept Amendments Nos 4, 7, 8, 11, 22, 23, 24 and 26.
Mr President, I would like to amend the beginning of the amendment, where it reads 'Member States shall report to the Commission on these measures every two years'.
The vote on the calendar followed a formal sitting last time.
With regard to the secret ballot, Rule 136 does not limit the scope of the use of a secret ballot.
What it does require is that in order to use a secret ballot, a signed request must be made by at least one-fifth of the Members of the House, namely 126 Members.
The services have received the signatures of 140 Members requesting a secret ballot.
It is certainly open to Mrs Berès and others to ask the 140 if they wish to withdraw.
I would ask whether the 140 have a spokesman to comment on the question of withdrawal?
Mr President, let me say that we will not withdraw the request for a secret vote for the simple reason that in the past Members have found it difficult on this particular issue to vote according to their conscience and we want everyone to be able to vote according to their conscience on this issue.
I would ask you to take a vote together on Amendments Nos 1 and 73 and ask the House to vote for them.
However, I think that it is important to remember this point.
Mr President, that is not what we agreed on this point in the debates in committee and in the group.
I shall read it out to the rapporteur: This arises because we have agreed with the other institutions two different deadlines for Parliament to object to implementing measures being taken by the Commission.
However, quite recently we successfully negotiated a longer deadline in the context of the Lamfalussy report.
Mr Corbett, does 144 fall in consequence of adopting 142?
I think that, as we are talking about foreign and security policy, we should opt for the diplomatic wording, as contained in Amendments Nos 120 and 174.
Amendment No 74 reads: 'Any Member ...
Rule 159 refers at one point to legislative reports.
Article 160 refers to non-legislative reports, but we should ensure that the same wording is used in both cases because, materially, it makes no difference if a financial statement is drawn up for a legislative or a non-legislative report.
In this respect, having voted on Amendment No 88, there should in fact be no need to vote again here.
This is essentially a highly technical report, which will no doubt be ignored by the press, but it is of enormous importance in terms of the good functioning of the European budget in the future.
I congratulate you once again. . (DE) I voted against the recommendation in the Dell'Alba report and, hence, against the new financial regulation.
Hence, our vote in favour of the report.
The Council's position has been improved by a number of amendments made by the European Parliament in connection with transparency, forwarding the agency's findings to the Member States, the role of experts on the agency's administrative board and combating fraud.
The Mastorakis report is a considerable improvement on the Commission's initial proposal, which is why I shall vote in favour of it. - (FR) Following the shipwreck of the oil tanker 'Erika', the Commission submitted a second set of measures, including the proposed regulation on establishing a European Maritime Safety Agency.
This new agency will provide the Member States and the Commission with the technical and scientific support necessary to enable them to apply Community legislation effectively.
Maritime safety is also becoming a more important political issue within the European Union.
We voted against the Commission's Amendment No 7 and against Amendment No 19 because, while supporting absolutely a system in which blood is donated free of charge and regarding it as shocking that anyone could turn it into merchandise, we believe that employees who absent themselves from work in order to give blood should retain their wages.
It should also be emphasised that each of us has an obligation to contribute to the blood supply on a voluntary basis, as it is essential to maintain these services for all.
That being the case, if products are not available in the EU from a voluntary and non-remunerated supply, we should not prevent products being imported from outside the EU for the protection of human health and the delivery of services to people in need.
We would have voted for it if it had in any way impinged upon the right of the Gibraltar inhabitants to participate in the next European Parliament elections.
The minutes statement that is attached to this report from the UK Government makes it clear that it is the UK Government's sole responsibility to ensure that the legislation is put in place for Gibraltarians to vote in those elections.
There are also very good reasons for indicating in Parliament's legislative resolution the importance of the principle of equality between men and women in order to guarantee a balanced representation of both sexes.
To the extent that this is a simple option, which in any case is already in use in a minority of countries, this provision may be accepted.
The problem is that the five European Parliament elections that have so far taken place since 1979 have not included one particular part of the European Union.
Member States' exclusion of this small territory from the right to vote reflects no credit on them.
Although some progress has been made on this matter since the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in 1999, the matter is still unresolved.
No Council decision on European Parliament voting can be complete without recognition of the Gibraltarians' rights.
For the time being, this new Council decision is obstructing cross-border, proportional representation, with multi-national lists for 10% of the European Parliament seats, something that was requested by the European Parliament in 1998.
One such aspect is the priority 'Global change and ecosystems', given that the fisheries sector was subjected to swingeing budgetary cuts under the Sixth Framework Programme for research, with its budget being reduced from EUR 880 million under the previous programme to only EUR 570 million.
It is equally important, however, that we pay full attention to soil, which is also a component of terrestrial ecosystems and a crucial factor in their sustainable development.
Hence the importance of engaging in research that seeks to provide a better understanding of the functioning of terrestrial and marine ecosystems.
After enlargement, it will be not only Brussels, but also Strasbourg, Luxembourg, Frankfurt, and perhaps another location which will have to be established and promoted in order to meet the needs of the enlarged Europe which we are creating.
Having said that, however, Rule 136(4) lays down a specific procedure for such secret ballots.
The counting of any secret vote is carried out by between two and six tellers, drawn by lot from among the Members.
That means that we have here a solemn procedure, a cumbersome procedure, a procedure which is intended precisely to discourage any inopportune requests for the use of a secret ballot.
We also find that, in the Corbett report on which we have just voted, Rule 136 was not amended.
Therefore the President was wrong not to apply the procedure laid down in Article 4, which is intended precisely to avoid using secret ballots, for tactical reasons, at every opportunity.
Mr Dell'Alba, we are not having a debate on a point of order.
No Mr President, you would have said it yourself, but I am saying it to my excellent fellow Member who is generally always to the point in what he says.
In this precise case, Mr Cox applied the rule.
Nor is it correct to plan the Brussels sessions a year in advance, without knowing whether or not the Strasbourg agenda will be full.
I deplore the fact that the previous French Government did not bring the matter before the Court of Justice when the Strasbourg Friday sessions were omitted in 2000 and 2001, and I hope that the next government will do better. - (FR) Given the low attendance at the Friday morning sittings when they were in force, the question of whether or not to return to five-day periods would seem to be by and large hypocritical.
On the other hand, it is unacceptable that the staff should suffer the consequences of choices made by Members, resulting either in a reduction of their wages or of certain bonuses, or in an increase in their workload.
I voted in favour of both amendments 1 and 3 for the self-evident reasons that Brussels is a far better place to conduct our business economically and efficiently than Strasbourg.
I will always vote to reflect that view and try to end the mindless and expensive perigrinations around Europe that John Major's government imposed on the Parliament at the Edinburgh Summit in 1992. - (FR) The UEN Group and the French delegation of the RPF are opposed to any manoeuvre which would reduce the length of plenary sessions at Strasbourg.
We know perfectly well that a plenary session reduced to four days does not allow us to work properly.
Strasbourg is and must remain the seat of the European Parliament. - (FR) Once again, the anti-Strasbourg lobby is on the rampage, trying to shorten and devalue the Strasbourg sessions and, in the end, to abolish them.
Mr President, I voted for the report but I should like, in particular, to explain the reason for my vote on Amendment No 74.
This amendment sought to prevent Members from presenting more than two explanations of vote per sitting.
I wish to thank the Group of the European Peoples' Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the Greens and the individual Members from all groups who voted against this amendment.
I do not know whether that is the correct term in French, but anyway I wanted to emphasise that, thanks to the efforts of a certain number of Members who have Parliament's interests at heart, a number of amendments which were not in Members' interests have been rejected.
At the same time, parliamentary life will be made more difficult for minorities and Non-attached Members.
Up to now, the latter have been able to express themselves via explanations of vote in writing.
As a result of his efforts, Parliament should now function better and hold more interesting debates.
This is a first and important step in making Parliament a more effective voice for the people in EU decision-making. . (NL) A parliament can only function well if at least the following three conditions are met.
In Parliament, we often state that it must be possible to combine work and family life, and we urge governments to take measures to make that possible.
The same thing must also apply, of course, to Parliament as a place of work.
Thus the group voted deliberately against all the amendments to the Corbett report, which can now be summed up in a single sentence.
Perhaps the cowardly vote which has taken place this morning will be referred to again later, within other bodies. . (NL) On account of the guarded resistance to the forming of small groups, there are fewer groups in the European Parliament than in some national parliaments.
In particular, I am pleased to welcome you here, as today Russia celebrates its Independence Day, in commemoration of the adoption of the declaration on Russia's state sovereignty on 12 June 1990.
Mr President, I think it is well worth restating once again the historic significance, the political importance and the irreversible nature of the process of enlarging the Union.
Having said that, I believe, when it comes to assessing the prospects for the process of enlarging the European Union with a view to the next European Council, that we must begin with the objectives we had set at the start of our Presidency so that we can then consider what we can expect of Seville in light of what has been achieved so far.
You will remember, Mr President, that in the debate we held this morning on the preparation of the Seville Council, I avoided dealing with enlargement issues, specifically so that we could reserve them for this debate, in which we are going to deal solely with those issues.
It stated that the Presidency's objective was to contribute decisively to concluding the negotiations with all the candidate countries which are prepared by the end of the second half of 2002, thereby following up on the conclusions of the previous European Councils of Gothenburg and Laeken.
More specifically, our main task consisted of achieving common positions between the 15 countries on the most complex chapters of the acquis, that is to say, those which fall to us according to the 'road map', those which are most significant from a financial and budgetary point of view.
According to the famous road map agreed in Nice, those chapters - which have fallen to the Spanish Presidency - are agriculture, regional policy and the financial and budgetary provisions, to which we can add another sensitive chapter, which is not sensitive financially, but because of its highly political nature; the issue of the institutions.
Two fundamental principles must continue to inspire and underpin the entire negotiation process and they are that the negotiations should be carried out on the basis of the current acquis and that the financial perspectives approved in Berlin in 1999 will have to determine the upper limits for the accession of the new Member States between now and 2006.
In this negotiation we also tried to prevent any overlapping or interference by the enlargement process with any possible reforms of the common policies, because if we try to make the reform of common policies conditional upon enlargement we will risk creating a delay with regard to the scheduled timescales.
During this six-month period, the Commission has drawn up and implemented an action plan for each of the candidate countries and will present a report in this regard in Seville.
Furthermore, a group drawing up the Accession Treaty was scheduled to be set up during the Presidency, and it began its work in March.
We do not therefore have much time if we want to achieve our objective in 2004, especially in order to have everything ratified so that all the candidate countries can participate as full members in the elections to the European Parliament.
Therefore, we had that purpose - which, incidentally, we have fulfilled - and, as has been the case with previous presidencies, the Spanish Presidency has also paid particular attention to four specific cases, because it seems as if the ten countries designated for the first wave are the sole object of our enthusiasm, which is not true.
We must pay attention to Bulgaria and Romania, two countries which have made less progress and to which we have to lend specific support in order to open as many negotiation chapters as possible, and we also wanted in some way to contribute to the efforts to find a definitive peaceful solution to the issue of Cyprus.
I am pleased to tell you, Mr President, that, with the invaluable help of the Commission - and I would like to pay homage publicly to Commissioner Verheugen, who is in charge of enlargement, who has been truly instrumental in all the progress we have made - the progress made during the Spanish Presidency can be summed up as follows: the Council, in its various guises, has begun to examine the notes presented by the Commission on 30 January on the general financial framework and agriculture, on which there was a clear lack of consensus.
We are trying to promote a compromise formula because we understand the reasoning of the four countries which are blocking the common position, but we also believe those countries must understand that, in agriculture, there are certain fundamental principles relating to respect for the acquis, respect for equality between the member countries and the candidate countries and above all the fact that the 'road map' cannot be delayed.
We are making efforts, we held a General Affairs Council on Monday, we are dealing with this issue today in Coreper; there will be another extraordinary Coreper on Friday; we are going to deal with the issue again at the General Affairs Council on the 17 June and, if necessary, we will have to take it to the European Council.
The committee drawing up the Treaty, which I mentioned earlier, has been working since 13 March on the technical adaptations and the legal details of the commitments agreed so far during the negotiations.
The most significant element was the adoption of a programme of meetings of the eight sub-committees charged with carrying out the detailed 'pre-screening' of its legislation, in accordance with the Laeken mandate.
The European Union has been insisting on the need to intensify the internal political reforms with a view to full compliance with the Copenhagen criteria.
Ankara is reiterating its desire to establish in December a date for the start of accession negotiations, but clearly, however much good will it may have, the European Council cannot set dates for the start of negotiations until the Copenhagen criteria have been fully complied with.
This is not a case of wishful thinking, but it is an exercise that consists of truly applying the principles which all the institutions are attached to: the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament.
With regard to Cyprus, the ordinary negotiations have continued normally; I must say that Cyprus is an excellent candidate, the southern part of Cyprus, the Republic of Cyprus, is certainly the candidate for whom the greatest number of negotiation chapters are concluded and which has made the most progress in the negotiation.
I therefore believe we have done everything we can to assist the process and we have supported Álvaro de Soto, the representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in every way possible.
We believe that things have gone well, but we have sent them a very clear message: we know that the objective of June which they had proposed and which the Secretary-General had confirmed has not been complied with, but we have told them that we cannot wait forever and that we need a clear political signal and that, before 24 October, when the Brussels European Council of the Danish Presidency takes place, the Union needs to see this agreement between the two parties, in order to include the whole issue of Northern Cyprus in the mainstream of the negotiations.
We have seen, for the first time, a Council with 25 Members and furthermore within a concrete context that affects all of us and affects them, that is to say the Lisbon process.
Finally, I wanted to refer to the bilateral technical cooperation and assistance which has been carried out and intensified by the Member States with the candidate countries in order to prepare the latter for the application of the Community acquis.
Not much is said about this, but we must bear in mind that the progress made, in all the programmes the Commission has implemented, essentially in the twinning programme - which is an extremely important programme, which is really worthy of a debate in this Parliament at some point; and in the ISPA and Sapard programmes there has been spectacular progress both in terms of the Union's cooperation with these countries, and in terms of the bilateral cooperation of the candidate countries.
We have fulfilled the road map and this has allowed the Commission and the Council to bring all 30 chapters with the first ten Laeken countries to the table; the negotiations have entered the final straight.
As I have said, we have now begun to draw up the Accession Treaty and it can now enter a final drawing-up process following the Copenhagen European Council.
I do not believe that a fourth period will be necessary, because its drawing-up is now at an advanced stage.
The Council will refer to the adoption of common positions both on those chapters pending from previous Presidencies and on those which are more complex in terms of their budgetary implications.
We shall reiterate the general principle that any solutions must conform to the current acquis and the Berlin financial framework.
There will be an assessment of the report to be presented by the Commission on the development of its action plans for the administrative and judicial strengthening of the candidate countries with a view to effective application of the acquis.
With regard to Turkey, the European Union should encourage the Ankara Government to intensify its reform efforts and express its conviction that that would help to consolidate its accession ambitions.
Furthermore, the Council will encourage Turkey to use its influence to promote a speedy solution to the issue of Cyprus.
Of course the European Union, as stated by the Commission, which has set aside additional funds, has committed itself to contributing to the economic development of the northern part of the island, if the negotiations bear fruit.
Apart from dealing with all these issues, I believe that the European Council must now begin to discuss the new 'road map', the political one.
Mr President, honourable Members, I welcome today's debate on enlargement as an opportunity to send out a clear message in the run up to the European Council in Seville.
I have referred on several occasions to the period from 2002 to 2004 as a window of opportunity.
A chill has set in, the sceptics agitating against Europe in general and enlargement in particular are becoming more vociferous, feeding on uncertainties, fears and prejudice.
My view is that we should join forces to convince the citizens of Europe of the historic need for enlargement and allay their concerns.
The Europe of the past has left a trail of deep wounds and scars behind it.
The Spanish Presidency has performed exceedingly well and I should like to take this opportunity to thank the Spanish Presidency and Foreign Minister Josep Piqué and my old friend Ramón de Miguel for an unbelievably ambitious presidency.
The message which came out of Luxembourg last Monday has triggered insecurity in the candidate countries.
The first is that we cannot conclude enlargement negotiations because we do not know what the financial impact will be post 2006.
The second thing I want to say is that the argument that direct agricultural payments - leaving aside for the moment whether you like them or not - are not a part of Community law, is one that really cannot be taken seriously.
Honourable Members, 14 technical negotiating chapters have yet to be closed for the first ten countries we hope to sign up in Copenhagen.
I am pleased to report that we managed to resolve one of the most difficult and perhaps most important issues in the entire process at this week's accession conference, namely the question of the closure of the Ignalina nuclear power station in Lithuania.
The Commission will submit its appraisal of the situation in October, together with its recommendations as to which candidate countries we should be able to sign up by the end of the year, shortly before the European Council in Brussels.
At the same time, we should also have clarified the financial framework and all the related issues by the time the European Council meets in Brussels.
Once this sum has been set, dividing it up between the individual candidate countries and individual policy areas will be more or less a purely mathematical exercise, thanks to the excellent preparatory work carried out under the Spanish Presidency.
Secondly, and this is closely related to agreement on the overall budget, we need to consider the configuration and size of the budget mechanism already decided in principle under the Spanish Presidency.
Thirdly, we must be prepared for individual issues in the agricultural chapter - I am thinking in particular of quotas and direct income support here - to remain on the table right through to the end.
But I should like to take this opportunity to state quite clearly that the conclusions of the European Council meetings in Gothenburg and Laeken cannot be interpreted to mean that the European Union will not agree on its common standpoints until Copenhagen; the conclusions of Gothenburg and Laeken can only be interpreted to mean that actual negotiations with the candidate countries will be completed in Copenhagen, so that, as the European Parliament hoped, they can accede in time to take part in the European elections in 2004.
Mr Ramón de Miguel has already referred to Bulgaria and Romania on behalf of the Spanish Presidency.
Both countries still need more time to meet the accession criteria.
In most candidate countries, the cause of these difficulties is rooted in their past and in the difficult transformation process.
Last year, the Commission proposed mobilising additional funds and announced action plans in order to provide better support for candidates.
A report on the action plans on administrative and judicial capacities, adopted by the Commission on 5 June, will be tabled at the European Council in Seville.
May I also say at this point, however, that the report also clearly states what complex and differentiated instruments for analysis, verification and control of administrative developments and legal practice have been developed in the candidate countries.
I think I can also say that never before has a future Member State been better prepared for its new role.
If we keep on working here, and the Commission has proposed that we do so to accession and beyond, it will have lasting effects which may even act as an incentive in the present-day EU.
I know that the Commission reports on preparations by candidates, on technical assistance, on institution building, on twinning, on monitoring and control instruments etc.
The point is, will the countries of central and eastern Europe be able to catch up as Ireland has done.
Nor must we lose sight of the fact on our way to Copenhagen that enlargement will bring important partners in eastern Europe closer to home.
However the results of the last EU-Russia Summit did not only fill me with joy, mainly because discussions in Moscow on Kaliningrad were confined to the overland transit problem, a question which concerns not just the EU, but Lithuania and Poland also.
But I will say that the real problem of the geographical location of Kaliningrad is how the European Union and Russia can join forces to ensure that the situation in Kaliningrad improves and the area can profit significantly in the long term from the development of its neighbours.
We must put our house in order, whether this is achieved through the ratification of the Treaty of Nice or by other means.
Whether or not it involves a common position in the Council on agricultural policy, budgetary issues or institutional issues, we have an obligation in this regard.
These can only be formulated in a political process which involves the future Member States; they cannot be a condition for accession.
We also recognise that they are in a position to achieve the smooth functioning of the internal market, fulfil the political criteria and achieve legislative compliance with the acquis communautaire at the same time.
On these issues, too, no political discounts can be granted.
We attach priority to compliance with the Schengen criteria, because it is also important to make clear to our own citizens that no additional insecurity is being created here.
Mr President, Commissioner, I support your positions on this issue wholeheartedly, for this is a matter of historical significance.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Council for the diligent way it has pursued this complicated dossier and most especially Commissioner Verheugen and his staff for the phenomenal amount of work they have done on monitoring the progress that has been achieved in the candidate countries.
On 6 July 2002 a very famous world sporting event will start.
The message from my group is very clear, we must keep following that road map.
My esteemed colleague, Klaus Hänsch, first raised in this House the date of 2004 as the date for the completion of the first new accession and we must stick to that date.
Do not try and negotiate, or re-negotiate, the common agricultural policy in the space of two or three months to get us to October and the Brussels Summit.
In 1990, Helmut Kohl and François Mitterand made a promise that we would have the enlargement of the European Union completed by the year 2000.
That parliamentarians from Bulgaria and Romania are here today is a welcome reminder that we are negotiating enlargement with 12 applicant states, even if the timescales for accession may differ a little.
We must recognise that the applicant states have worked hard in recent years to reform their economies and consolidate democracy in order to join the Union.
What is important to the health of a country is the direction in which its face is set and the screening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms must be an ongoing process, part of a wider scrutiny of all Member States - old and new - in a European Union with the Charter of Fundamental Rights at its heart.
We are constrained to live within Berlin's limits, but if a deal is postponed until autumn - as some propose - this would jeopardise the prospect of admitting new Member States in time for the European Parliament elections in 2004.
It is exciting, it is fantastic, but this window of opportunity also implies a need to carry out reforms.
That does not mean that we should spend less money.
We had a financial framework in Berlin, and we reduced it.
We could invest in the countries which are applying for accession, but we have not done so, because of the selfishness of the rich countries of the European Union such as Germany, France or Spain.
Mr President, EU enlargement is entering its crucial phase.
The reports before us and the speeches by Members do not draw a veil over the unresolved issues, but do endorse the candidate countries' accession.
Yet anyone who assumes that, with the exception of agricultural policy, the process of enlarging the EU by up to ten states has been resolved is naïve, in my view.
There is very limited willingness to show solidarity, and in many areas, the Commission's work is much too superficial and bureaucratic to do justice to the new demands of integration.
In any case, respect for the Copenhagen criteria and assimilation of the Community acquis - which, however, we feel should be interpreted in general terms - are compulsory.
Certainly, a sure response needs to be given at least with regard to the size of the Structural Funds commitments that will be set aside for them in the short- and long-term future, not least to give them time to find responses to the respective problems of social and economic cohesion which are emerging in some of those countries and develop an effective social and employment policy and a code of good practice for undertakings.
However, when a common position is adopted on the agricultural chapter, a fair prospect is required for both the candidate countries and the current net payers.
Mr President, the theory of enlargement should naturally be put into practice, for agriculture and in other areas, by the application of identical game rules in both old and new Member States, whilst at the same time managing the necessary transitions in order to avoid, in both old and new Member States, the destabilising consequences of the practical implementation of this historic political imperative.
This opening up has to be conducted industry by industry and country by country, as and when producers are in a position to place on the market products which meet the same quality and safety criteria as those that we already impose on our own producers.
The second issue is that of the first pillar of the CAP, in other words market support and compensatory aid.
The Commission is proposing a totally uniform transitional period for all countries, as far as the timetable and implementing rules are concerned, which would result, first of all, in an extremely brutal and painful restructuring operation for those countries which have a large number of agricultural holdings.
It seems to us, on the contrary, that this question should be answered on a country-by-country basis, taking into account the special situation and specific structure of farming in each country, as well as the social impact of their suddenly finding themselves in the CAP and the speed which is desirable, desired and bearable for each country's farming sector.
To tackle this problem solely from an accounting point of view, which is what certain Member States, such as Germany and the Netherlands, tend to do at present, shows a narrowness of approach which is dangerous to the future of the Union, because these are essential issues for the future and the equilibrium of societies in the applicant countries.
That means that the representatives of the two communities on the island will have to agree on a constitutional formula which will enable the new Member State to participate in the decision-making process and to assume all its obligations under Community law.
Only a federal model, in other words the model which is recommended in the United Nations Security Council Resolutions, fulfils this objective.
Jean Monnet said that in order to change the facts of a problem it was enough to change its framework.
If not, the Republic of Cyprus would be admitted by the European Council of Copenhagen on the same terms as the other candidate countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since time is short, I should like to focus on just one issue which has been mentioned several times already today, namely the presidential decrees.
The fall of the Berlin Wall and the reunification of Europe constitute the most important issue in my political work.
The Estonian economy has produced fantastic results, and 4.5% growth is anticipated this year.
During the Swedish Presidency, the Social Democratic Government spoke proudly of its timetable for enlargement.
That is why it is disgraceful that Sweden is now putting the timetable at risk and making enlargement conditional upon agricultural policy.
There can be nothing more important than that the EU honour its pledges and that the last chapter in the reunification of Europe be written in Copenhagen this autumn.
Mr President, this report represents a politically significant boost by the European Parliament to the enlargement process.
It is also a sign of encouragement at this crucial time when the Commission, the Council and the Member States, as well as the candidate countries, are preparing to open negotiations on the chapters which are most complex and which have the greatest budgetary implications.
We are in no doubt that it was similar reasons that led some of the current Member States to call for a thorough restructuring of the CAP as a prerequisite for reaching a common EU starting position for negotiations on the agricultural chapter.
The planning stage is over.
Mr President, the most significant landmark in Hungary's current political situation has undoubtedly been the legislative elections held in April.
In a coalition with the Liberal Party, the Socialist Party achieved a victory which gave it 198 seats in Parliament, as opposed to the 188 won by the party of the previous government.
Nevertheless, and bearing in mind the differences of opinion between the previous government and the election-winners on a whole range of issues, such as the Status Law, social dialogue and public procurement for example, the possibility of changes in Hungary's position on the accession process cannot be excluded, although I do not believe that they will jeopardise this process.
From the economic point of view, Hungary is maintaining a viable market economy and its economic performance is one of the best in the region.
Furthermore, Hungary has to date closed 24 chapters and has made more progress in negotiations than almost any other candidate country.
It is this progress, of which I have given only a brief overview, and the trend that it reveals, which give us continuing grounds for optimism that the negotiations for Hungary's accession to the European Union will be concluded within the deadline that has been set and, consequently, that we will see its 22 Members in this House for the next legislature in 2004.
Mr President, the Member States really do seem to have forgotten that enlargement is a continuation of the historic project which began with the fall of the Berlin Wall.
I therefore call on all the democratic movements here in this House, in the Member States and in the candidate countries to ensure that this major and historic project, which so many people in Europe have worked so hard to achieve, does not fall into the hands of election propagandists.
I have just had an opportunity to see for myself how difficult it was to fulfil the Copenhagen criteria item by item in Latvia.
It is essential that this takes place in parallel to, and does not delay, accession.
After all, it was the prospect of enlargement and accession to the European Union which gave the crucial impetus to the reform movements in Europe and encouraged them to embark on a course towards a democratic Europe.
I would certainly recommend that Latvia's accession be planned for the end of 2002, for I am convinced that this country can resolve its remaining problems.
Mr President, Mr de Miguel, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having provisionally closed 22 chapters in the negotiation statistics - although this cannot be taken as the sole criterion - Malta has lost a little of its dynamism.
I hope that Malta's accession process will speed up again in the coming months, and that when the Commission's report is presented on 16 October 2002, Malta will be included as one of the candidates for the first round of accessions.
I welcome the fact that the European Parliament is pointing out that discriminatory provisions which conflict with the acquis communautaire must be abolished before accession to the European Union, and I hope that after the elections in the Czech Republic, this issue can be resolved in an objective way.
Mr President, Poland has made great progress in its journey back to Europe, at the cost of great sacrifice and the risk of unpopularity on the part of its governments, which have determinedly pursued this objective.
I regret to say that, in Poland, as in the other candidate countries, accepting compromises with Brussels, giving the impression of yielding ground, is seen as extremely negative, and there is now a price to pay for those who do so.
Those who are familiar with the history of Poland know what corridors mean for that country.
I trust that the debate currently taking place in Poland on these two key institutions of any democracy will not result in decisions which mar the esteem in which this country is held in the world.
They are not new and concern in many cases other candidate countries too.
Also, an effective regional policy should be developed as a means of fighting excessive levels of unemployment in that country.
It is precisely the advocates of enlargement, to which, fortunately, also the large majority of this Parliament belongs, who have the responsibility of carefully testing the acceding countries at the end of the journey, on the basis of the criteria formulated in the past.
In September, parliamentary elections will be held in Slovakia and there is already a great deal of speculation about the outcome.
It appears that the general issues have already been dealt with and I would therefore like, if I may, just to focus on Slovenia.
In some sectors, the efforts are yielding the desired results, but there are delays in others.
The European Union has been urging Slovenia to speed up the procedures and make good the delays in this field for years now.
Mr President, as a general point I would first say what a pity it is that we did not use this great opportunity of enlargement to introduce a lighter, less integrative approach to European cooperation, which would be less burdensome to all concerned.
Instead we have the enormous weight of the imposed acquis, which grows by the day and significant elements of which are ignored even by current Member States, let alone the candidate states.
I would also hope that the enlargement report before this House will continue to make reference to all 13 candidates for accession.
We now need to translate these strategies into more effective action which produces tangible results so that Bulgaria will be in a position rapidly to close all the negotiating chapters with a view to accession in about 2007 or 2008.
Such a positive outlook, backed up by what must be well targeted, well managed European Union assistance, would help sustain support for modernising governments and reformed public institutions in Bulgaria - support which is frail at the moment.
The government's strong fight against corruption is hampered by lack of financial, human and material resources, with the inevitable knock-on effect of a low absorption rate of EU funds.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from the Committee on Budgets' point of view, we want to send out two signals to the Council, the Commission, the European public and the accession countries today.
Firstly, we want to make clear our desire to put the budgetary conditions in place so that enlargement can go ahead in 2004, involving up to ten candidate countries.
Secondly, we want to make it very clear to the Commission and the Council that according to Paragraph 25 of the Interinstitutional Agreement and on the basis of Article 272, the adjustment of the financial perspective is undertaken on the proposal of the Commission together with Parliament and Council, namely with a qualified majority in the Council and, in Parliament, a majority of its Members and three-fifths of the votes cast.
The original financial perspective contains an indicative financial framework, initially for six new countries from 2002.
However, this framework should serve as a basis for the negotiations, so that the decisions taken in Berlin, Agenda 2000 and the acquis communautaire might be adhered to.
Based on the plenary's decisions of September 2001, we greatly welcome the approach involving progressive integration in agricultural and structural policy, simply taking account of the pre-accession experience, budget discipline, and WTO rules, but also the candidate countries' own domestic situations.
Then there is the issue of introducing a comprehensive reform of the structural fund mechanisms due to the experience of absorption, the simplification of procedures, greater consideration of local conditions - all this is necessary.
The simplified model of direct payments in agriculture, and the concept of special financing arrangements via a Fund which is defined and managed separately from the Cohesion Fund, offering very favourable conditions to the new Member States, is the right approach.
Finally, I should like to mention one very important point.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming enlargement which is the subject of our debate today naturally poses a unique challenge to the European Union.
The number of Member States will virtually double.
These border regions need our solidarity.
These regions have been on the absolute periphery for decades; indeed, from our perspective, they are almost at the edge of the world.
Incidentally, it is also important to stress that we are focussing on our border regions very late in the day, and that the financial resources available are completely inadequate.
They are only of limited benefit to the border regions.
Of course, the border regions are now moving to the heart of Europe, and this naturally offers them great opportunities for the future.
Let us send out a signal and endorse this report by a broad majority in this House.
As was pointed out, again by the Commission, with regard to the rates of implementation of the Structural Funds objectives overall, there were delays similar to those recorded in 1994.
Clearly, these data induce us to raise the purely rhetorical question of whether the new programming rules really make it possible to ensure transparency of budget management and avoid liquidity bottlenecks.
We were surprised to learn that, at the end of 2000, 11 years after the closure of commitments and nine years after the final date for making payments, as many as 35 programmes from before 1989 were still open.
Moreover, there were as many as 73 operating programmes from the 1989-1993 period still open too.
We note that the Commission committed approximately one third of the funds earmarked for 2000 during the first year of programming and we wish to see implementation stepped up considerably so as to guarantee full use of these resources, which are vital to the balanced development of the candidate countries.
Lastly, I am absolutely astounded that, in a debate on enlargement which includes a discussion on Hungary, not one Member has mentioned that, on 7 September 2001, Hungary appeared on the updated list of countries and territories which were not cooperating with the FATF, the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering, a group which is part of the OECD, which is a body to which the European Union itself belongs.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the Sapard report in this related debate, I would like to say a few words about the enlargement negotiations.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development wholeheartedly supports the Commission's line in the agriculture negotiations with the accession candidates.
We feel that this is a very important point.
The Commission is not happy either since the Sapard funds have not been used in the way we wanted.
To unify Europe and finally incorporate the countries of central Eastern Europe into the European Union is the historic challenge of our time.
Agricultural policy is a knotty problem in the accession negotiations.
The EU cannot reasonably meet all the wishes of the candidate countries.
The President-in-Office of the Council is right in saying that enlargement is one thing and agricultural policy another.
Unfortunately, Mr Brok's otherwise very important report does not include any of our proposals on the legal and social position of women in the candidate countries and, as chairman of the Committee on Women's Rights, I should like to express my committee's acute displeasure to the House.
In its opinion, our committee stressed that adopting the acquis communautaire on equal opportunities for men and women is a sine qua non to accession because this is a basic human rights issue.
Institution building and strengthening institutional and administrative capacities in this area are basic prerequisites to full application of the European acquis.
In other words, the candidate countries must ensure that the acquis on equal opportunities for men and women is applied fully and effectively before they accede.
As you know, the acquis communautaire on equal opportunities consists of nine directives on equal pay, equal treatment in the workplace, health and safety, work for pregnant women, parental leave, the burden of proof in cases of discrimination and equal treatment under social policy.
The Committee on Women's Rights has of course taken account of progress already made by the candidate countries and has identified areas in which further improvement is needed.
In addition, problems persist in certain candidate countries as far as children are concerned, as a direct consequence of weaknesses in social protection systems.
There is a serious democratic deficit in this sector in all the candidate countries.
This being so, we call on the Commission to tell us what has been achieved in the candidate countries as regards adopting the social acquis communautaire on equal opportunities.
The Liberal Group is taking the asylum obligations arising from the Geneva Convention very seriously.
I would thank Commissioner Verheugen for his very committed speech.
The evaluation of progress and of shortcomings in the candidate countries has always been clear and detailed.
As the Copenhagen doctrine established, in the field of freedom, democracy and human rights there can be no exceptions, transition periods or à la carte Europe.
Then there is the idea that in the case of the applicant countries we should regard their economic capacity with a certain degree of flexibility, taking into account the need to create in those countries the conditions for continuous and sustainable economic growth.
Then there is our concern, again, about the campaign against money laundering and tax havens, which in our view constitutes a real preliminary condition for accession, as other speakers before me have already pointed out.
In addition there is the need to encourage these countries to have more regional cooperation, and finally there is the idea that the accession of these countries to the Union will make it easier for them to achieve the objectives pursued by the European Union.
Madam President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is very pleased that the chapters on the internal market and the related chapters have already been negotiated successfully.
However, we are still concerned about the shortcomings in the administrative and judicial systems in the future Member States.
We need fair competition, also in the enlarged internal market.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my task was to draft a horizontal report on industry, external trade, research and energy for twelve candidate countries.
The first point is the high level of unemployment in a number of the candidate countries.
In Poland, for example, the employment figure is 19% and is not showing any signs of abating.
The candidate countries are enjoying strong economic growth and will be able to accommodate their own citizens.
The average monthly income in the enlargement countries is rising sharply, and exports from our countries to them is rising more steeply than the import from those countries.
Moreover, all the figures bear out that immigration to the European Union is restricted.
Madam President, when you stand in a derelict asbestos factory in Poland and taste it on your tongue, when you hear a debate in Malta about how they dispose of waste on a small island made of hard rock, and when you stand in a yard in Bulgaria and see where the offenders with mental disorders are expected to exercise for one hour a day, you see some of the challenges that some of our European family have to meet as they seek to join the European Union and adopt our acquis.
Our Committee on the Environment's enlargement reports have highlighted concerns on nuclear safety, stocks of obsolete pesticides, food and feed safety, habitats and wild bird protection and human rights in mental health systems.
The fisheries chapter has already been closed with all candidates, albeit with some restrictions in the case of Poland and Malta.
I wonder whether in their summing-up replies both Minister de Miguel and Commissioner Verheugen might refer to progress, as far as public opinion is concerned, and any further initiatives they have in mind.
We all pay lip service to this - bearing in mind the referenda - but much greater practical application is required, in particular from the Member States, not simply from the institutions of the European Union itself.
Enlargement is the most exciting, difficult political challenge of this century and cannot just be addressed from an accounting perspective.
We need more political ambition and a less parochial, more global vision of politics.
Only political stature can make us credible interlocutors in the western world as difficult processes of cultural, economic and, above all, judicial integration are developed.
Madam President, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy has examined the financial framework 2004-2006 for accession negotiations proposed by the Commission and considers that, generally speaking, the Commission proposal is a balanced and realistic proposal.
We have already, on other occasions, requested increasingly careful monitoring of the committed resources on the part of the Commission, and this is becoming still more urgent and pressing if we consider that prolonging access to the Cohesion Fund in this way to improve implementation of structural measures in the candidate countries must be seen as a completely new strategy and that it therefore cannot be understood to be a permanent facility.
Everywhere, especially in my country, the border regions are marked by extremely high unemployment and dying villages and towns.
The Commission will have to try to answer this question during the current debate on the common fisheries policy.
Madam President, as many colleagues have pointed out, the pace of enlargement varies from country to country and month by month.
Clearly support under the Sapard scheme is of vital importance in assisting that process.
Expectations in those countries are universally high.
The internal cohesion between the richest and poorest regions and countries must be maintained, regardless of the fact that ten countries about to enter are clearly poorer.
I believe that more of the Community budget should be spent and it should be better spent, in that order, and we must continue to try to ensure that executing the Community budget is not an obstacle course.
We must simplify the procedures and trust in the executors.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the verge of a really historic round of accessions.
At the same time, a further southwards expansion will enrich the European Union with two beautiful and culturally valuable island states, Malta and Cyprus.
The fact that direct negotiations are now taking place for the first time in many years shows that the accession process is having the catalytic effect we hoped for.
I also hope that Turkey, which is also a candidate country, understands that a solution for Cyprus is very much in Turkey's interest and that Denktash cannot insist on a two state model.
Extremist parties are exploiting enlargement in their policies and playing upon people's fear of the unknown.
A number of domestic problems will still remain following membership, for there is a life after the accession date too.
But other minorities too often experience a lack of appreciation and recognition of their identities.
Finally, a whole host of small countries will be joining after the accession, and this will place the need for a new view of peoples without a state and regional participation in a new light.
Madam President, it was decided in Nice that accession negotiations must be completed by the end of the year so that, if required, the necessary codetermination rights can be exercised in the national parliaments in the course of 2003.
In the complex documentation accompanying accession negotiations, the chapters on agriculture, finance and regional policy in particular have attracted a lot of public interest.
The present proposal to phase in direct aids to farmers by 2013 cannot be the last word.
The European reference yield, only 2.96 in Poland's case for example, used as the basis for payment of direct aid is more than just an ugly detail.
All involved must intensify their efforts, but they need the close attention of the European Union and the nation states.
The current programme of economic development for the border regions, amounting to EUR 245 million, is not enough.
But the EU budget is not under such pressure.
If the Council Presidency under Spanish Chairmanship is unable to agree a final figure for direct agricultural aids - because of impending elections as, alas, in Germany - then the last few months will be spent trying to catch up, and in my opinion there will only be losers.
Madam President, I shall deal with two main points in this question of enlargement.
Firstly, I should like put on the record of this House that the Treaty of Nice needs to be adopted by all existing Member States of the European Union to facilitate the enlargement of the European Union by ten countries, which we hope to see in the not too distant future.
I would hate anyone to misunderstand or misinterpret the decision of the Irish electorate not to approve the Treaty of Nice, because the Irish population in general, even those who oppose the adoption of the Treaty of Nice, is in favour of enlargement.
My last point is that, in our negotiations with the accession countries, we should not stand in the way of their progress towards the adoption of the acquis communautaire.
When these countries join the European Union they will bring a new impetus, a new ideology, and a new belief in the vision the founding fathers of the European Union had of a Europe of peace, prosperity, progress and respect for Europe's diversity.
We want to integrate countries in which agriculture and exports are very important into the European Union, even though they have not to date adopted the Community acquis.
The candidate countries are afraid that the process of modernising agriculture might destabilise the rural economy.
Farmers in the Member States cannot agree to seeing their products rivalled by products that do not comply with the same health or environmental requirements.
Therefore, let us be sensible and take the time to create the conditions necessary for successful accession.
By acting hastily, as is being proposed, we could ruin agriculture in both the Member States and the candidate countries.
I think it is important, however, to emphasise item 20, which reminds the Commission of the need to develop other activities in rural areas.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is beyond question: there is no doubt as to the historic necessity of enlargement.
Firstly, there are no definite plans in place for financing enlargement beyond 2006.
Anyone who plays down this conflict of values does Europe a disservice.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion there is still a great need for information about eastward enlargement in the EU Member States.
That is a key question for most of the candidate countries and it is crucial because in the countries of central and eastern Europe agriculture accounts for a larger proportion of national income than the EU average.
The accession of ten countries in 2004 will increase the agricultural area by 29% and the number of agricultural holdings by 74%.
In my opinion, the countries of central and eastern Europe will and must press ahead with changing the structure of their agriculture.
Environmental concerns and alternative jobs in rural areas must be funded from the second pillar of the common agricultural policy.
The decision taken by the Lithuanian Government in relation to the closure of the Ignalina power station is an extremely brave one, as it is not in accordance with general public opinion in Lithuania, and illustrates just how determined the Lithuanians are to fulfil the EU entry requirements.
We must not allow that timetable to be eroded.
If we slow down, some of the accession countries - for example, Hungary - will turn elsewhere, perhaps towards the United States rather than the European Union.
As Commissioner Verheugen quite rightly said: we must take advantage of this window of opportunity before it is closed.
Or, as the late, great Elvis Presley said: "It's now or never, ....
Each country must be judged on its own merit and keep to the criteria, in particular in relation to implementation and administrative capacity.
The Czech Republic needs to reassure us that competition policy will be in line with EU competition policy and that public administration will be reformed.
Latvia has to make serious advances in the reform of its judicial system and in dealing with corruption.
I welcome Commissioner Verheugen's plans in relation to Bulgaria and Romania, but we must also send out a message to Romania that it has to get its act together, otherwise it will seriously fall behind schedule.
We should stop talking about the problems of enlargement and remind people that enlargement is a solution to many of those problems.
Enlargement is a huge political and historical event but it is also the biggest objective regarding development cooperation the Member States have ever committed themselves to.
The Commission's proposals on financing enlargement are realistic and even rather shrewd.
One objection, for example, is that agricultural reform should be complete before we can enlarge.
The common agricultural policy must be reformed.
The European Parliament should continue to demand this, without any concessions.
First, enlargement is in fact an historical venture, but for a new Europe, not so that certain factions can rewrite post-war history.
With the benefit of hindsight we have not in the context of world trade provided the degree of protection necessary for our farmers from the obvious unfair competition and market manipulation by our competitors.
As demonstrated during the foot-and-mouth crisis in our country, agriculture is an integral part of the rural economy.
Support one part without taking into account the needs of the other and you can create damaging distortions, which is exactly what has happened.
Madam President, incoming members need to realise that their membership of the EU will not remove the great difficulties they already have in their agriculture industries.
Farmers already in the EU are facing terrifying difficulties.
Milk prices have plummeted to 14.5 pence per litre, a loss of 4 pence per litre for all milk producers.
Madam President, I am delivering an opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Böge report, and this gives me a further opportunity to speak about the transfer of direct payments.
We are therefore looking to the Commission to make proposals towards reform in the near future, which, as Mr Cohn-Bendit has said, will make enlargement both possible and stable.
Commissioner Fischler, I am referring here once again - as I think Mr Görlach has already done - to the 'bottom-up' approach and to our Sapard programme in Leader form, where the Commission has so far stubbornly refused to underpin this with legislation.
We say it is urgently necessary that civil forces in the candidate countries should also be involved in the work of these projects so that people will feel happier about the European Union and we can lean back rather more contentedly and calmly when they come to vote on it.
Madam President, first I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their overall presentation of progress in negotiations with the candidate countries.
In its opinion, the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities identifies the problems which women face today and the policies which need to be applied in order to wipe out discrimination in all sectors, so that more women are involved in shaping and making decisions on social, political and economic life.
Madam President, I want to highlight Paragraph 26 of Mr Olsson's report on agriculture and enlargement.
Madam President, what is happening with the agriculture dossier in the negotiations for accession is a clear example of the insistence on pursuing a process of enlargement on the basis of a Community financial framework that does not guarantee the principle of economic and social cohesion, given that the financial framework of Agenda 2000 was only designed for six candidates - whereas there are now ten - with a per capita income of around 40% of the European Union average.
The consequences of this situation would be an increase in unemployment and poverty - something we cannot accept.
Rural development and the protection of a high-quality farm production system require a revision of the CAP and not the renationalisation of its costs, which would harm not only the farmers of those countries but also the farmers of countries such as Portugal, whose system of farming is more vulnerable.
Madam President, the financial and budgetary consequences of enlargement must be debated in the light of the fact that we are facing a moral imperative and an inalienable political priority, because this project of living together goes beyond the fields of business and finance.
The difficulties do not come from the Spanish Presidency or from the Commission or from this Parliament.
As has been pointed out, the countries that put obstacles in the way of a consensus to adopt a common position will have to explain why enlargement should take place not according to the established timetable but at a speed dictated by their interests.
At these times, we must clear away doubts and help change a negative attitude, which is strongest in those countries which, right now, are blocking agreement in the chapter on agriculture and calling into question direct aids for agriculture, either through attempting to clear the financial horizon beyond 2006 or by questioning their inclusion in the Community acquis.
It includes highly positive aspects, such as support for the phasing-in model for including the new Member States in direct aid payments, remembering that they form part of the acquis, and the phasing-in of the structural operations, but this must be compatible with an effective absorption capacity of the new Member States.
The changes that have taken place are so profound that we cannot allow ourselves to paralyse this march towards freedom just because some wish to ensure a reduction in their contribution to the Community coffers after 2006.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, enlargement of the European Union is for me one of the greatest challenges of the next few years.
We should not lose sight of 2004, because the new Commission starts work in 2005 and the new commissioners from the new Member States would already have to be represented here by then.
Of course it would be easier for us if we had already implemented many reforms.
In many countries transposition of the acquis communautaire is still far from adequate.
Many countries still have discriminatory rules regarding origin and gender, but that can be dealt with.
But I also recall that even after accession my country, for example, did not take up and use all the financial resources it could have had from Brussels.
And I want to expressly say that I do not regard history, which in many cases was one of conflict and not of commonality, as a reason to block enlargement.
If, on the one hand, the nationalists there are can see that the expulsions after 1945 were a consequence of the terrible Nazi dictatorship, and if the others recognise that today, I stress today, the expulsion of minorities as happened by the consensus of the victorious powers after the Second World War, is no longer consistent with our present understanding of minority rights, then this question, too, does not stand in the way of enlargement.
If, as sometimes happens, the EU Member States demand that the candidates fulfil all the criteria and that they reach the level of the Member States one hundred percent, or if they sometimes go even so far as to demand that they do better than the Member States, then of course enlargement will fail.
The states that have applied for membership will start to say from the beginning of autumn that the terms and conditions of membership suit them and at that stage the process will be unstoppable.
As regards Cyprus, which the previous speaker mentioned, I should like to say that the faster Turkey understands where Europe stands today, the more it will be able to help, not just in resolving the problems in Cyprus, but with its own European prospects.
As regards the pre-accession instrument, the ISPA, unfortunately this too has been slow getting started, although we must admit that it strikes a balance between measures on transport and measures on the environment.
Mr President, I should first like to thank both the Presidency and the Commission.
It is a sensible and very balanced proposal which can also ensure that the competitive situation for both Polish and other farmers is fair and just, without the EU's funds drying up in the course of a few years.
In my opinion, it would be an historic mistake if the candidate countries were to be turned into hostages of the Member States' own internal disagreements.
Here, however, greater effort may be needed on the part of all the European institutions, not just Parliament and the Commission, for it is unthinkable that enlargement should be reduced to merely the opening or closure of a set of dossiers.
It is a decision that must have the backing of our fellow citizens but it is an opportunity which we cannot consider rejecting if we genuinely want positive developments for the future.
In my view, Bulgaria has been approaching the process of joining the European Union very seriously since political stability was achieved with the last elections.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, for me the year 2002 is one of the most decisive and historically significant years in the development of the European Union.
Only products that satisfy the same requirements as those of the EU Fifteen must be allowed on to the internal market.
The quota system must be maintained as an important instrument of control for that.
On the other hand, I am glad that the Commission is aware of the difficult situation in the border regions and is investigating the socio-economic situation in those regions.
It is a question of peace on this continent, a question of standards, a question of security for the people who live all over this continent.
We also believe that direct aids are now part of agricultural incomes and that up until 2006 there is a simple model that can be funded, is clear and that we can also support.
At this point we can guarantee full support.
Here we shall of course also be subjecting the European Union's external aids to very critical scrutiny, but we are very much convinced that this is possible and that, here, too, we will be able to make progress accordingly.
Citizens can be assured that between now and 2006 there will be no discernible problems.
The reasons for the difficulties must be sought both in the Member States and in the EU Commission.
According to the Annual Report 2000, not one intervention was approved in connection with the new Community initiatives, and as a result 0% of the budget plan was implemented in this area.
On the other hand, the Commission must also intensify its scrutiny of the implementation of programmes and inform the European Parliament in good time of all irregularities found.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it has been pointed out several times today already, and I can only emphasise it, that the advantages of EU eastward enlargement naturally outweigh the disadvantages and that many will gain from it.
It is not enough only to invest in TENs, because it is not only about ways from Warsaw to Berlin or from Vienna to Prague, but it is also about ways from one small town over here to another small town over there.
But we will only be successful if we simplify the application procedures and if we get better coordination between support instruments, for example between Interreg and PHARE-CBC.
Likewise, no disbursement of funds has been made under programmes such as Urban, Interreg or Leader in the year in question.
In view of the fact that 35 programmes from 1989 are still on the Commission's books, nine years after payments were due to finish, it is imperative that suitable measures are introduced now to bring projects in on time and on budget.
It is amazing that reportedly over EUR 100 billion remains unspent, due in large part to lack of action by national governments.
The UK is one of the worst offenders in this respect.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the liberty of speaking here in response to the problem of asylum seekers from the PECO countries.
I feel this problem clearly raises the question of the European Union's ability to determine the rights and statutes of European citizens or future European citizens with regard to the right of asylum, on the eve of the great challenge of the decisions on enlargement.
The addition of the protocol on the right of asylum to the Treaty of Amsterdam prohibits Member States of the European Union from considering a request for asylum submitted by a national of another Member State.
This runs counter to Article 3 of the Geneva Convention, which defines a refugee as 'any person who [has] a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion'.
Moreover, how can we know what the future holds and state with absolute certainty that the Member States or future Member States of the European Union are above any form of abuse?
The attitude to minorities is a good example of this.
Let us ensure that everyone can claim the right of asylum within the European Union.
Of course I have my doubts as to whether the Union will have to pay all of the EUR 2.4 billion that Lithuania wants for that, spread over 20 years, because every country that operates a nuclear power plant in the normal way has to make provision for the time after it is closed.
I hope that Commissioner De Palacio will be successful in pushing through her announced package of measures laying down for the first time common standards for the safety of nuclear installations under Euratom auspices.
If we want to continue with nuclear energy, that can only be the highest standard technically possible, but I really want to use this as an opportunity to say one thing: we must not be unreasonable in asking from the candidate countries what we do not ask of ourselves.
In the present case we are right to ask that, but then we within the Union must take the appropriate steps ourselves when it comes to safety standards for nuclear installations.
Regional development programmes are intended to promote the competitiveness of employment and the creation of conditions that will ensure sustainable development in Europe's least-favoured regions, in an enlarged Community.
In order to ensure that Community aid is effective, an assessment should not focus solely on cost-benefit analysis but should also include other quantitative and qualitative indicators.
The priority of the funds is to improve the quality of the programmes, to link these with reducing regional asymmetries within the Union and to use them to improve the quality of life of the citizens.
Mr President, allow me, in common with many others, to thank Mr Böge for his extraordinary work on a report in which the focus lies so incredibly clearly upon enlargement and its necessary economic conditions.
I hope that this is also appreciated by the Heads of State and Government meeting in a few weeks' time at the Seville Summit.
Mr President, I would like to talk about the Sommer report and the way in which it promotes and affects the future of enlargement.
We also fully support the amendment we have tabled, which has been adopted by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, calling upon the Commission to undertake to provide a clearer, more exhaustive definition of a 'border region', duly allowing for both land and sea borders, which takes into account changes in the Union's political priorities as well.
Mr President, since enlargement of the European Union is an undeniable reality, we must also take the opportunity it provides to produce a balance-sheet of the Union's own policies, given that many inequalities still remain within the Union and that enlargement cannot be allowed to take place at the expense of the poorest members of the current European Union.
I feel that the proposal put forward by the Commission for the negotiations on farming is, on the whole, a reasonable one.
The most controversial issue is that of the implementation of current direct aid, created by the 1992 and 1999 reforms of the CAP to compensate for the price reductions decided on at that time.
The mistake the Commission proposal makes is to suggest that the current model of direct aid should be maintained beyond 2006.
The current system of direct aid under the CAP was justified in the medium-term to prevent falls in farmers' incomes.
By 2006, therefore, we need to create a new system of aid for agriculture based on farming's multifunctional role in society.
If this is done, the proposal will already be more technically consistent and will be fairer, both in the present and in the future.
It is therefore absolutely essential that we should continue working to support the efforts that the candidate countries are making to restructure and modernise their agriculture, under the requirement that the candidate countries should comply with the Community acquis, but we must be quite clear that we too must comply with this Community acquis.
The rural development measures must ensure that there are active rural areas with diversified production in the candidate countries and especially that they guarantee employment.
If our Member States cannot cope with our funds, how will the new Members be able to do so?
Relations and contact between the citizens of the old and future Member States are also necessary when providing information on membership.
Although the main responsibility for information rests with the governments of the applicant countries and the EU institutions, it would be good if civil society could be involved in letting others know about their experiences.
The discussions that preceded the referenda in Finland, Sweden and Austria are still fresh in the memories of people there.
We are going to get to a situation where the budget of the common agricultural policy does not fit the size of the new European Union.
If the door opens for ten countries in Copenhagen at the end of this year, then in Bulgaria and Romania they will want to know where they stand.
We must not forget these countries.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mr Brok and the many speakers who have helped to present the report before us today on their work.
The entry of the candidate countries is a decision, a political objective and a necessity for the Union's States.
The decision to allow individual countries to enter the Union is based on merit and strict compliance with the Helsinki Council and the Copenhagen criteria.
In actual fact, the present time is a phase in the enlargement of Europe.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sincerely thank all the rapporteurs who have been involved so closely with the subject of eastern enlargement not only this year but over the last few years.
Political support and the support of the people in the enlargement process is the decisive point and that can of course only be given by democratically legitimised forces such as Members of Parliament as representatives of the people of Europe.
I assume that in the 2003 procedure we shall be able to find a euro or two to make additional resources available for these areas.
Above all, we need a better de minimis rule, to give additional support, in the form of European subsidies, to the efforts of our Member States and regions at restructuring using their own resources.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we meet this afternoon under the banner of 'enlargement of the European Union'.
The end is in sight, although chapters on such things as agriculture and regional policy have yet to be sorted out.
What made the greatest impression on me was the solidarity our farmers showed with their counterparts from the future Member States, despite the adverse situation they themselves have been put in by falling prices for milk and cereals.
This was for me an appeal for everything possible to be done for the people in the present EU and in the candidate countries not to be left alone with their concerns and needs.
Secondly, the funds that continue to be needed for the development of rural areas must be provided by all the structural policy measures and not just from the common agricultural policy.
Thirdly, full harmonisation is absolutely necessary in the internal market.
Mr President, you can imagine that after five hours of debate I have no desire to add anything new, because I think everything has already been heard.
I am convinced we shall succeed.
So, with your permission, Mr President, I would ask you to let me answer in writing the questions raised in this debate.
I too would like to thank you for the broad support with which the Commission's proposals have met in this debate.
I would like to give you something of a warning against resuming the debate on an INRA programme or whatever the thing is called, by which I mean a warning that we would only be delaying matters still further if we were now to start a debate about amending the financial legislation or even the Financial Perspective, or if we were to invent new bureaucratic structures that first needed to be developed.
I would, though, like to reiterate that conflating the enlargement process in any way with further agricultural reforms or even making the one dependent on the other will not just create difficulties for enlargement, but will delay both it and further reforms.
As regards the debate on the financial framework for enlargement, let me, as Budget Commissioner, reiterate that, in producing its proposals, the Commission has had to be guided by the principle that a proper balance has to be struck between the interests of the present Member States and those of the new ones.
That means that the net cost to the present Member States is even less than the amount stipulated in Agenda 2000 as the maximum burden resulting from enlargement.
But this is a joint effort for the sake of solidarity, and the financial aspect is of course of great importance in public debate, and also in debates in Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
However, it must not be forgotten that this debate is not about whether or not to build a new stretch of motorway, but about the unification of Europe.
I would also like to thank all the speakers.
The debate is closed.
Your presence here today continues a tradition initiated by your respected father, King Hussein, who addressed this Assembly in 1983 and again in 1991.
Your visit also reinforces the role of Jordan in Europe's Barcelona Process and Euro-Mediterranean dialogue.
The European Parliament strongly believes that the path to peace will not be found in terrorism, assassinations or violence and cannot be founded on force.
Jean Monnet said it very simply 50 years ago.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now examining a Commission proposal for a Council decision on the indirect tax in force in the Canary Islands.
The Council decision is, consequently, necessary, but to validate tax exemptions and their extension to Canarian regional products, an aspect that is not properly clarified in the Commission proposal.
The central tenet of the Commission proposal is, therefore, the establishment of tax exemptions under Articles 23, 25 and 90 of the Treaty, on the grounds that discrimination is practised in favour of certain industrial goods manufactured in the Canaries over imported industrial goods, since the former can be taxed at rates 5, 15 or 25 percentage points lower, depending on the type of product concerned.
The proposal now under consideration deserves my total support.
It seeks to enable regions such as the Canaries, which suffer serious competitive disadvantages in the industrial sector as a consequence of their remoteness, better to integrate and exploit the highly competitive dynamic of the single European market, of Economic and Monetary Union and of globalisation itself.
This type of specific measure is crucial to ensuring the survival and modernisation of industrial activity in the Canaries, which now produces little more than 5% of regional GDP, when historically it has always generated very high levels.
The integration of the Canaries, however, into the customs territory of the European Union in 1991, and the gradual dismantling, by 1999, of the tax then in force, which was also intended to protect regional production, have accentuated the fragility and the vulnerability of the Canaries' industrial sector to external competition.
As the situation in the tobacco industry shows quite clearly, the decline has been steady.
Between 1985 and 2000, the tobacco industry shed more than 3 300 jobs, or around 67% of its workforce.
This proposal is also justified, however, in light of other considerations, not least the competitive inequality suffered by industrial firms in the outermost regions.
I also have to point out that there are a few other inconsistencies, for example, the levying of the new tax on gin, vodka and liqueurs, but not on whisky or other spirits.
The situation in the outermost regions of the Community is completely different.
We had developed a small industrial sector on the basis of some rules which are certainly quite ancient, going back to the time when the Canary Islands were brought under the Crown of Castile, before Spain existed.
When Spain joined the European Community, the Spanish Government took care to include some special provisions in the Act of Accession of Spain and Portugal to the European Community to guarantee this special regime, and there is a protocol on this, which was amended by a Council decision in 1991 to adapt it to the internal market.
What we have done is to replace old forms of taxation, which were much more restrictive, like the APIM (Tax on Production and Imports) or the special tariff, with some new forms of taxation which conflict much less with the operation of the internal market.
This means that, once the Council approves the system, we shall have the opportunity to go on reviewing and adapting it in order to achieve the objective of the functioning of the internal market.
At the moment, I believe the objective for the Spanish Government in making the proposals and for the Commission is to liberalise the internal market and to facilitate the integration of this region - so distant and facing so many difficulties - into the rest of the internal market.
These tax measures are exceptional, specific and designed to compensate for the disadvantages suffered by the islands as an outermost region and are therefore fully covered by Article 299(2) of the Treaty.
It is a legal framework that is not limited to this type of tax measures.
Mr President, I must first of all offer my congratulations and thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Marques.
Just as the Spanish Government has done, by virtue of its Constitution, just as the European Commission is doing - it has seen that this project is valid and does not run counter to Community law - and as is reflected by the broad agreement within the Council, which may well approve it in a few days' time, once Parliament has pronounced on it.
For all these reasons and others mentioned by the rapporteur and some of the speakers, this report must be approved and, as a member of the European People's Party, that is what I hope will happen.
Mr President, I too wish to congratulate Mr Marques on the excellent work he has carried out here, not least with regard to the clear distinction he has made between the existence of the Canary Islands' having their own tax arrangements as a right and the possibility of discrimination in favour of certain local products to boost their economic development.
I also wish to welcome our fellow Members from the Canaries who are present and say that, speaking on behalf of the Azores, we stand shoulder to shoulder with you and that we fully support your objectives of achieving the most balanced possible form of development for the Canaries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing we must understand: what we have here are not proposals for tax exemptions for some rich countries at the centre of Europe, such as Luxembourg, for example, which would seriously undermine the balance of the internal market, which would create economic imbalances, and even a concentration of economic activity that in fact benefits no one.
The European Commission, in collaboration with the competent authorities, has therefore put forward a proposal for a decision on special fiscal measures designed to correct the costs of being an outermost region.
However, the most important fact from a political viewpoint is, I believe, that the Commission has, to this end, taken Article 299(2) of the Treaty as the legal basis for implementing a temporary and proportional derogation from Articles 23, 25 and 90 when applying the Community provisions that allow the Spanish authorities to discriminate in fiscal terms regarding certain Canary Island products.
The proposed measures will impact negatively on liquor and cigarette manufacturers in many Member States.
That article recognises the specific nature of the outermost regions, which include the Canary Islands, and it provides for specific measures to be adopted, particularly in taxation, to take into account the special characteristics and constraints of those regions.
On the basis of a memorandum and notifications from Spain, the Commission proposed a Community framework for a tax known as "Arbitrio sobre las Importaciones y Entregas de Mercancías en las islas Canarias", or the AIEM tax, which would apply to the Canary Islands from 1 January 2002.
As has been remarked by many Members of this Parliament, a number of handicaps affecting local manufacturing firms were identified, and this justifies the introduction of a specific measure to encourage industrial production and increase its share in the Canary Islands' gross domestic product through exemption or rates reductions granted to local products.
For that reason a Community framework has been proposed which selectively authorises maximum tax rates of 5% and 15% for various sensitive products to which Spain may apply exemptions in the light of the need to promote local production activities.
The rates and exemptions contained in the Community framework must be seen as options subject to ceilings which the national and regional authorities may use in combination with the support needed for local production.
This decision is to be applied for a period of ten years.
It will nevertheless be necessary to evaluate the proposed system after five years.
This applies to Amendment No 1, which proposes to introduce a reference to the Commission report of March 2000 on the measures to implement Article 299(2) of the Treaty.
This also applies to Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9, which propose basing the European framework of this AIEM tax on the limitation of maximum exemptions instead of the tax itself, Amendment No 8, proposing introduction of a recital to justify the date of application of the proposals, and Amendments Nos 10, 12, 13 and 14, which are purely formal.
Amendments Nos 15, 16, 17 and 18, which were introduced at a late stage, propose rates of 5% and 10% for products and 15% for tobacco and are not acceptable to the Commission.
The 5%, 15% and 25% rates proposed by the Commission correspond globally to the rates allowed under the previous regime, the purpose being to focus on the products for which the measures are most needed.
Mr Fernández Martín then said that maintaining local industry maintains local employment and activities other than tourism.
That apparently ensued from Amendments Nos 16 to 19 put forward by Mr Helmer.
If Mrs Lulling does not believe me, I suggest that the two of us visit the Canary Islands and look at the plants and on our trip we can also discuss the possibility of excise taxes on wine.
Just to clarify matters, Mrs Lulling, I will read out to you Rule 122 on personal statements: 'A Member who wishes to make a personal statement shall be heard at the end of the discussion of the item of the agenda being dealt with or when the Minutes of the sitting to which the request for leave to speak refers are considered for approval.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
We have, however, tabled seven supplementary amendments.
The committee gives its unreserved support to the Commission's proposal that the programme be proceeded with for a further five years.
We consider this a matter of urgency in view of the difficulties confronting the European Union in its attempts at preventing tax discrimination and tax fraud in the internal market, as mutual understanding and greater cooperation between the various tax authorities is of vital importance not least because of the difference in competences between internal market legislation and tax law.
You will find, in addition to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs' seven amendments, an amendment by the Liberals and another by the Greens accompanying the reports from the Commission and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and serving as bases for discussion.
What is crucial is that we include the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs' amendments in the Commission's programme, for that is the way we have taken, and it is the right one.
Mr President, I am speaking not on behalf of my group or my committee, but on behalf of the British Conservative delegation in the European Democrat pillar within the PPE-DE Group.
We do not support the extension of the FISCALIS programme to cover direct taxes, in particular income tax and capital tax.
These are areas which should remain a matter for the exclusive competence of Member States.
The right to tax citizens is one of the hallmarks of a government.
I know the response will be that this is just a technical scheme to exchange information and run seminars for tax officials, but I say it is one more step that takes the European Commission and the European Union closer into the tax affairs of Member States.
As Commissioner Prodi himself recently stated, very high political ambitions have often been achieved in the EU as a series of small, almost technical, steps.
It has definitely helped the fight against fraud and in doing so has improved the workings of the internal market.
It has allowed officials to adopt new administrative practices and cooperate more with each other.
All of these things have been very beneficial since 1998.
There have been exchanges of officials from the EU Member States, seminars on indirect tax issues of common interest, multilateral control of excise duties, development of common professional training across the European Union, including improving audit skills for the officials concerned, and, significantly, development of language training.
It should also be extended, but only in its present form, to the candidate countries, which could benefit very much from this programme for the objectives and the kind of things that the Fiscalis programme has been carrying out.
They could certainly benefit from implementing the necessary legislative, organisational, administrative and technical measures in the programme as it exists at the moment.
There is also anxiety that, as Mrs Villiers and Mrs Honeyball pointed out, the next step after the common exchange of information might be the harmonisation of taxes, including direct taxes.
Mr President, in spite of their good points, both the Commission's Fiscalis 2007 programme and the report by my esteemed fellow Member, Mr García-Margallo y Marfil, seem to be lacking something.
In fact, these are often nations that are already highly restricted by their own legal framework.
This is the case of my country, Catalonia.
In any case, all these political bodies would like to be able to establish direct links with the Commission.
They would also like to be able to participate in Council meetings when their competences are at stake.
Mr President, tax evasion and fraud are, unfortunately, common features of the tax systems of all European countries.
It clearly falls to each country to adopt appropriate measures for eliminating tax evasion, although some of the stimulus for this must also come from Community policies.
In Portugal, for example, we know, as a result of studies of unquestionable scientific merit, that more than 25% of potential tax revenue is lost every year.
In this context, all the Community measures favouring this effort, and specifically the continuation of the Fiscalis programme, which has been updated and strengthened under the proposals put forward by the European Parliament, which also apply to the candidate countries, are correct, welcome and are measures that we can support.
We must move resolutely towards achieving legislative harmonisation itself.
The Commission also felt that it was necessary, particularly taking into account the conclusion of the Council's ad hoc working party on tax fraud, to propose the extension of the programme to direct taxation.
The Commission also believes that it is important to give as much support as possible to the countries preparing for the enlargement of the European Union.
For that reason, candidate countries are put on an equal footing with Member States in this programme, which has special objectives to meet the needs of those administrations.
I should like to add it is very important that this programme is adopted before the expiry of the current Fiscalis programme.
In particular, as regards the budgetary issues raised in the reports, Amendments Nos 1 and 2 appear to be counter to the agreements between our respective institutions on budgetary discipline and in substance do no more than repeat what is already found in the proposal as regards the programme's financial framework.
Amendment No 5 is superfluous, because Parliament is already entitled to obtain the relevant documents.
Amendment No 7 is superfluous because the decision already contains provisions on a regular follow-up of how objectives are achieved.
Amendment No 8 is also superfluous because the present programme does not have any direct impact on local fiscal authorities and I say this in particular in answer to remarks made by Mr Mayol i Raynal.
Your support for the proposal is very important in achieving that result.
I am very much aware, as perhaps Mrs Villiers knows, of the fact that direct taxation, except where it distorts the internal market, for example in the case of contributions to pension funds across borders, is very much a matter of national political preferences.
If we want to do something about fraud in the area of direct taxation, we must facilitate cooperation between fiscal authorities.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The next item is the report (A5-0219/2002) by Mr Berenguer Fuster on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the Council common position (5462/1/2002 - C5-0148/2002 - 2000/0213(COD)) for adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on insurance mediation.
Mr President, we have now reached the home straight in a Commission initiative - I would call it a good Commission initiative - designed to achieve harmonisation of legislation on insurance mediation.
That, however, is not all that is needed: we must also harmonise our laws to achieve high standards of consumer protection in an area such as this, where there is a highly significant imbalance between the information held by the vendors of the products and that held by the purchasers.
At first reading, Parliament adopted a total of 40 amendments, some admittedly by a tiny majority.
If this agreement can be reached without going into the conciliation phase, so much the better and, if so, that is an objective I believe can be achieved in the processing of this directive, because Parliament has shown how it can play a full part in the legislative process by collaborating with other institutions, without the legislative procedure becoming unnecessarily lengthy because of it.
The procedure, however, also has its problems, and perhaps the most important of them is the debating system in this Parliament.
Even so, I cannot help at least trying to put across my reasons for opposing or proposing a vote against certain of the amendments that have been adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
I am very pleased with this Council common position document, which reads far better and more intelligibly than the initial Commission proposals.
It is internally consistent and incorporates some 20 first reading amendments from Parliament, including several that I submitted, such as the need to cater for the electronic age and Internet age by allowing for computer and disk storage of data, exemptions for telephone selling, exemptions for the travel industry for small contracts and action to ensure that the scope of the directive does not extend to the mere provision of information on products.
I shall support compromise Amendment No 16 to get rid of the best-advice principle, which would impose unacceptable burdens on the industry.
I continue to support Amendment No 18, which is designed to reduce the burden on the industry by ensuring that the obligation to provide information applies only when a customer requests it.
In summary, this has the making of a good piece of pioneer legislation which will be an integral part of the financial services action plan and the first designed specifically for insurance brokers.
Madam President, Commissioner, I am replacing Mrs Riis-Jørgensen, who has other important commitments this evening.
I also want to thank the rapporteur, Mr Berenguer Fuster, for a sound piece of work, from the first reading to today's second and very rapid reading.
The fact that this balance between the market and consumer protection has, in the end, been established at the right level and feels reasonable is incredibly important for an increasingly cross-border market.
We shall therefore vote against this amendment.
Mr President, the current draft proposal on cross-European insurance mediation ensures a high level of professionalism and competence among insurance intermediaries.
A single registration system for intermediaries facilitates cross-border activities by way of freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services.
The proposal also guarantees a high level of protection for customers' interests.
Unfortunately the original Commission proposal did not take sufficient account of the diversity of European insurance markets.
Our amendments from the first reading referred explicitly to those whose main activity is not to sell insurance but rather to offer the standardised insurance contracts that have been in use in many countries for decades, for instance tourist assistance packages or car insurance offered by travel agencies and car dealers.
Trouble-free years of experience have shown that the current practice is in the interests of both intermediaries and customers.
I am happy that my colleagues supported my amendments in the committee vote and I hope they will also support them tomorrow.
The directive as it now stands in the second reading is a good draft, providing a reasonable compromise between the legitimate interests of Member States, insurance providers and customers.
I believe that both the Commission proposal and Parliament's report make a further contribution to a stronger financial internal market, to facilitation of cross-border activity and to greater harmonisation in this area, which is dependent on public trust and of importance to transparency.
For my part, I would like to deal with Amendment No 6, which concerns itself with greater transparency, because we want to see to it that the register, in addition to the proposed methods, shall indicate the country or countries in which the intermediary conducts business under the rules on establishment or on the freedom to provide services.
Then Amendment No 12 has to do with sorting out the frequently-discussed question of whether information should be supplied without being requested, by stipulating that information on the customer's rights must be supplied, whilst detailed information may be requested.
After the second reading in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, only 18 amendments were submitted to plenary.
The action plan for financial services identified insurance intermediaries as a priority objective.
This hinders the proper functioning of the internal market.
The directive following the text of the common position will ensure that, once registered in his home Member State, which is responsible for checking professional and financial requirements, an insurance intermediary will be able to conduct his activities throughout the internal market.
The Council common position now submitted to this Parliament is fully consistent with the essential objectives pursued in the Commission's proposal.
But it is vital to ensure that the difficult balance reached in the common position is not put in jeopardy by amendments which would not be compatible with its fundamental objectives.
The Commission can accept the following amendments: Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 15 and 16.
That amendment aims to exclude from the scope of the proposal a large number of insurance intermediaries, such as car dealers selling motor insurance, travel agencies, veterinary surgeons, captive intermediaries of industrial firms and some bank insurance activities.
The Commission cannot accept it.
Amendment No 9 introduces a transitional provision aiming to facilitate the application of the directive to those intermediaries already carrying out activities before the date of adoption of the proposal by the Commission, namely September 2000.
The Commission already welcomed this idea at first reading, but, as Amendment No 15 better meets the concerns of the directive, the Commission would prefer it to be adopted rather than Amendment No 9.
While a fundamental element of the proposal and the common position is to ensure a high level of consumer protection by providing customers with appropriate information and advice, Amendment No 13 would devalue that requirement.
The Commission cannot accept that amendment.
The text of the common position already contains a balanced provision which makes it mandatory to provide appropriate advice on the basis of a fair analysis of the insurance contracts available on the market.
That provision fully ensures a high level of consumer protection.
Amendment No 16, which refers to an objective analysis, is along the same lines as the common position and may improve the text.
That would jeopardise the objective of a high level of consumer protection.
The common position already takes account of the spirit of Amendment No 44 proposed at first reading.
Accepting this new amendment would deprive the consumer of written confirmation of the information required by the directive.
The same reasoning also applies to Amendment No 18, which reduces the obligation on insurance intermediaries to specify the demands of the customer.
Thank you, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
The next item is a report (A5-0177/2002) by Mrs Stihler, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on measures for the recovery of cod and hake stocks [COM(2002) 724 - C5-0095/2001 - 0299(CNS)].
In November 2000, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) warned that cod stocks in the North Sea and west of Scotland waters and the northern hake stocks are at serious risk of collapse.
ICES estimates that cod stocks in the North Sea are at their lowest level since 1963 and that technical measures and TAC reductions alone will not be enough to restore them to within safe limits.
For hake the decline in stocks has been less dramatic, but stocks are thought to be around only half of their 1980 levels.
During 2001, the Commission adopted various emergency regulations to restrict the fishing of these species and in June 2001, it issued a communication outlining its strategy for rebuilding cod and hake stocks in Community and adjacent waters.
I hope colleagues will support me as rapporteur in trying to reinstate hake in this report.
Although there is disagreement over whether cod and hake should be treated together, the Commission's approach seems to me acceptable, provided that sufficient account is taken of the specific situation of the two species.
The figures and the levels of hake stocks have been questioned and we should be guided by evidence.
I ask colleagues to vote for Amendments Nos 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15 and 16 and against Amendments Nos 1, 3, 5, 9 and 14.
The European Union should be a global example of marine research, but it is not, not even - and I say this to Commissioner Fischler - with his proposed reform, which pushes science into the background.
The Canadian scientist McGuire has also rejected the hake catastrophe reports.
The industry rejects them outright.
We want the ecological reports to include economic and social reports, and we must take into account the industry which has been fishing in the same waters for several generations, and they do not understand the Commission's proposal, in view of the results they are getting, and they want other biological reference points to be selected that are broad in scope and more rigorous.
I call on it to review the proposal for hake, since the industry that depends on it demands more transparency, more participation, more dialogue, more objectivity and more reliability before it will accept the proposals that the Commission puts before us.
Madam President, I offer my sincerest congratulations to my colleague, Catherine Stihler, for her excellent work, which gives the Council the opportunity to approve a much more balanced plan for these two species.
I cannot, however, agree with her desire, as rapporteur, to reinstate hake in this report.
As she well knows, I had tabled 13 amendments in committee aimed at softening the measures for hake, and more than half lapsed when the committee adopted the amendment tabled by Mr Varela, which separates the two species.
The Community fisheries policy has to find a balance among the measures on stock conservation, the reasonable adjustment of the fleet to each Member State and the maintenance of economic activity in fishing-dependent regions.
The Commission has not undertaken any study of these consequences or of those that must be taken into account when the plan is implemented, nor has it shown us an evaluation of the emergency measures it adopted in 2001.
It must be remembered too that the TAC for hake was cut by 51% between 1999 and 2001.
Mr President, this is a very important report because the European Community is discussing recovery plans for fish stocks for the first time.
ICES says that cod in the North Sea is at its lowest level since 1963.
We must vote against this amendment.
I agree with the rapporteur on this point.
It is completely unacceptable.
It is doing the fishing industry no favours in the long term if this is the kind of simplistic, nationalistic short-term approach that has been taken.
If the report goes through plenary as it is, the Verts/ALE Group will have to vote against it.
At the same time, the number of cod fishermen has fallen considerably in my country.
However, in the Commission's proposals on reform of the European fisheries policy which Commissioner Fischler presented recently, those very fish-stock related reductions are missing.
The package of measures must be effective, but must also take account of the socio-economic damage to the fisheries sector.
Due to the fleet concentration in the open areas, vulnerable areas are being over-fished.
These figures can be based on the quota and the observed over-fishing in recent years.
That is why the Commission has come to us with a radical new package of proposals for reform of the common fisheries policy.
If we do so, it will not be only cod and hake that disappear, our fishing industry will disappear as well.
This feeling still exists in some reactions against conservation policies.
The aim of the legislation currently under consideration, which is the subject of the excellent Stihler report, is to prevent the disaster that the extinction of fish as popular as cod and hake would represent.
They must ensure that the objective of sustainable fisheries is at the core of fisheries management.
The Commission must ensure that scientific advice is reliable and verifiable, not just in determining what areas should be closed but determining the effect of such closures.
But the Commission has failed to propose a system which ensures that there is equal treatment of fishermen subject to recovery measures and that it is not promoting unfair competition between fishermen from different Member States.
I hope the Commission will heed the committee's amendment calling for Community funding which is not dependent on cofinancing to compensate fishermen under these plans.
It is vital that safety be taken into account when measuring the impact of recovery plans and, for that matter, fisheries management in general.
Madam President, I hope we have all been able to fortify ourselves with the delicious Dutch herrings that have been provided for us.
I would like to thank Mr Albert Jan Maat from the bottom of my heart.
I do not want to talk up the vote on stock rebuilding as the fateful question in the run-up to the fisheries reform, but I do hope that those who reject the Commission's proposal for a regulation as submitted, will after all agree to a compromise tomorrow morning, a compromise that would again permit hake alongside cod, just as the Commission had rightly proposed.
Madam President, I have conflicting feelings about this proposal for a regulation and this report.
To quote from the text: 'For hake, the decline in stocks has been less dramatic and therefore the scientific evidence is less clear cut and indeed the subject of some dispute'.
Madam President, firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very courageous report.
We must in particular find a solution to discards of fish, tradable quotas when you come ashore or whatever it may be.
I again congratulate the rapporteur and ask that we all vote for what was originally a cod and hake report - and make sure that we do have a cod and hake report.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in this House to support the proposal by the Committee on Fisheries, principally to uphold the need to exclude northern hake stocks from the scope of the proposal for a Council regulation establishing measures for the recovery of cod and hake stocks.
As many here are aware, this proposal foreshadows many aspects to be discussed in future on the overall reform of the common fisheries policy.
ICES has advised that the stock of hake is in danger of collapse.
If this is the case, the Commission must act to rectify this situation.
Regarding Amendment No 2, the Commission feels that this amendment is unnecessary since account is already consistently taken of scientific reports on environmental effects, to the extent that these effects are scientifically documented and quantified.
Regarding Amendment No 3, the Commission is already working on improvement of all aspects of scientific advice.
Any communication on this topic will be included in the second package of reform proposals, which will be presented to this Parliament in the near future.
Furthermore, it is not correct to say that the necessary analysis of the correlation between fishing effort and mortality rates or the appropriate level of tax has not been made for the year 2002.
Regarding Amendment No 4, the Commission can agree in principle with this analysis, since TACs are not instruments which will necessarily solve the problem of discards.
The inclusion of the Council in this mechanism would take much more time.
Amendment No 7 is accepted: there has been a typographical error.
Regarding Amendment No 8, the Commission is in the process of considering the impact of a lower annual variation in TAC level on stock recovery.
Regarding Amendment No 9, the Commission cannot accept that amendment.
Technical measures are dealt with in a different legislative proposal.
The Commission indicated earlier that only about 20% of the desired reduction in fishing mortality will be achieved by the application.
Regarding Amendment No 10, the Commission cannot accept that amendment.
A proposal for 5% reflects the probable catches of cod and is therefore proportionate to the objective pursued.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 11.
While it is difficult to calculate the amount of a supplementing premium needed to generate more interest in scrapping, 20% is already a significant increase and corresponds to previous practice in similar situations, for example structural measures for the ex-Morocco fleet in Spain and Portugal.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 12.
We see no reason to restrict safety-related aid to smaller vessels, that is, those of less than 12 metres.
The recent proposals for CFP reform propose that all vessels should be eligible for such aid, provided that it does not affect the fishing capacity of the vessel.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 13.
To accept Community co-financing for a longer period would significantly reduce the availability of Community funds for co-financing of scrapping, which is clearly the priority objective in this case.
Amendment No 14 is not acceptable to the Commission, since the Community cannot accept full responsibility for aid of this kind.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 15.
Reference is made in the last Paragraph of the explanatory memorandum to the Commission's intention to conduct an impact study within 18 months of adoption of the proposal.
This might be supported by the addition of texts in an article of the proposal, but the reference in the explanatory memorandum should be sufficient.
Reference is made in the last paragraph of the explanatory memorandum to the Commission's intention to conduct an impact study within 18 months of adoption of the proposal.
The reform of the common fisheries policy prioritises the improvement of scientific advice.
Thank you, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
The next item is a report (A5-0198/2002) by Mrs Ayuso González, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the Common Organisation of the Market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin [COM(2001) 101 - C5-0095/2001 - 2001/0055(CNS)].
Madam President, two months ago we were debating this same report, because the agricultural alcohol problem is actually one that has arisen owing to the large amount of agricultural alcohol produced in the candidate countries for accession, because the future negotiation with the WTO may give rise to further reductions in border production, and also owing to the foreseeable growth in demand for bioethanol as fuel in the European Union.
This report proposes in one of its amendments - the most important one - to change the title: instead of a COM, what is proposed is a Council regulation laying down specific measures concerning the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin within the European Union.
Not one of the candidate countries wants to adopt or copy the German model which is the subject of this dispute.
When it comes to the interests of German distillers and the interests of our cultural landscape, I appeal to Mrs Künast, the German Federal Minister for Consumer Protection, Food and Agriculture, to vote on 27 June in such a way as to achieve unanimity in this matter.
Our producers are also concerned about the prospect of duty-free entry from the 48 least-developed countries.
We understand these concerns, but I do not believe that removing the prohibition on state aid provisions, which are provided for in Amendments Nos 7 and 19, is a solution to the problem.
The proposals do involve a minimum degree of administration and documentation.
I hope that Parliament will reject Amendments Nos 7 and 19, in which case I will be able to support the report.
The Commission is of the opinion that the actual market situation in this sector makes it necessary to propose at least a minimal set of rules and that, accordingly, the chances of success this time are fairly good.
Indeed if the title proposed by the Commission creates problems because it refers more to an intervention system not provided for here, a more appropriate title reflecting the content of the regulation as suggested by Parliament can be considered.
Amendments 7 and 19 concerning deletion of the state aids article are not acceptable.
The Commission is of the opinion that all provisions proposed are necessary to establish a set of common rules for the alcohol sector, including the provisions on application of the rules on state aids.
Without fair application of those rules, there would not be a real common set of rules for agricultural alcohol, and I would point out that those rules already apply to synthetic alcohol.
The Commission is well aware of the concern that the application of state aid rules may create a problem for the functioning of the German alcohol monopoly.
The Commission is willing to try and find a solution, but cannot accept the proposal to simply delete the related article on state aid from the draft text.
Amendment No 8, which refers to the declaration on rum under the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement and asks for special treatment to rum producers affected by the application of EU policies is also difficult to accept.
By definition, the proposed regulation should comply with all bilateral and international agreements, as stated in Article 14.
Amendment No 13 can be accepted except for the reference to CN code 3814 0090 in the definition of non-agricultural alcohol because that code covers mixtures of alcohol with solvents and is not limited to non-agricultural alcohol.
Amendments Nos 14, 16, 17 and 18 are purely technical improvements to the text that have also been discussed in the Council, and there is no problem in accepting them.
Amendment No 20, however, is more difficult to accept.
The Commission does not want to create a specific working group on alcohol as part of the wine management committee.
For that reason, the Commission has already made a statement on organising the work of the wine management committee in such a way that all alcohol-related items are grouped together in order to permit Member States to send the real experts to the meeting.
This text appears in other regulations and is therefore acceptable.
I also recognise the value of existing aid systems in certain Member States, especially for small agricultural distilleries, and the need to find a solution for them.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 23, as indicated a short time ago.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 3, 5, 13 and 15 on including synthetic alcohol in the proposal as far as the system of data collection is concerned.
Thank you, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The planned creation of the Agency is accompanied by other measures with which the Commission intends to ensure a more effective protection of European shipping against the risk of accidents and the protection of the seas against pollution.
We consider the new agency to be enormously important, because it will supply the Member States and the Commission with the necessary technical and scientific support for them effectively to implement Community legislation in the maritime safety sector and in preventing pollution from ships.
We are also pleased with the amendments approved in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy with regard to the crucial ' voluntary unpaid donation ' of blood, the principle of subsidiarity and the professional qualifications of those working in this sector.
The issues of whether blood should be given for free and the voluntary nature of blood donations are of fundamental importance.
The participation of the Union's citizens in European elections is far from satisfactory.
The steady decline in the turnout rate in European elections is a matter of concern to us.
In the next European elections in 2004, the Community institutions and Member States must adopt the necessary measures to make voters more aware of the importance of these elections.
The Member States must reach agreement on a date for the next European elections which does not coincide with national traditional events or public holidays, in order to optimise the conditions for the turnout in the elections.
The fact is that since neither issues of a sensitive ethical nature nor the duty - which we should all fully understand - to fully respect the various national legal systems are being called into question, our support for this report, as for others in the same field, has been constant, cooperative and unreserved.
