Credit requirements directives: Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC - Community programme for financial services, financial reporting and auditing The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mr Karas, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC as regards banks affiliated to central institutions, certain own funds items, large exposures, supervisory arrangements, and crisis management - C6-0339/2008 -, and the report by Mr Hoppenstedt, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Community programme to support specific activities in the field of financial services, financial reporting and auditing - C6-0031/2009 -.
I would like to thank Mrs Berès, Mrs Bowles and my fellow Members in the other groups for their support and, especially, the Secretariat and all staff members.
The second step is that we must now achieve stronger integration of financial market supervision.
The second area is securitisation, the granting of loans.
For the first time we are introducing the rule that a loan can only be granted if the lender holds a retention for securitisation in its books.
We have provided for a retention of at least 5%, but we have commissioned CEPS to look into whether an increase is reasonable and to publish its findings in a Commission review before the end of the year, taking international developments into consideration.
And, when banks lend to each other, the sum of EUR 150 million must not be exceeded.
The fourth point is that we are working to improve the quality of own funds and hybrid capital.
I call on you to accept this report and the proposal for agreement with the trilogue so that we, as the European Union and as the European Parliament, can maintain our leading role in the reform of the financial markets.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of financial oversight operating uniformly throughout Europe and the failure of the system at international and European level are some of the reasons for the current financial and economic crisis.
This is exactly what the Community programme to support specific activities in the field of financial services, financial reporting and auditing achieves.
I welcome the fact that the Commission has responded to Parliament's call for action and is proposing to provide financial support for the Community in the financial services sector and in the financial reporting and auditing areas as well as for the activities of certain European and international institutions in order to ensure that Community policies in this area are effective.
This is a good signal.
Firstly I would like to welcome Parliament's amendments to the proposal for a Community programme to support specific activities in the field of financial services, financial reporting and auditing.
We also believe we can still achieve most of the objectives we are aiming at under the programme and for these reasons we can support the amendments.
I would like to say that the retention rule has emerged as something that is not nonsense but plain common sense.
I therefore very much welcome the clause providing for a review by the end of 2009 suggested by the European Parliament.
I am also pleased to see that Parliament has resisted the calls from industry for less stringent rules on interbank risks.
As regards securitisation, the Commission still considers that in some aspects there would have been merit in further clarifying and specifying the way the 5% retention will be calculated.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, we seem to be a succession of old hands rising to speak, but would that I were not making my last speech in the European Parliament in the worst economic situation of my lifetime - and that is a lifetime that started in the blighted 1930s - and would that I were not also having to speak in a debate on a piece of European legislation which is not, I am afraid, wholly satisfactory: the Capital Requirements Directive.
So I just hope that, when the time comes to review this directive, the necessary impact assessments will have been made, that wise counsels will have been consulted, that the global context will have been properly and fully considered and that fully appropriate rules are ultimately implemented.
I would also like to thank Mr Karas for the way in which we have been able to re-open the trialogue so that we will be able, in the period before this directive comes into force, to revise the retention threshold.
In the past, the Commission would tell us that it could not fund level 3 committees; today, it is possible even before these committees become agencies.
Review at the end of the year on the retention per cent means we have covered all bases, including international cooperation.
That is why other forums - also having started with higher retention proposals - are tending to settle on 5% too.
The workers are not being deceived or disorientated by the decisions of the European Union to end the crisis.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Thank you, Mr President.
I would like to say the following.
This leads to a situation in which officials can govern however they want to, and they do this in a way that suits their own interests, which are in increasing the risks enormously, and then the result is what we are seeing now.
The regulatory system in Basel II was circumvented by means of shadow banking.
I therefore believe that we should tackle this in a different way and ask what should be done.
I would like to thank Mrs Berès for her amendment to the proposal. 2.
Nevertheless, for the sake of compromise, I regard this situation as progress mainly because the current compromise also advocates that the draft regulation on the integrated supervisory system should be produced quickly based on the De Larosière material, which will already be good, in our opinion, as well as providing a very significant benefit for communitarisation.
Finally, as this is my last speech, I would also like to thank you, Madam President, and all my fellow Members for the work which I have been able to do here for the last five years. (PT) This year European wealth will fall by 4% and unemployment will increase up to 26 million.
The world and the European Union should have done more, better and earlier with regard to regulating the financial markets.
Today it is vital that this Parliament ensures the adoption of this directive, thus sending a clear message to European citizens that things are changing and will continue to change, and that we are particularly concerned about them. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis has made it clear that the financial market framework of the European Union must be revised.
Negotiations are being conducted on the basis of a vote in committee, not in the normal first reading procedure but on the basis of an agreement reached between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
The securitisation market and the financial market crisis arose not least because financial market products without own risk were created.
The proposal is for a 5% retention.
I am certain that the Council, if it accepts all the other things, will have to consider this 10% retention.
This is a step towards strong European supervision of the financial markets that have developed far beyond national borders.
The other dossier on the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD) is not, in my view, a good example of better regulation under the Lamfalussy process that we have developed in the 10 years I have been active.
I hope that, at the end of the year when there will be a fuller review of the CRD, the Lamfalussy process will also be taken properly into account.
I want to express my appreciation to my colleagues in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for their cooperation over these 10 years.
Creating colleges of supervisors for cross-border groups and making the role of the Committee of European Banking Supervisors more robust are moves towards more fully integrated European supervision. (LT) I would also like to thank my colleagues for five excellent years of cooperation, although I have to say that there are still unsolved questions for the next legislative term.
Until we have the answer, we cannot say that we have strong and well prepared regulation of the financial sector. - (CS) Mr President, I firmly believe that the measures we are debating here should also be of a preventive nature, since the situation is very grave.
Mrs Bowles made a pretty strong contribution in this regard.
I accept what Mrs Bowles said: that in future a holding of whatever percentage will attract a capital charge.
I will not be here - but many of you will - but, whatever the end is, that will be the inevitable outcome of this particular financial crisis - not immediately, not maybe in the medium term, but in the longer term that will be a certainty.
Various amendments have been put forward during the Council of Ministers stage and with the European Parliament about different 'outs' on one thing and another, which my officials, at my request, are very, very strongly against, because I strongly believe in the very simple proposition that 5% of something is better than 55% of zero.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank you for your support and for the signal we are sending to savers, businesses, banks and the world of finance.
There is nothing that was said here today that did not also play a role in the agreement presented - in some cases not a very strong role - but everything played a role.
It is therefore absolutely clear that this is an important step forward, but it is not the final step, because we are announcing, giving notice of and promoting further steps in this agreement and specifying the direction for this debate.
But I believe that it is important that we send a clear signal now, in this legislative period, that we are competent, that we wish to create trust, security and stability, that we can react quickly and that we know what still needs to be done in the future.
However, I would like to say once again very clearly that the world, including our partners in the United States, China and other places, is watching the European Union, the Council, the Commission and Parliament to see how we will react to the crisis.
It has been fun working with you all, and I should once again like to thank my fellow Members, the Commission and the Council - I have already said that - for their cooperation.
It is also important for the elections to be held in Germany on 7 June and elsewhere from 4 to 7 June that people's attention is drawn to just how important our work is.
The vote will take place today, Wednesday 6 May 2009.
Written statements (Rule 142) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by amending the directives on credit institutions, their own funds, large exposures, supervisory arrangements, and crisis management, the European Union is moving towards a general realignment of the entire system.
Within the Council all the Member States voted to keep a threshold of 5%.
In the sitting of 24 April, in my absence during the vote HansPeter Martin claimed that a vote was illegally cast with a voting card from my seat by an unauthorised person.
The Court has overturned the decision taken by this House on 24 May not to confirm my mandate following the proclamation by the national authorities, and the European Parliament has been ordered to pay costs.
Madam President, I would have preferred the European Parliament to have been spared this heavy legal defeat, and, in spite of everything, I offer my sincere regards to you and my fellow Members.
Thank you, Mr Donnici.
