Challenges to collective agreements in the EU (debate) The next item is the report by Jan Andersson, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on challenges to collective agreements in the EU.
rapporteur. - (SV) Madam President, I hope the Commission comes soon.
The report also deals with the principle of equal treatment, that is to say equal treatment and the absence of discrimination against workers, irrespective of nationality.
In any one labour market, for example in the labour market in the German state of Lower Saxony, the conditions applying there should cover all workers, irrespective of where they come from.
The second important point is that we have different labour market models.
It is enormously important to have such a debate, as it would clarify the legal position and finally enable the Member States to introduce adequate legal arrangements.
The Commission organised on 9 October 2008 a forum on this theme, in which all of the interested parties participated.
The Commission agrees that the increased mobility of workers in Europe has brought with it new challenges, since it involves the functioning of the labour markets and the regulation of employment conditions.
The Commission believes that the social partners are best placed to rise to the challenge and to propose possible improvements.
Therefore, the Commission has invited the European social partners to examine the consequences of increased mobility in Europe and the judgments of the European Court of Justice.
The Commission will support their work as required.
The Commission cannot agree to the proposal for the Posting of Workers Directive also to include a reference to free movement.
I would emphasise that there is obviously a difference between posted workers and migrant workers.
In this context may I remind you that in April 2008 the Commission accepted the recommendation for greater administrative cooperation called for by the Member States in order to put right the current shortcomings.
The Commission also supports greater cooperation through its plan to establish in the future a committee of experts from the Member States.
I can appreciate that the rulings by the European Court of Justice may not have been welcomed by some of the Member States.
The main problem regarding proper implementation of this directive is its incorrect interpretation by the Member States.
Secondly, pursuant to the Court's explanations, Member States may not introduce minimum standards in areas other than those mentioned in Directive 96/71/EC on the posting of workers.
The European Court of Justice considered these few cases.
The only potential problem relates to its implementation in individual Member States.
Secondly, the directive does not make it impossible to enter into more favourable arrangements than the minimum conditions of work through collective agreements.
But, Commissioner, we cannot discharge our duty as legislator until you exercise your right of initiative.
This includes all of the main political groups and brings me into contact with many trade unionists - not only in Brussels and Strasbourg, but out in the regions - and I can tell you that there is widespread and spreading anxiety because of the imbalance thrown up by these judgments.
If trade unionists out there decide that Europe is part of the problem, instead of part of the solution, that could be very damaging for all sections of this House and for the democratic process itself.
I am glad to hear you say that you think the Posting of Workers Directive needs improvement, because one of the things we want is a revision of that directive to at least make it clear how collective agreements can be used to put minimum terms and conditions in place and to say how collective action can be used to protect those rights.
Let me be clear, Parliament does not question or criticise the Court's judgments per se; they are always legitimate, but it seeks to respond to the questions of interpretation of the Posting of Workers Directive posed in part by these judgments.
It is wrong to suppose that this response hides misgivings about certain fundamental freedoms such as the freedom to provide cross-border services; we intend to safeguard this freedom in full, just as we intend to safeguard the principle of healthy and transparent competition.
No matter how much one quibbles over interpretation, this principle is based on a single truth: there should be no difference in treatment between workers, in terms of the country in which the services are provided, whether they are posted or mobile workers, and whatever their nationality.
I cannot hide the fact - which of course is well known - that, in at least one case, the Commission provided a leg up.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, I have noted with regret that all too often economic rights are given priority over fundamental rights and freedoms.
This was particularly true of the rulings by the European Court of Justice in the Laval, Viking, and other cases.
It is important to establish the correct order of importance of these rights and to take account of the fact that human beings are more important than money.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (GA) Madam President, over the years workers and trade unions have put their trust in the European Union to improve and protect their working conditions.
Workers across Europe have a right to decent work, to equality for all workers.
You cannot, then, introduce a model of flexibility in the European labour market and, at the same time, implement legislation or accept judgments that make it difficult for the trade unions to implement and maintain a system based on collective agreements.
He was sympathetic to the different views within the committee, and this means, Mr Špidla, that there is no requirement in report to tear up or redraft the Posting of Workers Directive.
To emphasise this point I would like to quote in English: I will quote the English text of paragraph 27: 'Welcomes the Commission's indication that it is now ready to re-examine the impact of the internal market on labour rights and collective bargaining'; and: 'Suggests that this re-examination should not exclude a partial review of the PWD' - meaning 'not exclude'. (SV) Madam President, this means that there is no need for an amendment.
However, a review by the Commission of how this works in practice in the various Member States is welcomed.
I wanted to say this because the Posting of Workers Directive plays a very important role.
It is important to remember this as we continue the debate. (HU) Thank you, Madam President.
True, the EU rules grant a temporary competitive edge to service providers in new Member States.
On the other hand, the free circulation of goods and capital has created favourable market conditions for the more developed Member States.
Therefore our first task is not to rewrite legislation and oppose court rulings but to implement the existing regulations in a consistent and effective manner.
Thank you, Madam President. (SV) Madam President, thank you, Mr Andersson, for an important report.
Please see proposals 14 and 15 from the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
It is precisely the reverse.
This cannot reasonably be in the interests of the Swedish trade unions. (LV) Thank you, Madam President and Mr Špidla.
We do not need to make amendments to the Posting of Workers Directive in order to apply it to the social welfare systems of a few Member States.
The European Union's fundamental duty is to ensure that businesses from the old and the new Member States have equal rights of operation in the internal market in services.
Confidence in the social cohesion of the European Union can be achieved only if fundamental social rights are defined as primary European law.
We should send the Council, the Commission, the Member States and the European Court of Justice a stronger signal, and not content ourselves with just calling for a balance between fundamental rights and the freedoms of movement of the internal market.
Like liberties, fundamental social rights are human rights, and must not be curtailed as a result of internal market freedoms of movement.
It is time that the Posting of Workers Directive was amended such as to prevent requirements on wages and on minimum standards being limited to minimum requirements. (SV) Madam President, one of Mr Andersson's foremost conclusions is that the labour market should be safeguarded by amending the European Posting of Workers Directive.
The Laval ruling is the result of the EU Social Democrats and right of centre politicians having said 'yes' to amendments to the EU Treaty, thereby giving the EU and European Court of Justice even more power over labour market policy.
The freedom to provide services or the freedom of establishment, the nationality of the employer, of employees or of posted workers cannot serve as a justification for inequalities concerning working conditions, pay or the exercise of fundamental rights such as the workers' right to take collective action. (DA) Madam President, the point I want to make is, stop attacking the European Court of Justice and the Posting of Workers Directive.
What is needed is better implementation of the directive in practice. - (PL) Madam President, in a few months' time we shall once again turn to the citizens of the European Union and ask them to choose their representatives at the European Parliament.
Today's debate on the Posting of Workers Directive and the ruling by the European Court of Justice demonstrates that one of the purposes the European Parliament serves is to protect the citizens against certain policies advocated by their own governments.
Currently, the European Parliament and the European Court of Justice are giving priority to defending labour rights over defending the freedom of entrepreneurship.
We all have to pay the same prices in the shops and we call for equal pay for equal work across the entire Union. (DE) Madam President, one of the accomplishments of the European Parliament that has attracted the most attention is the amendment of the 'Bolkestein Directive' by replacing the country of origin principle with the principle of freedom to provide services.
This is the necessary balance between safeguarding freedom of movement and protecting workers.
We need to say a clear 'no' to any kind of social dumping and a clear 'no' to attempts to create 'letterbox companies' intended to avoid minimum standards for pay and working conditions.
Only when there is fair play in the European Union can we obtain the urgently needed endorsement by companies and SMEs of the concept of the social market economy. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the valued characteristics of this parliament is its success in achieving consistent positions.
The report on collective agreements strikes a blow at these judgments and also at the compromise reached in the debate on the Services Directive in the European Parliament.
Entrepreneurs have a right to provide services across borders under the terms and conditions of the current directive and I agree that there is a need to ensure that people, in other words employees, are generally aware of this. (HU) The bogeyman of the Polish plumber has now been replaced by the menacing shadow of the Latvian construction worker.
The re-emerging unseemly debate has caused a great deal of harm to the entire EU.
I appeal to you that when you talk about equal treatment - this is another aspect of this matter -, let there be equal treatment for new and old members alike.
In paragraph 33 it reaffirms that fundamental social rights are not subordinate to economic rights in a hierarchy of fundamental freedoms, and later in the report it emphasises that the freedom to provide services does not contradict and is not in any way superior to the fundamental right to strike.
This report deals primarily with the principles of the internal market, but it calls for equal treatment and equal pay for equal work, and that has to be our guiding principle here today.
People may think they have solved the problem, but any solution is actually due to a decision by the European Court of Justice.
We must also make clear, however - and certain countries with lower standards will soon understand this, as their standards will be raised - that freedom of movement must not result in a kind of competition becoming the norm that involves dispensing with the social standards that have evolved.
If a job is done in one country, the same pay should be received for the same work.
The Treaty of Lisbon sets out a number of principles, including the right to negotiate collective agreements.
Let us ensure that this principle is respected by the European Union and by all the Member States. (PT) Madam President, it is not enough to criticise the unacceptable positions adopted in the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, which represent a serious attack on the most fundamental rights of workers.
The rejections in the referenda of the so-called European Constitution and the draft Treaty of Lisbon are clear proof of popular discontent with this European Union which devalues workers and fails to respect their dignity.
To start with, the rulings from the court in Luxembourg has not weakened or attacked fundamental rights.
I would also like to state that the court in Luxembourg, apart from anything else, was the first to declare through its jurisprudence, that the right to strike was a fundamental right.
This had never previously been formulated in jurisprudence or in our legal system.
I would also like to respond to the notion often voiced in the debate that the question of posted workers is a matter which divides the old Member States from the new ones.
I would also like to state that in the debate which was opened at the workshop, most of the Member States to which the rulings in the case of Laval, Rüffert applied did not take the view that we should amend the directive.
I would like to mention Denmark and Luxembourg, and I would also like to state that, according to information I have received from Sweden, a very important decision is due to be taken there within about fifteen days, a decision which has been discussed in great depth and detail by the social partners and the government.
There is much work still to be done but allow me to state and to emphasise that the importance of the social partners in this area is vital.
In the report, we say that we, and the Commission, should take action.
Freedom of movement - yes, but good social conditions and no social dumping.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 21 October 2008.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (DA) Mobility in the European labour market must be increased.
There must therefore be more focus on equal treatment and non-discrimination.
The right to strike must not be subject to the rules governing the internal market.
The Commission itself stated in April this year that the fundamental right to strike and to join a trade union does not override the right to provide services.
It is vital that this report does not mark the end of the debate.
in writing. - (RO) I would like to make a clarification.
Some costs are even higher in Romania than in other areas, but the bills need to be paid here too.
Responsibility for creating this precarious situation on the labour market and for making working conditions worse in the European Union does not lie with the workers, but with those exerting the maximum pressure possible in order to abolish the existing guarantees under labour law, with a single objective in mind: to maximise profits by any means, including through sacrificing all the values and principles which we regard as the shared benefits gained by Europe's societies.
It is our duty in this case to protect the entitlement of workers from Eastern Europe to enjoy a fundamental right: equal pay for equal work.
Socialists and trade-unions, primarily, need to avoid creating a false, artificial division within the group of those who can achieve these rights only if they maintain solidarity.
in writing. - (ET) Workers' freedom of movement is one of the four freedoms of the internal market.
Since equal treatment is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union the free movement of workers should take place on equal terms.
The widespread principle that foreign workers are paid less than the citizens of the host country is not in accordance with that principle.
It is very difficult to explain the impossibility of change to people from new Member States, considering that Estonia, for instance, was able to implement the entire acquis communautaire in less than six years.
in writing. - (ET) The spontaneous report under discussion is unbalanced and has protectionist leanings.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that none of the above-mentioned judgments involve the content of any collective agreements that could be signed in Member States or the right to conclude such agreements.
