Both Bulgaria and Romania had previously concluded agreements on air services with Morocco, in 1966 and 1971 respectively.
We regret the fact that this wording was not used in the agreements with the Republic of Moldova and recommend the use of this neutral wording in the official documents regarding the EU relationship with the Republic of Moldova.
This problem has been known about for some considerable time but the unwillingness of the Russian authorities to renegotiate with the EU on this issue has been both expensive and unhelpful.
in writing. - The common organisation of the market in fisheries products is intended to ensure stability in the market and security of income for those involved in the sector.
in writing. - (SV) I voted against the report because it deals with provisions for the common agricultural policy, which we want to abolish.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the van den Burg report on VAT.
in writing. - (FR) The Commission can never get it right on the subject of VAT.
In the 1980s the Cockfield Report called for a range of VAT rates.
Then the European Commission wanted VAT at the rate applied by the country of origin.
In practice VAT was levied at the rate applied by the country of destination.
What a shame it did not realise in 1993 that with no border controls intra-Community VAT was an inexhaustible source of large-scale fraud.
The others are Clean Sky, ENIAC and Innovative Medicine.
This method of financing will at last provide access to the required resources and thereby create a favourable environment for research in the European Union and increase its competitiveness.
in writing. - (FR) In my capacity as rapporteur I am very pleased with the adoption of this report on setting up an Innovative Medicines Initiative Joint Undertaking (IMI).
Implementation of this public/private partnership between the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries' Associations (EFPIA) and the European Commission represents a major promising step forward for large-scale research programmes.
The European Commission is duty bound to consider European needs from another angle.
The IMI will have a total budget of EUR 2 billion between 2008 and 2013.
The European Commission's contribution of EUR 1 billion will be disbursed to SMEs and universities.
in writing. - (PL) The subject of innovative medicines is particularly close to my heart, because I am actively involved in Poland with helping children suffering from rare genetic diseases.
in writing. - (ES) The Spanish Socialist Delegation voted in favour of the Ek report on the creation of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking, but I wish to make it clear that the basic principles of openness and transparency must be strictly observed in all Joint Technology Initiatives.
in writing. - (PT) As European citizens, we enjoy a series of rights, including the right to diplomatic and consular protection.
This issue is even more relevant if we consider that there are only three countries - China, Russia and the US - where all the EU Member States have diplomatic and consular representation.
I support this initiative which aims to ensure that the provisions of Article 20 of the EC Treaty and Article 46 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights can be effectively used in practice, by laying the foundations for a genuine harmonised fundamental right to diplomatic and consular protection for all EU citizens, regardless of their nationality.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Varvitsiotis report, which seeks to enhance diplomatic and consular protection for EU citizens living or travelling in countries in which their home Member State does not have representation.
in writing. - (PL) There are only three countries in the world where all European Union Member States have diplomatic and consular representation, namely China, the United States and Russia.
in writing. - (PL) I abstained in the vote on diplomatic and consular protection for citizens of European Union Member States.
in writing. - (PT) This seventh Amending Budget for the year 2007 includes a further EUR 4 324.8 million in revenue and also a decrease of EUR 1 651.4 million in expenditure, thus allowing the Member States to reduce their contributions to the Community budget by around EUR 5 976.2 million.
It is noted that the amounts forecast in the 2008 Budget for these headings are within those agreed in the Multiannual Financial Framework 2007-2013.
The non-implementation of these amounts in the Community budget is very worrying and should be very closely monitored given that 2007 is the first year of the new financial framework 2007-2013 and that Rule N+2 is still being applied in relation to the previous financial framework within which the appropriations must be fully used by 2008.
in writing. - (CS) We are now confronted with a serious problem of trying to control the immense volume of imported goods, mainly from Asia.
I would like to point out that we also need a system capable of intercepting goods which do not conform to the European safety standard and preventing such goods from entering the EU.
The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council leaves implementation of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive to the Member States, having drawn up an integrated framework for marine policy in the Baltic Region.
Nine countries in the Baltic Region are EU Member States and there is only one third country - Russia.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of Mrs Lienemann's recommendation for second reading on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Framework for Community Action in the field of Marine Environmental Policy (Marine Strategy Framework Directive).
in writing. - (PT) Today we adopted the recommendation for second reading on the common position establishing a Framework for Community Action in the field of Marine Environmental Policy.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against this report, which encourages the Member States to take the necessary measures towards 'good environmental status' in marine affairs by 2020.
The marine environment hosts vital resources and its ecosystem provides essential services such as climate regulation and oxygen production.
in writing. - I was able to support the compromise package reached across this house on the Lienemann report on the marine environment.
I therefore recognise that the EU has a valuable role to play in marine environmental policy but also believe that the needs and views of individual maritime communities must be factored into the equation. (PL) Madam President, I voted in favour of this report as a representative of one of the eight countries most directly concerned and fully aware of what is involved.
I consider this to be a step in a very positive direction as regards protecting the environment in my country in general and in Silesia in particular. (CS) (The beginning of the speech was inaudible) ...and cleaner air for Europe is a very good example of the way the Union works.
The joint undertaking is based on Article 251 of the EC Treaty.
In Europe, 360 000 people die ten years early due to air pollution.
in writing. - (PT) The natural resource of 'air' is every day becoming increasingly polluted, mainly in urban centres and regions of EU Member States with the highest population densities.
in writing. - I supported the compromise package reached by the various political groups on the Krahmer report on air quality.
The compromise package will introduce monitoring obligations in relation to certain fine particles and, hopefully, marks a step in the right direction in improving the quality of air and, accordingly, the quality of life for European citizens.
in writing. - I voted for this report not because I believe it makes the major step forward we need in tackling air quality, but because it is at least some advance, despite the attempt of some in Parliament to weaken this protection.
It would be wiser to wait for the evaluation date of 2013 before setting later targets.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the Ortuondo Larrea report on the recast of the Interoperability Directive, for interoperability is the key to revamping our European railway system.
in writing. - (PT) The report on which we have voted today on the interoperability of the Community rail system is most important as an incentive for investment in rail transport and is vital for creating genuine freedom of movement in the European territory.
in writing. - (SV) We voted for the Commission's proposal for a directive.
