Oral explanations of vote Madam President, this report was about the rights of people with disabilities, and I wanted to put on record and acknowledge the work done by Richard Howitt, a Labour Member of this House, in his fight for people with disabilities.
In the battle for better energy conservation and more efficient energy use, I think we all want to see more energy-efficient products.
The European Parliament has three buildings - two Parliament buildings and one administrative building - one in Brussels, one in Strasbourg and one in Luxembourg.
I think we all agree that we need to tackle tax evasion, but at the same time we need to understand that, in the case of those entrepreneurs who work hard, who create jobs and wealth for others and then are taxed heavily for doing so, it is quite understandable when they legally want to transfer their money to lower-tax regimes.
I think we all agree that we need to fight fraud, but let us not crack down on legal transfers of money.
I think we all agree, at the moment, that we are all members of the European Union and we should abide by Community law, because we have been through the due process, the debates and legal processes.
Therefore, we need better monitoring - I think we all agree - of the application of Community law.
Written explanations of vote I voted for the European Parliament resolution on women's rights in Afghanistan, because I believe that the new draft law on the personal status of Shiite women is unacceptable.
On the contrary, the situation in Camp Ashraf is in the public domain and numerous people, including members of parliament and journalists, have visited the camp and drawn their own conclusions.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, I voted in favour of the report.
Of special importance, with a view to promoting social inclusion, are Articles 24, 27 and 28 on subjects connected with education, employment and social protection.
I voted in favour of adoption of the Jeleva report on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
in writing. - (EL) The Greek Communist Party did not vote for the report on the conclusion, by the EU, of the UN Convention and Protocol on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, because it considers that the EU is not entitled to sign and ratify such agreements with the UN on behalf of the 27 Member States.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, I voted in favour of the report.
We wish to make clear, however, our opposition to the creation of a European Public Prosecutor, and therefore the proposal contained in paragraph 57 of the report.
The disparate requirements of the 27 Member States will no longer apply.
The CE mark of conformity for batch production provides a sufficient guarantee that products conform to European standards.
in writing. - (IT) Thank you, Madam President.
I voted for the report.
The core subject-matter of Regulation (EC) No 2560/2001 is cross-border transfers and cross-border electronic payment operations.
The regulation was adopted on 19 December 2001 and its aim is to ensure that the cost of a cross-border payment is the same as a payment made within a Member State.
I voted for the Schnellhardt report on the regulation laying down health rules as regards animal by-products not intended for human consumption, as I consider that the proposals contained in this document will substantially improve the safety of these products, particularly by ensuring traceability throughout the treatment process.
I voted for this report because in Romania as well as in other Member States we are sometimes faced with crises which affect public and animal health safety in relation to animal products, such as transmissible spongiform encephalopathy, dioxin, swine fever and foot-and-mouth disease.
This report concerns the draft European Parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments.
in writing. - (SV) It is crucial that we tackle tax fraud within the Member States of the EU.
in writing. - The EPLP can support this report in terms of the wider perspective of Member State economic actions during the current economic crisis.
I voted for the report on nanomaterials as nanotechnologies promise fantastic results, particularly in energy and the development of biomedicine.
The other lesson of these times is that the only alternative to the market economy is a market economy that functions better.
in writing. - (NL) All in all, this resolution has been drafted in balanced terms.
Nevertheless, I voted against it because a 'yes' vote would imply that I support the Lisbon Treaty and the accession of all the Western Balkans countries.
in writing. - (EL) The PASOK parliamentary group in the European Parliament voted in favour of the report on the Western Balkans because it is an important report, in that it clearly underlines the European prospects of the Balkans, which is the standard view taken by PASOK.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against this report.
in writing. - (NL) Bosnia-Herzegovina is mainly inhabited by three peoples, none of whom are in the majority in that country.
in writing. - I supported the Beer report on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, including Amendments 5 and 8 that called for Europe to become a nuclear weapons free zone, because I am in favour of nuclear disarmament.
It is clear that the biggest threats come from two directions: nuclear weapons that are in the hands of undemocratic regimes which are answerable to no one and the irresponsible use of civilian nuclear resources.
in writing. - (IT) Committee on Legal Affairs.
