Recent developments in my own country give me no choice but to start with the topic of freedom, security and justice.
Allow me to react to those words in my national capacity.
Since the Second World War, we have received large groups of people from many countries – some because they were persecuted, others because they could build a better future with us and were welcome reinforcements on our labour market.
At the same time, integration also requires respect and compliance with the fundamental rules of our society: freedom of opinion, freedom of religion, and respect for the democratic rule of law, which must offer individuals the protection to which they are entitled.
Mr President, in your expression of support last Monday, you drew attention to the significance of recent events in the Netherlands for the whole of European society, and in that I agree with you.
The Netherlands is convinced that we must work together more effectively in fighting terrorism.
The fierce reactions and counter-reactions in the wake of the killing of Mr Van Gogh once again demonstrated that there is tension in the make-up of our society.
I will presently examine in more detail the multi-annual programme for Justice and Home Affairs, the Hague Programme, that provides for a deepening in both areas.
In addition, the Justice and Home Affairs ministers have asked to discuss the events in the Netherlands and to deliberate on European aspects of these with their colleagues in the Justice and Home Affairs Council next Friday.
Let me now return to my role of President-in-Office of the European Council and to the actual topic of this debate.
After all, asylum seekers and immigrants are entitled to know where they stand in Europe.
The Hague Programme builds on that of Tampere, which, in 1999, was the first programme to formulate cooperation in this area.
It is based on Member State contributions, the Commission evaluation of Tampere and the European Parliament’s recommendation of 14 October of this year, particularly in respect of decision-making methods.
The Hague Programme gives important new impulses.
The Union will make it easier for police, justice and intelligence services of the Member States to exchange information on the basis of the principle of availability of information.
Alongside this, we will work towards a common asylum system by 2010, in which the same procedures will be followed in all countries.
This will be effective on 1 April 2005.
Although there were compelling requests among a few Member States to make various allowances, eventually, these remained restricted to the exception of legal immigration.
All in all, it is an ambitious and realistic programme, in respect of which the European Commission will be presenting an action plan next year.
I am particularly pleased that agreement has now been reached among the Member States about the objectives and the way in which we want to achieve these.
The main feat of the Kok report is that it clearly demonstrates the relevance, if not, necessity, of the Lisbon strategy.
The world around us is changing because in addition to the US, there are economies, including China and India, which not only compete in terms of labour costs, but also increasingly so in terms of quality and innovation.
The Kok report thus clearly demonstrates that the Lisbon strategy must be pursued with force.
What struck me during that informative discussion was the unanimity about the need for reforms and about the need for good communication about this with the public and civil society.
It was gratifying in that respect that the future President of the new European Commission, Mr Barroso, also confirmed that he considers the Lisbon strategy to be at the centre of his policy and he personally will take responsibility for this in the Commission.
For example, it contains a suggestion for you to set up a permanent parliamentary committee that focuses on the Lisbon strategy and growth and employment.
The ratification of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe is an important occasion to further improve communication with the public.
Creating a truly open debate requires teamwork between the Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission.
We are looking forward to the announced communication strategy which will be tabled even before the European Council of June.
The European Council managed to reach agreement about a package of support measures for Iraq in the short term.
In this process, the elections play an important role.
I therefore set great store by Prime Minister Allawi’s communication that, despite persistent security problems, these elections will be taking place in January at the latest.
A second item of external policy on which the European Council expressed a view is Iran.
This brings me to the Middle East, where there seems to be another window of opportunity for the peace process.
The situation in Sudan remains extremely difficult.
Three weeks ago, the European Parliament held a debate with the Council about Ukraine.
I hope that the message which the European Council sent is being properly understood by the Ukrainian authorities.
A clear, positive and future-oriented view of Parliament is crucial in order to face the decision-making and implementation of the decisions with confidence.
Transparent and unequivocal agreements about the salary and other working conditions of the Members of your House avoid perceptions which undermine confidence in the institutions and the Union as a whole.
In this way, he is laying a strong foundation for cooperation between Parliament and the Commission.
From the Council’s point of view, the outcome is also positive.
The Council wants to set to work with Parliament and the Commission.
It also held an exchange of views on a topic of particular relevance to citizens: communication on Europe.
It heard a presentation on enlargement by the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, and adopted conclusions on a number of foreign policy issues, notably Sudan, Iraq, the Middle East and Iran.
Finally, the Heads of State and Government met the Prime Minister of Iraq, Mr Allawi, over lunch.
Also on that occasion, the President-designate of the Commission, Mr Barroso, presented an amended list for his team of Commissioners, to be approved by the Council and submitted to the European Parliament for a vote.
When he met the members of the European Council on 4 November, the President of the European Parliament, Mr Borrell, underlined the role played by the European Parliament in this process.
I shall briefly highlight the main points discussed at the European Council.
Concerning the Lisbon Strategy, the European Council confirmed the validity and relevance of the process it set in motion in 2000, aimed at enhancing the competitiveness of European economies through a balanced strategy with an economic, social and environmental dimension.
The European Council welcomed the presentation by Mr Wim Kok of the report of the high-level group he chaired.
On the basis of the Kok report, the Commission will prepare proposals for the European Council next March for the mid-term review of the Lisbon Strategy.
The President-designate, Mr Barroso, has already indicated that the Commission's key priority will be to promote a competitive Europe through more growth and jobs and that it will remain fully committed to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in all its components.
Concerning the area of freedom, security and justice, the European Council adopted an ambitious multiannual programme – the Hague Programme – that follows on from the Tampere Agenda, and that will guide the action of the Union in those areas over the next five years.
European citizens rightly expect that the EU, while guaranteeing respect for fundamental freedoms and rights, will take more effective joint action on cross-border problems such as illegal migration and trafficking in human beings, as well as on terrorism and organised crime.
The Hague Programme reflects the ambitions as expressed in the Constitutional Treaty.
It puts the emphasis on delivery and implementation; it takes account of the evaluation by the Commission of the Tampere Agenda, as well as of the recommendation on the use of qualified majority voting and the codecision procedure adopted by the European Parliament on 14 October 2004.
The Commission will present an action plan in 2005 to translate the aims and priorities of The Hague Programme into concrete actions.
Politicians at both national and international level have a responsibility to communicate the relevance of the European project, to involve Europeans through public debate and active citizenship in decision-making.
European institutions also have a role to play in this regard.
The Commission, for its part, intends to present a communication strategy in good time before the June 2005 European Council.
The ratification of the Constitution in all Member States will also represent an unprecedented opportunity for discussing European issues with our citizens.
On enlargement, at the European Council President Prodi presented the progress report, the strategy paper and recommendations, as well as the study of issues arising from Turkey's membership, produced by the Commission on 6 October.
The time has come to choose priorities and identify the most urgent problems affecting the co-existence of the Europeans and, above all, those which are going to affect its future.
Courage is what the future of this area of freedom and justice in the European Union is going to require.
Madrid, Beslan, the tragedies of the European hostages and last week’s events in the Netherlands confirm this.
The Hague Programme does not mention the necessary protection for the victims of terrorism, and I regret that the conclusions have not mentioned this Parliament’s request concerning the creation of the European Office for Assistance for Victims or the consolidation over the coming years of a political project, a political programme aimed in this direction.
Mr President, having seen the report on the mid-term review of Lisbon, the most important thing is that we are aware that we are seriously behind schedule.
The European Parliament must promote this Lisbon Process on the basis of three very simple and fundamental ideas: the first is that this Parliament must encourage governments to show signs of courage and to promote the necessary structural reforms, since more Union requires more Europe and more structural reforms; the second is to accept that employment is undoubtedly the best social policy, since more Union means more emphasis on job creation; and, finally, in order to implement Lisbon, the States need streamlined public finances, since more Union requires more budgetary stability demands and no more relaxation of finances amongst the European States as a whole.
The European Union and its citizens make demands where security policy is concerned, demands made of the Member States and of the EU, and with these demands we must comply.
A strong democracy has the right to be strong and to take vigorous action against its enemies.
In that, our group is always right alongside you.
The other is that the state, the Union, the forces of law and order that are there to defend fundamental democratic freedoms, cannot curtail these rights while at the same time claiming to be defending them.
When, though, I hear certain of the debates in the Council or in the Commission, when I hear speeches by unsuccessful candidates for the Commission, I sometimes get the impression that this has to be said with more energy.
This House’s debate on the subject, which begins on 1 April next year, will open the door to that, to our being able – and we are willing – as legislators to help bring about a situation in which, if we want to establish security, we cannot simply talk in terms of illegal people, but can establish a framework within which they can become legal.
On 4 and 5 November this year, the European Council laid down its priorities for the further development of the area of freedom, security and justice.
The character of our society will be determined not only by to what extent the European Union wants our 450 million citizens to be protected against the dangers of terrorism, among other things, or the degree to which it wants judicial cooperation to be organised in future practice, but also by joint action in the areas of asylum, immigration and integration.
We must not forget that the foundations we will be laying down over the coming five years will determine not only the futures of 450 million people, but also those of their children and grandchildren.
I would just like to take this opportunity not merely to remind you, but also perhaps to make you again aware, of the responsibility we all took on when we made the decision to be policymakers in this House.
And when my children ask me how I achieved that, I hope I will be able to tell them how we, the citizens’ directly elected representatives, would not stand for the interior ministers of a few countries joining together in what they called ‘G5’ and taking essential decisions without reference to Parliament.
I will tell them how we stamped out every form of traffic in human beings, which was slavery in a modern guise, combating it at every level and making it possible for people to enter Europe legally, and how we discharged our obligations to those who seek asylum, without making it easy for ourselves by shifting our responsibility to states beyond our borders and without our laws.
If we reduce the Lisbon Agenda to the sphere of competition we are selling ourselves short and will not solve many of the problems facing our societies.
We have totally forgotten the Cardiff Process on integration of the environment into all the processes and policies of the European Union.
The implementation of legislation on anti-discrimination deals with issues surrounding the marginalisation of many in our societies, and also deals with some of the issues people have talked about this morning, in terms of respect for individuals and for what they can offer.
When looking at the Hague Programme itself, one of the things not to have come through strongly enough is political leadership on issues concerning anti-discrimination.
However, I regret that legal migration has not been included because, as the Council conclusions state, and as we have again heard this morning, illegal migration cannot be separated from legal migration.
My group takes a critical view of the Lisbon strategy to date, and we do so not because it aims for more and better, not because it demands social cohesion and sustainability; we take a critical view of it because this Lisbon strategy makes the world’s problems even worse.
The message that now goes out from the Council meeting in Brussels and also from the conferences held under the presidency of the Netherlands is that the creation of more meaningful jobs that actually pay a living wage, the strengthening of social cohesion, and the rational use of the natural world, now take second place to the competitiveness of conglomerates and to the EU’s ability to compete as a global player.
Rather than hearing of how political priorities have been responsibly adjusted for the sake of social, environmental and global sustainability and seeing proposals submitted for consideration by the Spring 2005 Council, we now hear that, firstly, Europe is to be made more competitive, labour markets to be made more dynamic, and that the social security systems are to be adapted to meet the challenges presented by the need for competitiveness and by population change.
I therefore take the same view of it as the European Anti-Poverty Network and am more than willing to discuss these proposals for something like a social policy agenda for the years from 2006 to 2010.
In these difficult circumstances, leadership is indispensable.
What is positive is that this need also appears to exist in society.
Since 2001, we in this House have had many a debate on the question why this strategy has not had the desired effect.
This Parliament has restricted powers in the process of Lisbon, and in the open coordination method, it is in any event difficult to make the Union’s role concrete.
Despite this, we will need to adopt a sustainability strategy if we want to maintain our level of prosperity and welfare for future generations in the longer term.
The second reason for poor economic growth is that our societies are ageing extremely rapidly indeed.
Such areas include family law, for the simple reason that radically different opinions on the family are held within Europe.
It would be a serious error to think that it might be possible to use European law to ensure that homosexual relationships are legally recognised in countries that have not agreed to such an experiment.
The crisis we are witnessing within the pro-Western and pro-European forces in Ukraine would presumably not have come about had our neighbourhood policy been more courageous in political terms, more generous in economic terms, and above all, more open to the accession of countries such as Ukraine to the EU. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr President, Mr&#160;Balkenende, ladies and gentlemen, in Communist times the authorities said the ideology was good and the people were bad because they did not wish to put it into practice.
Fine words can, and alas sometimes are, put into practice in a way that is far from fine.
After those words of criticism, I should like to commend the Council for having finally recognised the importance of the demographic factor, and the authors of the resolution for having asked the Council that ‘action to deal with the consequences of the ageing of the population of Europe be considered a policy priority’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at present, the Netherlands is in despair, because we are more than ever compelled to reconsider the questions, not only of the balance between freedom and tolerance, but also of how to set boundaries in order to guarantee safety.
I wholly concur with Mr Blokland’s congratulations addressed to Prime Minister Balkenende on the way in which he is taking charge, and giving direction in channelling the feeling of our population towards a more tolerant society in which people respect one another.
I do share the views of Mr Oreja, who stated a moment ago that what matters now is to take concrete action, and to give priorities to concrete action points in the short term.
It is unacceptable to me that, following the attacks in New York and Madrid, we hear the Justice and Home Affairs Council say that we will now automatically start exchanging information about possible attacks without delay.
Finally, communication in Europe is also an important item.
I am interested to see how far you will take this point. &#160;&#160; The Council has received the Kok report on revision of the Lisbon strategy.
Yet we must continue to discuss the links between these dimensions and the conditions required for sustainable growth in Europe.
If we carry on down this path, there will soon be little left over of the European model, of its uniqueness, its strengths and its advantages, which lie not in a downward adjustment towards the social level of some of our new international competitors – and here I have China and India in mind – but in competition to achieve excellence, quality, top-of-the-range products and innovation.
This is why we are sure that investments in human capital, in a high standard of lifelong employee training, in quality of public services, in European environmental standards and in good social dialogue are all productive factors, competitive factors and prerequisites for ensuring that reforms are adopted as and when they are needed.
We want growth and jobs to be a priority, and I believe that this also involves better links between all European policy instruments, or in other words a reform of the Stability and Growth Pact to ensure that it has tighter links with the broad outlines of economic policy, the new financial perspective and, indeed, the revised Lisbon objectives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to start with the Lisbon process.
I think that Mr Kok’s report is very welcome and that it identifies where things are wrong.
I should like to hear from the EU Presidency what it intends to do about this.
Secondly, I should like to comment on the Hague Programme.
Human lives, our democracy and social cohesion are at stake.
Finally, alongside this unilateral approach towards repression and terrorism, we should also consider the other side of these phenomena.
And I should like to conclude by drawing your attention to the tone of this debate which contributes greatly to the solution of this problem. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this debate represents a really crucial stage in the development of the European Union.
We have put such emphasis on the Lisbon Strategy and, like Mrs Lambert, I welcome the Council's recognition that there has to be a real balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions.
I also welcome the emphasis that was put on communication in this meeting.
Within the European Free Alliance parties we have different positions on the Constitution, but we all agree with the urgency of improving the relationship and communication between the EU and the peoples of Europe.
Elections must be Europe’s priority in Palestine, however.
Europe must tell Israel that what is required is a return to political dialogue and a respite from hostilities – no suicide bombs, on the one side, no collective punishment or selective executions, on the other.
We will shortly have the opportunity to say 'No' to the EU Constitution and I mean any European Constitution, because the gap between Euro-rhetoric and reality has never been wider.
I could produce 25 other examples, the most important being the common asylum system, which will be introduced in 2005, with coordination in place by the end of that year.
Britain will vote 'No' in the referendum by a massive majority, and will show you what 'No' means. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the coordination of the economies of Europe is vital for the development of the EU.
The European Union must complete the internal market, improve the European regulatory environment and make the whole European Union less complicated.
The European Union leaders have set the goal that the EU must become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010.
The internal market has helped to create 2.5 million jobs in Europe over the last 10 years alone.
That does not mean more regulation; as a matter of fact it means less.
We must improve our methodology.
I have seen proof of this, and also proof that Mrs Kroes grossly, persistently and deliberately misled her hearing.
Assuming that it survives tomorrow, the Council and Mr Barroso should know that his team of Commissioners is unlikely to survive intact for long. &#160;&#160; Mr President, while I should like to devote the time that is allotted to me to the Lisbon agenda, I would also like to make one comment beforehand.
Unfortunately, these have remained virtually unnoticed in the Netherlands amidst the commotion and unrest in recent weeks.
I would nevertheless like to say that it is thanks to Mr Donner, and to the many sound agreements in the area of home affairs, security and justice, that we are one step closer again to freedom for our citizens.
I could not agree more – and the Dutch Presidency has certainly played a part in this – that the three pillars of the strategy, namely economic reforms, social cohesion and sustainability, remain the guiding principle for the Lisbon process in terms of balance and coherence.
Economic improvement, incidentally, is not a goal in itself, but a necessary condition if we want to retain for generations to come the European social model that was built on solidarity between the working population and those entitled to benefits, between the young and the old.
The presidency was also successful in another area.
That is an example that deserves to be followed by other parliaments.
Finally, Lisbon.
Parliament is happy to lend a hand in this respect. &#160;&#160; It is hard to accept that of all the founding ideals and principles that hold together the European Union, there remain shortcomings even today regarding the implementation of human rights, and that fundamental human rights are being infringed.
Therefore, after the two examples of Tampere and Lisbon, we should be thankful to the Dutch presidency for the Hague Programme and their examination of these questions in their social context.
Because today the strategic programme for competitiveness and social cohesion also sends us messages concerning human rights.
It is very important for Europe now, under the leadership of the Council and the Commission always acting together, to manage at least two very important concerns.
We must stop thinking about the past and all that has happened in the last four years and must now look to the future in a creative and pragmatic way in order to do our best to solve the different problems on the international agenda.
Our strength will be based only on our unity.
Some Members have expressed reservations with regard to legal immigration, but I should like to ask more detailed questions on the external dimension of asylum and immigration policies, something that is acquiring an ever greater significance.
The question we are therefore asking ourselves is whether this does not represent both a violation of this House’s democratic powers and a relinquishing of the duties incumbent upon this House and the EU in the field of asylum and immigration, with these duties being handed over to third countries whose capacities are a great deal less developed than our own. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate that President-in-Office Balkenende should have begun with the dramatic events in the Netherlands, which have disturbed that tolerant country.
The fact is, the issues of organised crime, terrorism, trafficking in human beings and immigration cannot all be thrown into one big pot, as if they all constituted a single problem.
That is not what was done by your deputy, Mr Balkenende, who the day after the murder of Mr Van Gogh declared war on Islam, or what your country does in financing faith schools.
What it means is that by resorting to a qualified majority, the European Union will be able to force a country to accept asylum seekers, even if that country does not wish to do so.
By resorting to a qualified majority, the European Union may decide, for example, that my country, Poland, is ethnically too homogenous, and that it should be sent some Asian or African asylum seekers, as there are already too many of these in other Member States.
Countries accept immigrants because of their proximity to various neighbouring countries, their former colonial policies or their labour market requirements, and each country must make its own decisions on whether it is prepared to grant asylum and, if so, to whom.
It is also for each country to decide on who should be allowed to immigrate.
The Constitutional Treaty will be rejected in the referendums, and yet the Council of the European Union is already forcing us to implement one of its most controversial ideas.
In spite of the fact that all the key documents concerning equality have in their preamble equality between men and women, I&#160;regard it as a&#160;disgrace to the 21st century and all strategies that the Council you lead was composed (particularly in November) of 25 men and two invited guests, messieurs Chirac and Schröder.
You have not succeeded in adopting the Statute for Members of the European Parliament, thereby perpetuating the virtual division of Europe and discrimination within this body as well.
The most valuable people are leaving Europe and are directly assisting our competitors in other countries.
We are therefore waiting for the European Commission's proposals in the run up to the interim review of the Lisbon strategy with great interest.
This interim review, which will be carried out at the spring European Council, will be a good opportunity for honest evaluation and intervention on our part, in cooperation with the Member States, the national governments and social agencies at all levels, because this strategy lies at the heart of all present and future economic and social challenges.
An important tool in our work on this interim review and the new impetus which we need to give will be the report by Mr Wim Kok.
This issue relates directly to the broader presentation of the Commission to citizens and it is important and encouraging that the European Council in November turned its attention to the subject of an essential information and communication strategy policy for the policy of the European Union.
The time has come for us to understand that the communication and information policies which we applied every year in the past did not perform well.
We therefore call for the Union to play its part in the Sharm el Sheikh conference on 23 November and to make its weight felt, in the light of the unity we have attained, in insisting on full acceptance by all sides of UN Resolution 1546, based on respect for international law and human rights.
The result of the US elections and the replacement of Colin Powell may give even greater encouragement to the extremists, both in Iraq and in the Middle East.
As far as the Middle East is concerned, I am less optimistic, as it does not seem that Mr Sharon has conceded more to Abu Mazen during the period of his Prime Ministership than he conceded to Yasser Arafat.
That would make it possible to replace, I repeat replace, the unilateral actions of the Sharon government with honest and proper negotiations, which, by resolving the more controversial issues, such as the settlements and the right of return, would lead to the birth of the Palestinian state and the coexistence of the two peoples. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these Decisions of the European Council come at a time of delicate transition for the institutional life of the Union, following the historic signing of the Constitutional Treaty in Rome and in the excitement of a new interinstitutional dialectic, emanating from Parliament’s refusal to vote in the new Commission.
The text of the Council’s conclusions finds a Parliament that is more aware of the new era of parliamentary democracy that has opened in Europe and deserves some reflection.
Following a legal comedy that lasted four years, the Court of Cassation outlawed our party – which is the largest opposition party – after a political centre for the fight against racism, at the request of the Prime Minister, and with public money, instituted legal proceedings against it on account of what was purely the offence of giving an opinion.
I also agree with the findings of the Kok report on the feeble level of implementation on the part of the Member States.
I am not talking about the problems of distant galaxies, but about a key project of the Union which would bring about the most dynamic and competitive economy by the year 2010, together with a balanced respect for the social and environmental aspects of development.
It would appear that at times of crisis everyone thinks of themselves first, but the history of the Union tells us that it has made progress in the past when it has acted in a spirit of solidarity and with a collective will.
What is important is the simultaneous action of the key players on all the important fronts and at all levels.
Even if growth and employment take centre stage, objectives in the social and environmental areas should in no way be made subordinate.
It is unfortunate that the mandate of the High-Level Group to develop a consistent strategy in a bid to achieve the Lisbon objectives does not focus more on common macro-economic policy at European level.
It is evident that making the Lisbon strategy more effective depends, first and foremost, on the willingness of the Member States to work truly at EU level.
In my view, we are heading for a change from mutual competition among the Member States towards a focus on stronger, common, European strategy.
In that light, we should therefore not only consider the balance of revenue and expenditure of Member States in the framework of the Stability Pact, but, as Commissioner Almunia said in the on Monday, we should also consider the quality of public finances.
The Council, the Commission, national parliaments and the European Parliament should all join in the discussion about national budget policy.
The economic policy could then be more than the sum of the 25 constituent parts.
That is the challenge we are facing. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the Council for having turned its attention to Ukraine, the EU’s largest neighbour to the East.
The Council is to be commended for highlighting the irregularities that occurred during the first round of voting, but I do not believe it has gone far enough in highlighting what is really happening in Ukraine.
It is essential to boost the hopes of the people of Ukraine and open the door to their European ambitions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is perhaps a sign that I am speaking on the Lisbon strategy when the member of the Commission with responsibility for development aid is present.
What Europe achieves is frustrated in the Council, and what ought to be done by the nation states does not get done.
Apart from that, I hope that the presence of the Commissioner with responsibility for development aid is not an indication of the direction in which Europe will be drifting in future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are undoubtedly at a crucial moment in the development of the Union.
I hope that once we get a full-time President of the Council he or she will regard this as an absolute priority, but in the meantime, in order to keep the Lisbon process on track, the Commission should publish a regular annual scoreboard outlining which Member States have done what and when.
The President-in-Office said that Mr Barroso is to be applauded for drawing the appropriate lessons from last month's debate on the Commission.
I fear that the Dutch presidency has failed in this respect. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the words of the Prime Minister about the situation in the Netherlands were loud and clear, and Members of this House have also said a great deal since.
I nevertheless regret that the Council has not made use of the European Council of 4 and 5 November to forcefully distance itself from the appalling events in the Netherlands.
Unfortunately, European cooperation in the fight against terrorism is currently typified by the well-known sacred cows of the Member States.
That is an example of best practice that should be copied not only in all the Member States but also within the European Commission.
We are pleased to see that the Council has heeded this House’s demands, in particular those relating to the move to codecision and qualified majority voting in such areas as asylum, immigration and the fight against terrorism, not to mention, of course, civil justice.
Finally, we are particularly concerned at the parallel drawn between the fight against terrorism, organised crime and illegal immigration.
These are people who have been forced to leave their country of origin as a result of unbearable living conditions or persecution.
Whilst it is true that we need a global approach to policies relating to asylum, immigration and external border controls, I am sure you will agree that such an approach should not be adopted at the cost of migrants’ basic rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today provides a welcome opportunity to thank Mr Nielson and his team for the splendid work they have carried out during his time in office as Commissioner.
In other words, we must move on from a reliance on countering insurgency by military tactics alone to a mixed plan.
The police should no longer be treated as a second-rate military force but, with European Union funding, commitment and training, given a real chance of becoming a proper police service.
We Europeans do not play off competitiveness against social cohesion, both of which express the European model of the sustainable social market economy.
I am therefore calling on the Council to take joint action with the United States in bringing pressure to bear on Israel so that it withdraws the troops currently deployed in the occupied territories.
The third obstacle relates to practical organisational issues and ensuring that the vote is fair, and this is an area in which the EU’s practical experience and support will be essential.
The recent attempts by Fatah to include Hamas in a government of national unity, as long as it renounces the armed struggle, are something which should be monitored very closely by the EU.
Indeed, clear and strong motivation, together with an emphasis on results, has been the driving force behind the success of our competitors, USA and Japan.
Second, the European Union should aim for a systemic approach to research and development activities and innovation.
Wim Kok’s report stresses the need to give top priority to research and development, but special emphasis ought to be placed on the applied side of research in particular.
One of the biggest problems is that funding is often directed into closed and ineffective systems.
Therefore it is our task today not just to rely on attractive plans, but to show the political will to actually implement those plans.
This is our responsibility to our voters.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;Balkenende, I should like to offer my condolences on recent events in the Netherlands.
Against this background, it is particularly significant that it was the Dutch Presidency that raised the complex issue of security for the EU, its Member States and its citizens.
The public expects, and rightly so, that the EU, an institution that respects human rights and fundamental freedoms, will adopt effective solutions with regard to the area of freedom, security and justice.
I should like to stress that this programme sets out objectives that were already included in the Constitutional Treaty.
The announcement that this programme is to include an anti-drugs strategy is also to be welcomed, as is the fact that the Council Presidency has chosen to make information on Europe its priority.
Finally I should like to turn to one last issue which relates to our future.
The leaders of four Member States were quite right when they highlighted the importance of demographic factors for the EU’s future economic and social development, and when they called for a European Pact for Youth to be drawn up.
With the support of a team, he drafted the report on the Lisbon strategy.
The European Union is lagging a long way behind, and the responsibility for this lies mainly with the Member States and national governments.
We must create added value on the basis of regional cooperation between neighbouring EU Member States, and I can provide three examples of ways in which this could happen.
The Baltic countries have particular opportunities for cooperation in the field of secure energy supply, an issue that is important for Europe as a whole.
Regional cooperation also involves cooperation with the EU’s new neighbours, and the position taken by the Council on the issue of neighbourly relations with Ukraine is therefore key.
If this does not happen, we will not achieve our ambitious goals and crucially, millions of citizens will fail to understand the Lisbon process. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, a Greek friend who recently visited Holland told me that what had impressed him most was that the police on the streets of Amsterdam gave the impression that they were there to protect citizens and their diversity, not to watch and suspect them.
Consequently, congratulations are in order for the Dutch presidency for the fact that, on the very days when these horrendous incidents occurred, it organised an informal conference for the 11 common authorities on the subject of integration.
I have to say that, while I consider it a good thing that the Council turned its attention to four European foreign policy issues, events lead us to prioritise at least two at the moment.
The first is the situation in Iraq.
Armed conflicts and operations do not resolve problems; on the contrary, they increase the obligation of the European Union to submit, at long last, a full and integrated programme on the subject of addressing the crisis in Iraq.
Elections in Iraq must be held and as many forces as possible must participate, so that the elections really are not an end in themselves but a means which will allow Iraq to shortly become a progressive democracy.
The second parallel and related issue is the situation in the Middle East.
The post-Arafat era is, of course, a new page in the history of this area.
Over and above all, the European Union has an obligation here to intervene so that the political testament of Yasser Arafat is respected, because it is certain that the crisis in the Middle East will be addressed through the political testament left by Yasser Arafat. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 4 and 5 November, as we all know, on considering how to communicate Europe to the citizen, the European Council made a very lucid analysis of the situation facing us.
The Council was naturally extremely concerned, given the very imminent challenges we are facing, including the ratification of the European Constitution by each of the Member States.
And it made a very specific recommendation, taking a practical approach that I would like to praise, which is to promote television debates in each of the countries in order to stimulate interest in this process of ratifying the Constitution amongst the citizens.
It is vital to ensure the general public’s security and fundamental rights, mutual trust and the primacy of law throughout the EU.
I congratulate the Council particularly on its decision to implement in full Article 67 of the Treaty, so that qualified majority voting and a process of codecision can be applied for a range of topics under Heading IV.
This is a step forward not only in terms of efficiency, but also in terms of democratic legitimacy, as it reinforces Parliament’s key role in adopting standards on topics as sensitive as asylum and immigration policy and all policies involving the general public’s fundamental rights.
In view of issues such as civil and corporate justice, cooperation in the area of criminal justice and, lastly, EU security, which remains one of the major priorities – the importance of condemning any kind of violence, but especially terrorism, cannot be over-emphasised – it is essential that Europol and Eurojust work in close cooperation.
We must not forget that the Stability and Growth Pact plays an important part in ensuring economic stability and consequently in ensuring that money retains its value.
I have also noticed that there has been support from many quarters for the keystones discussed by the Council, namely more cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs, working on safety in Europe, working on more balanced economic growth, the Lisbon strategy, and promoting public involvement.
Let me start with the Hague Programme.
Mr Schulz was right to draw attention to Commissioner Vitorino’s important role, because the excellent result has been achieved partly thanks to his input and influence.
Mr Mayor Oreja was right to talk about the importance of priorities being set in the programme for freedom and security.
For example, these priorities are in place for the first item, being asylum and immigration.
With regard to terrorism, we need to take decisive action to fight it and that is exactly why, as Mrs in ‘t Veld already stated, cooperation between police, justice and intelligence services needs to be stepped up.
Terrorism will also be discussed in more detail at the meeting of the European Council in December.
For the rest, I would draw your attention to the action plan to be compiled by the European Commission.
I think that the Hague Programme succeeded in striking the right balance in this respect.
That will change when the new Constitutional Treaty enters into effect, for then QMV will apply across the board.
That is why the Hague Programme is also so important, but that does not mean that in respect of QMV, immigration quotas can be imposed on Member States.
Mr Eurlings spoke wise words when he talked about the meaning of values and tolerance in society.
That also means that we must watch the place hatred and racism take in the debate.
That is why it is also so important for different groups, whether they be Christian, Humanist, non-religious or Islamic, to join forces in order to put a stop to violence and extremism.
In this Parliament, the importance of aid to victims was mentioned, and rightly so; this was a question raised by Mr Mayor Oreja.
There is a European action plan against terrorism that was laid down in the European Council of March, which contains a section on solidarity with victims of terrorism.
The Dutch Presidency plans to elaborate on that aspect in the December European Council.
Mrs Lambert mooted the idea of a human rights centre.
Finally, with regard to the Hague Programme, Mrs Flautre has spoken, and expressed her concerns, about reception in the region.
In that context, I would also refer to Mr Kok’s report, the report of the Employment Task Force, that was discussed some time ago.
It is the combination of those three components which has also come to the fore in the conclusions of the European Council.
I therefore beg to differ with those who claim that Mr Kok, along with his high-level group, has paid insufficient attention to the social and environmental dimensions.
In the European Council, Mr Kok maintains that we need growth precisely in order to retain the European social model.
Mr Blokland claimed that Mr Kok put the ball back in the court of the Member States, and went on to enquire after the Dutch Presidency’s agenda for the near future.
I should like to draw your attention to three things in this respect.
What is needed is not only declarations, but also that we simply examine what the matter in hand is and deal with it.
Mrs van den Burg was right to draw the attention to cooperation between the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten was right to point out that the actions must be concrete and that national responsibilities must, in fact, be taken.
It is also for that reason that I, as President of the European Council, have opted for a different working formula, namely for a very in-depth dialogue during the working lunch to exchange experiences with regard to the reform policy in the different European Member States.
I agree with you that there, too, the European Parliament can play an important role.
People from different political persuasions have pointed at the need for good communication.
A treaty cannot be signed and ratified if not all countries sign.
However, I urge you to do what we can in order to have a positive outcome and in order to receive support for the Constitutional Treaty.
Finally, also in the framework of communication, Professor Grabowska mentioned a youth pact.
Finally, different remarks have been made about external relations, foreign policy and the concern that exists about various developments in the world.
This brings me to the remarks made by Mr Catania, Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mrs Napoletano concerning the situation in Iraq.
At the same time, we must all contribute to stability in Iraq.
The conference to be held in Sharm El Sheikh next Tuesday offers the neighbouring countries and major international actors a good opportunity to send a joint message to Iraq and the Iraqi people.
Mrs De Keyser expressed concerns about the Middle East.
We in the Presidency are also working in close consultation with Javier Solana on a package of direct measures to support the Palestinians, particularly in the run-up to the presidential elections.
On behalf of the Presidency, I should like to thank the Members of this House for their in-depth and interesting contributions.
Europe means a great deal to the public.
It is not just about elevating the elite in Europe, it is also important to look at the broader definition of education for the labour market.
Here, the challenge for Europe to improve its competitiveness is not to say 'work harder' but to say 'work smarter'.
It does not make sense to talk about ambition and to define and identify with the ambition of Lisbon without doing something to the budget.
We cannot have a credible ambition for Europe without a credible budget for Europe.
I am totally convinced that President Barroso and the incoming Commission will do its utmost in this respect.
Let me turn now to some final remarks on external relations.
We have to talk about additionality, because we are adding to the list of things to do.
I want, on a personal note, to thank you for five very good years, both on the level of the results we have achieved together and on a personal level.
Thank you, and good luck. &#160;&#160; &#160;Thank you, Mr&#160;Nielson.
On behalf of Parliament, I should also like to thank you for your work.
The sitting will resume at 12&#160;noon, when we will examine the issue of ..., when there will be a formal sitting on South Africa. &#160;&#160; The European Council of 5&#160;November was the first since the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe was signed in Rome on 29&#160;October.
It is therefore important that we highlight our opposition to this Treaty and our criticisms of economic, monetary and competition policy.
The Treaty contains a profoundly neoliberal slant, to the detriment of social policy, and a narrow outlook on social rights and fundamental freedoms, with the emphasis placed on centralism and federalism in their various forms.
As highlighted in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European United Left, the conception of a European security policy in the Treaty contains a major military dimension, and provides for close cooperation with NATO and an increase in Member States’ military efforts.
We strongly believe that the Stability and Growth Pact must be revoked and replaced with a Growth and Employment Pact, as stated in our Group’s motion for a resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President of the Republic of South Africa, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour and pleasure for me to welcome Mr Mbeki, President of the Republic of South Africa, on behalf of the European Parliament.
I would also like to welcome Mrs Mbeki and the Ministers and Members of Parliament accompanying the President, who are seated in the gallery.
Mr President, we know that your life has been characterised by your fight for freedom and democracy.
Since you were 14 years old you have been linked to the activities of the African National Congress in South Africa and in many foreign countries, then as Vice-President of Nelson Mandela's government, and now as President of your nation.
The economic results are also very positive: you have recovered sustainable growth, controlled inflation and a significant increase in your currency reserves.
Our relations have developed significantly by means of the multilateralism represented by the Cotonou Agreements and also by means of the agreement between the European Union and the Republic of South Africa in the field of trade and development, which is now fully in force following ratification by all the States of the Union.
Finally, I would like to refer to the important role your country is playing as a mediator in the regional and civil conflicts afflicting your continent.
Your country, and yourself personally, have demonstrated this in the Great Lakes region and you are doing so at this very moment in Ivory Coast.
Mr President, believe me that this Parliament has followed the creation of the Pan-African Parliament with great interest, which is now in the Republic of South Africa and with which we hope to maintain close relations in the future.
For all these reasons, Mr President, it is an honour for the European Parliament to have you here today, and I am sure that what you are now going to say will be of the greatest interest to all of us.
Sierra Leone seems to have put its horrible civil war behind it.
It said that Pliny the Elder said that 'out of Africa there is always something new.' .
Mr Harland said that these days it seems the opposite is true: out of Africa there is always something depressingly familiar.
Six months after this article appeared, on 13 July, published yet another opinion about Africa.
We've done our share, more than our share in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Enough already.' Arnold Beichman's response to David Harland's observation that Africa's weak states need long-term assistance was to suggest that rather than the United States, the countries of Europe represented in this esteemed Parliament should reoccupy Africa, and be prepared to stay on for some time, just as the United States, according to Beichman, is prepared to stay on in Afghanistan and Iraq.
But before I go any further, let me return to Pliny the Elder.
As a repository of extraordinary exhibits that contribute something new to our understanding of the evolution of our common universe, the earliest being the first fossils of prehistoric animals to be found in our country, the Museum chose a motto that says Africa always contributes something new to human knowledge.
I want to argue that as you are doing in Europe, Africa is today involved in an extraordinary and creative endeavour that might contribute something new to the understanding of the capacity and ability of human beings to overcome adversity and build a new world of hope.
Black and white South Africans, and others from elsewhere in the world who have chosen to join in this effort, are hard at work, striving together every day to build a new African country that will, in all respects, truly belong to all who live in it.
In a hundred days a million Africans had been butchered by other Africans in a barbaric and savage manner that would have been difficult to imagine and is still difficult to understand.
Because the thunder of the guns broke the uneasy silence in Ethiopia and Eritrea, in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Burundi, in Algeria and the Côte d'Ivoire, in Sudan and Uganda, it has seemed to some that Africa is defined by the chatter of the weapons of war rather than the striving for peace, exemplified by what the African peoples of South Africa and Rwanda have, within the last ten years, sought to do, to address some of the grossest injustices that have occurred on African soil or, indeed, the peace that has prevailed in the overwhelmingly majority of African countries.
Whatever Africa needs to do to ensure that these two sister African countries do not go to war again to resolve border disputes, Africa will do.
As Africans we rejoice that peace in this part of our world is holding and will hold.
Under African leadership the wars in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Republic of Burundi have come to an end.
The terrorist wars in Algeria and Uganda are also coming to their conclusion.
Difficult as this may be for some to understand, as Africans we have no doubt that the people of Côte d'Ivoire will find one another and will together establish a stable peace, reunify their country and join together in electing a government representative of the people of Côte d'Ivoire as a whole.
This is a new Africa that has taken firm steps to give concrete meaning to the goal of the political and economic integration of Africa, in pursuit of the objective of African unity that is based on the understanding that, as Africans, we share a common destiny.
A long history of interaction and interdependence binds Europe and Africa together.
That history, as well as current realities, dictate that our two continents should build a mutually beneficial partnership for change.
It exports some of its best-prepared human resources to your countries to your benefit.
Current global realities that threaten us all, concerning failed states, seemingly unbridgeable ideological differences and international terrorism, are other factors that communicate the message that during this period of globalisation, no country or continent can be an island.
As you have worked to build the new Europe after the costly Second World War and the end of the Cold War, you have taken firmly on board two related and critically important objectives of cohesion and solidarity within the EU.
Perhaps the European and Pan-African Parliaments could take the initiative to begin this dialogue.
And one of the greatest responsibilities of our time is to end the obscene reality of endemic poverty for millions when the means and know-how exist within human society to achieve the goal of a better life for all.
Something new, Africa will always contribute something new.
I thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you all for your attention. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your words, Mr President.
In other words, certification has been awarded to private individuals by the state, which will check them randomly and, more importantly, in a very small ratio.
The report finds that this new procedure will not significantly downgrade seed standards.
The objective is to extend the profitability of private capital which, in addition to production and sales, will also have certification, and to reduce the corresponding public spending by the Member States, which will be passed on to farmers many times over.
In my country, horticultural seed, which is supposed to be guaranteed by the manufacturer, has deteriorated to the point that the farmers using it have gone bankrupt, have not received compensation and have become embroiled in fruitless and costly court proceedings.
For these reasons, we shall be voting against the report and the proposal for a Council directive. &#160;&#160; .
We are aware of the pressure to accord tax sovereignty – the ability to raise taxes – to the EU, and are firmly opposed to this, because sovereignty in this area is an essential element of a country’s sovereignty.
The savings directive, which forms part of what is known as the Monti package, contributes, in spite of dangers and shortcomings, towards a system whereby Member States’ tax administrations exchange information – including lifting banking secrecy – so that they can tax their citizens on interest accrued in another Member State.
Accordingly, the Council has authorised the Commission to negotiate agreements with Switzerland, the USA, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco and San Marino on implementing measures to prevent flights of capital.
This proposal is the result of the authorisation conferred by the Council on the Commission (decision of 16&#160;October 2001) to negotiate agreements with Switzerland, the United States of America, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco and San Marino aimed at preventing cases of individuals and collective entities managing to avoid any form of taxation in their State of residence on interest accrued in another State.
Furthermore, it establishes another effective instrument in the fight against money laundering, in this case in relations with Andorra.
The fact that it received a unanimous vote in the relevant committee is ample proof of the desire to press ahead with all of these objectives.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; .
The aim of this programme is to foster the communitarisation of the management of Member States’ borders, and of the policies on visas, asylum and immigration, with funds from the Community budget that require national cofinancing.
This is firstly because there is no evidence that there is any actual need for the departments in the Member States – along with partners from other Member States – to organise and mobilise the resources required to carry out those projects and secondly because, as we have stated, given the monetary policy and the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact by the European Central Bank and by the governments of the 12 countries of the euro zone, Member States have not been able to mobilise the national resources required to obtain funding for this programme.
This means implementing a common policy of measures concerning visas, asylum and immigration, something to which the June List is opposed.
The appropriations were not taken up, not because there was disagreement on the orientation of the programme, but because the ruling order of each Member State of the European Union wishes (for the moment at least) to retain responsibility for its borders and to decide on the basis of its own interests how many immigrants it is in its interests to squeeze dry.
Nonetheless, the Commission proposal to the Council under debate makes provision for doubling the original amount and even for financing the initiatives of each country individually, which clearly demonstrates the persistence of the European Union in armouring a European area of repression and policing.
The parliamentary report is fully in keeping with the decision by the EU institutions and the Commission proposal. &#160;&#160; .
I voted in favour of the report on the ARGO programme, firstly because border management is one of the most important issues involved in implementing a genuine area of freedom within the EU, secondly because the resources of the programme have been under-implemented whilst the Member States should be paying closer attention to these issues, and lastly because Portugal has been advocating simplifying the programme in recent years. &#160;&#160; .
The practical implementation of the ARGO Programme – an action programme for administrative cooperation in the fields of external borders, visas, asylum and immigration, established by Council Decision in June 2002 – has suffered a number of setbacks, particularly because the proposed actions were found to be excessively bureaucratic.
Another problem was the difficulties experienced by Member States, along with their partners from other Member States, in organising and mobilising the necessary cofinancing to carry out the projects.
In order to promote the general objectives of the ARGO programme, the Commission therefore proposes to increase and diversify the various actions proposed on external borders.
The award of financial aid to national projects in the area of external borders, aimed at offsetting certain structural shortcomings that have occurred at strategic border crossing points, fulfils a wish, often expressed by both the Council and Parliament, for greater coordination between the various Member States as a crucial response to the challenges posed by today’s world.
I therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; .
The main purpose of the proposal for a directive before us is to take account of the recent EU enlargement and the specific situation in new Member States as regards meeting objectives of recovery and recycling, by giving them more time to adapt their national systems to Community targets.
Despite the fact, however, that the Commission has agreed to draw up a report on the implementation of the Directive by 30&#160;June 2005, we must, once again, emphasise the importance of reuse and prevention when it comes to packaging and packaging waste.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Corbey (A6-0027/2004) on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste.
Furthermore, information on the conditions for further increasing the recovery and recycling targets in the acceding States was insufficient.
The current proposal lays down a deadline of 31 December 2012 by which the ten new Member States must fulfil the targets for recovery and recycling of packaging waste.
The positive results achieved by the EU Member States in the Union of 15 can and must also be achieved by the new arrivals.
I welcome the rapporteur’s proposal based on the idea that all Member States should still be encouraged to implement packaging reuse systems, with the aim of achieving a high level of environmental protection and giving the new Member States a period in which to adapt properly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, permit me first of all to congratulate you on your Presidency.
A few days ago, I was in Venice, at the theatre of La Fenice, at a performance of the opera , with my dear colleague, Mr Karl von Wogau.
What is thus being proposed is a financial aid package to the Turkish Cypriot community, which completely overlooks the fact that part of the territory of the Republic of Cyprus, an EU Member State, is under Turkish military occupation, and that is unacceptable.
I also wish to highlight the paradox of voting on the use of the agency for the practical implementation of a regulation &#160;&#160; There are reasons for questioning the setting up of new EU bodies for supporting regional economic development.
There must therefore be an overall solution bringing about peaceful and stable development in Cyprus before the EU contributes funds, through the European Agency for Reconstruction, to support Turkish-Cypriot population groups.
I voted in favour of the report by Mr Samuelsen (A6-0031/2004) on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 on the European Agency for Reconstruction.
I feel that the Agency’s work is essential, particularly because South-Eastern Europe is a key region for the EU.
Parliament must not fail, however, to carry out its responsibilities as a budgetary authority, and must ensure a structured and stable future through the competences and activities of the European Agency for Reconstruction.
Parliament looks forward to the Commission’s report clearly dividing the tasks and responsibilities between the Agency’s operational centres and the Commission’s delegations, and containing an analysis of how the regulation will operate. &#160;&#160; .
The Vila da Feira European Council of June 2000 conferred on these countries the status of potential candidates for EU accession.
We must therefore follow up the assistance policy, which has been implemented and whose relevance and effectiveness have been proved, by extending the Agency’s mandate, given that there is a stable Community financial framework until 2006.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; . – The European Agency for Reconstruction is an EU mechanism for the control, economic plundering and political spoon-feeding of the peoples of the Balkan states formed following the reversal in the former socialist countries, with armed intervention by the USA, ΝΑΤΟ and the ΕU, which resulted in the carving up of Yugoslavia and the bloodshed of the people.
The rise in unemployment rates and the misery and poverty in the countries in the area as a whole, are a time bomb which the USA and EU are ready to ignite by encouraging the expansionist intentions of Albanian nationalists in the Balkans as a whole.
We believe that all foreign interference must stop and the foreign armies must withdraw from the area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a few days ago, I was wondering whether the appropriations intended for the Turkish Cypriot community, which amount to EUR 114 million in 2005 and EUR 139 million in 2006, would go, at least in part, to the pensioners living in the Turkish part of Cyprus.
Respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Cyprus must, therefore, be a prerequisite for any solution aimed at the ‘economic development of the Turkish Cypriot community’.
Hence our vote. &#160;&#160; We have not forgotten that Cyprus suffered military invasion 30 years ago, at a time when the international situation was admittedly tense.
The only course of action left open to European nations is to reject the Constitution of this Brussels-inspired Europe next year. &#160;&#160; . –I am voting in favour of the reports by Mrs Rothe and Mr Samuelsen because I believe that the Turkish Cypriot community in Cyprus needs economic and development aid with the objective of reuniting the island.
Secondly, that the decision by the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament will state that financing for Turkish Cypriots will be provided under heading 3, from which money is paid to Member States, and not from heading 7 or 4 relating to candidate countries and external aid. &#160;&#160; .
The solution essentially provided guaranteed self-governance for the Greek-speakers and Turkish-speakers each in their own part of the country, based on the successful model with which Belgium managed to solve the tension between the Flemish and the Walloons.
Unfortunately, the Greek-speaking majority, in a referendum, rejected this peace solution, which had been presented by UN Secretary General Kofi Annan.
No solution differing greatly from this one will ever receive the approval of both population groups separately.
I have sympathy for the Greeks and Greek Cypriots who would prefer Turkey to resign itself to a minority position in an overwhelmingly Greek-speaking country, as was the case between 1960 and 1964, but that remains impossible.
I welcome the fact that the European Commission has looked for ways to prevent the Turkish-speaking minority, who wanted peace and conciliation and voted in favour of the peace plan in the referendum, from being penalised for the fact that it was impossible on 1 May to include their area in the EU.
I therefore voted in favour of the report by Mrs Rothe (A6-0032/2004) – Instrument of financial support (Cyprus). &#160;&#160; .
The proposal for a Council regulation before us is intended to promote the economic development of the Turkish Cypriot community, thereby giving practical form to the intention expressed in the Council Statement of 26&#160;April 2004 ‘to put an end to the isolation of the Turkish Cypriot community and to facilitate the reunification of Cyprus by encouraging the economic development of the Turkish Cypriot community’.
I therefore agree that the EU should provide assistance to the Turkish Cypriot community, particularly in the areas of economic development, the economic integration of the island and improving contacts between the two communities and with the EU, in order to facilitate the reunification of Cyprus, which is also proposed in the Regulation.
I welcome this important proposal and voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was in Reggio Calabria catching a plane to come to this session of the European Parliament.
We were early, and so I was talking to him about this document, which seeks to limit and regulate arms exports from the European Union.
In Europe, at the European Parliament, all the governments of the world must be made to understand that arms must not be exported from anywhere.’ This observation seems right to me and it is with pleasure that I repeat it today, here in this Chamber. &#160;&#160; The system of blocs in place until the collapse of Communist totalitarianism led both sides carelessly to sell and distribute arms to all and sundry for use against the local ideological opponent.
Almost a decade ago I presented to this House the first ever report on the Arms Trade, calling for the introduction of a code of conduct on arms sales.
The economy is booming, millions are lifted out of poverty.
But it would encourage China to continue its tangible progress on human rights if each transaction was to be judged on its individual merits rather than by a blanket ban. &#160;&#160; We are of the view that individual Member States should monitor arms exports through their national legislation and through cooperation within the framework of the United Nations.
Regarding the issue of an arms embargo against the People’s Republic of China, we have chosen to abstain in the votes on this issue in the report.
We have also chosen to abstain in the final vote on this report because it deals with issues upon which the national parliaments should decide. &#160;&#160; The delegation chose to vote against paragraph 25.
We prefer political decisions in this area and want the Member States to be allowed to retain the ultimate right of decision.
However, the interesting debate on a possible future EU-wide tax on Arms Sales is still in its infancy, and there are many implications that need to be fully explored and discussed, as outlined by the Dutch Presidency in the debate yesterday. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the amendments recommending that the arms embargo imposed on the People’s Republic of China in 1989 after the suppression of pro-democracy protests on Tiananmen Square in Beijing be kept in place, as China remains a dictatorship under which human rights are not observed.
In this context, we should not forget that Taiwan is home to the only one of the four major Chinese communities in Asia where democracy exists and human rights are respected.
Given this state of affairs, why do we continue to shun diplomatic relations with Taiwan, whilst missing no opportunity to stand up in this House for democracy and human rights? &#160;&#160; .
We Europeans have committed ourselves to making a contribution to global peace and security through arms limitations and disarmament.
There is not the least reason to lift the arms embargo on the People’s Republic of China merely because Member States have an interest in developing their lucrative trading relationships with it.
The references to smuggling and, more importantly, to increased use of private security or the provision of military and police services are monumentally hypocritical, because it is precisely the arms companies and the EU itself which are promoting these policies.
An ΕU which is in the process of militarisation, which cooperates with the USA and ΝΑΤΟ against the people has no right to refer to codes of conduct on arms exports and disarming.
Stringent international rules on arms exports should therefore be promoted, in view of the 2006 UN Review Conference on Small Arms, which is aimed at a legally binding international Arms Trade Treaty and includes measures for converting and restructuring enterprises producing military goods.
Maintaining the embargo on arms sales to China is a welcome sign of where the EU’s priorities lie in this field. &#160;&#160; Today, the European Parliament has adopted a report on the European Union’s Code of Conduct on Arms Exports.
I voted in favour of the report as a whole.
The report also deals with the introduction of a special tax on arms exports.
The principle behind such a tax, the income from which is intended to benefit victims of armed conflicts and the combating of poverty in general is laudable.
Moreover, a tax on arms exports should be seen in the context of other possible global taxes.
I have therefore chosen today to abstain from voting on the specific issue of a tax on arms exports. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Althea is a practical test for the European Union’s ability to guarantee, through its foreign and security policy, stability on its own continent, and it is with a great deal of excitement that we await this mission, which can be a success only if it, once and for all, puts a face and a name to our policy on South-Eastern Europe.
Unfortunately, the opportunity to carry out a critical assessment of how nine years of foreign military presence have affected that country has not been taken.
I feel that the ALTHEA operation must strengthen the EU’s global approach towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and support progress in the country.
The Stabilisation and Association Process in Bosnia and Herzegovina constitutes an essential framework for the country’s journey towards stability and development.
I welcome the EU’s decision to have recourse to NATO assets and capabilities for the ALTHEA mission, thereby confirming the collaboration between the two organisations and implementing the agreement of December 2002 on EU access to NATO planning and command facilities ('Berlin Plus'). &#160;&#160; .
Parliament’s resolution concerns the ‘first European military mission on a relatively large scale’, with approximately 7000 military personnel.
Lastly, among many other points too numerous to list here, Parliament regrets that the approximately EUR 71 million, officially earmarked as the cost of the ‘mission’, are not covered by the Community Budget.
We say that this is about giving continuity to NATO’s military occupation of this Balkan country now through its European pillar, the ‘EU’, as part of a process of accelerated ‘transatlantic’ militarisation.
I welcome the fact that NATO is to keep a headquarters in Sarajevo and is to remain closely involved in the operation.
The available experience, the success achieved in Bosnia and the fact that this is the most important military structure, containing contingents from most Member States, are the factors that ensure that we do not overlook its relevance and its vital role within a geo-strategic context that is urgently sought on both sides of the Atlantic.
The difficulties that Bosnia and Herzegovina still face at the present time are evident.
Given the needs of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the EU’s duty to show solidarity, I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; . – The declarations by the Commission and the decision by the ΕU to organise a mission code-named 'Althea' to send an expeditionary force of 7&#160;000 soldiers to Bosnia-Herzegovina in order to change the guard, in order to replace the occupying military forces of the USA and NATO, confirm the aggressive and imperialistic character of the ΕU and its identification with the strategy of the USA against the people.
The objective of this new Euro-army force is to maintain the occupation in the Balkans, in order to protect and promote the interests of big business in the area as a whole.
Recent developments following the intervention of the USA for FYROM, despite the fact that there were discussions with Greece within the framework of the UN, the fact that 2005 will be crucial for the situation in Kosovo, within the framework of the competition between and interventions by the imperialists in the area as a whole, are creating a minefield for the people.
The people of Yugoslavia and of the Balkans in general need to unite in their fight against imperialist plans and interventions in order to remove all foreign military forces and bases in the area. &#160;&#160; The Moderate delegation in the European Parliament has today voted in favour of the resolution on climate change.
We nonetheless question whether a common strategy is needed for what action the EU is to take at the Buenos Aires Conference on Climate Change.
We believe that Member States must each be allowed to decide their national positions themselves.
They confine themselves solely to renewable energy sources, to the strengthening of energy performance and to the production of energy from biomass, without including other measures such as using biofuels as partial substitutes for mineral fuels, making greater use of the heat generated in electricity stations, improving the techniques available for reducing emissions of greenhouse gases per produced energy unit and providing essential protection for and developing forests to absorb CO2 from the atmosphere.
As the resolution not only accepts but also strengthens trading in pollutants, proving that the multinationals and their political mouthpieces can pollute as long as they pay and that they have little interest in really reversing these dangerous developments, we shall vote against the motion. &#160;&#160; .
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on Climate Change B6-0129/2004.
I feel that the Kyoto Protocol is only a first initiative taken by the international community in the fight against climate change.
The EU must take a leading role in the negotiations at the COP-10 Conference in Buenos Aires.
COP-10 offers a good opportunity not only to build on the decisions taken at previous Conferences of Parties, and in particular in Bonn, Marrakesh, New Delhi and Milan, on implementing the Kyoto Protocol, but also to start a wide-ranging debate on the main issues for the second commitment period with a view to attaining the EU objective of the average global temperature increase peaking at less than 2°C above pre-industrialised levels; reiterates its position that in the long term the principle of equal rights for every world citizen must be applied. &#160;&#160; .
The issue of climate change and its effects on the planet forms part of the framework of increasingly accentuated globalisation and forces us to rethink our view of the world and of the development models in use.
Whilst I feel that preventing climate change must involve each Member State adopting policies and measures aimed at reducing greenhouse emissions, I also believe in the relevance of the Kyoto Protocol, which is the most important international instrument in the fight against climate change.
The EU delegation to the Buenos Aires Conference must, in my view, take a leading role in negotiations.
But you must ask the European Parliament, as the representative of the Pensioners’ Party, to send you to Havana to speak to Fidel Castro and offer him a good pension.
Fidel Castro will not relinquish power because he is not sure of getting a good, fair pension.
The work with a view to achieving a democratic Cuba should be done within the framework of the UN and through exchanges with Cuba, the nature and scope of which are decided through the national parliaments around the world.
However, we could not support this resolution because paragraph 6 seeks to undermine efforts to resume a constructive dialogue and engagement with Cuba, by setting the release of all political prisoners as a precondition for any review of the EU common position. &#160;&#160; . – The statements by the Commission that the EU is well disposed to apply a new policy against Cuba have to do with better, more efficient management of its economic interests and trade relations with Latin America.
We express our solidarity with the government and people of Cuba and their revolution, we demand an end to the embargo, for the new measures by the USA to be denounced, for imperialist interference in Cuba's internal affairs and for support for mercenaries who call themselves the opposition and political detainees to stop.
Cuba’s political future must be based exclusively on the will of its citizens.
They naturally included a point highlighting the ‘counterproductive nature of the embargo imposed on Cuba by the United States and the consequent need to lift that embargo’.
Recalling Oswaldo Payá’s letter of 11&#160;November, I feel that the firm ethical position adopted by the EU on human rights breaches in Cuba cannot be ‘diluted’ without it coming across as an embarrassing surrender.
Naturally, we want dialogue with Cuba.
This is reason to be pleased and hopeful. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted for this European Council resolution.
However, I must say that I should have voted for it even more willingly if the Council had realised that, among the very many objectives it set itself, it would have been good to include that of re-establishing trust between the citizens and the governments of European countries.
With this thought I wish you and apologise for having detained the Presidency, fellow Members, and all the interpreters. &#160;&#160; The Brussels European Council of 4 and 5&#160;November stated, in clear terms, that the objectives laid down in the Lisbon Agenda have yet to be achieved in the way we had hoped for.
I believe that Parliament’s closest cooperation or the monitoring of the implementation of the Lisbon Agenda will be inadequate without the cooperation of Member State national parliaments, the direct representatives of the citizens.
I voted in favour of the proposal by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
We voted against the joint resolution because we disagree with its content and because proposals we tabled were not adopted.
Giving the Commission a right of initiative and Parliament the power of codecision on such matters while depriving the national parliaments of any power, albeit only that of control, and depriving the Member States of their right of veto is a sure way of ensuring that lax proposals are made even more lax by this House.
This is why we will vote against all the motions for resolutions tabled today. &#160;&#160; This motion for a resolution outside legislative procedures contains a number of sensible views in various areas, but also a number of views with which we cannot agree, for example when it comes to the demand for a ‘coherent and comprehensive European asylum and immigration policy’ (paragraph 11).
We have chosen to abstain in the votes on most of the amendments to the joint motion for a resolution, as well as in the vote on the draft resolution as a whole.
We have also voted against Amendment&#160;No&#160;2 by the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, since we do not believe in the idea of founding a European School for Judges within the EU. &#160;&#160; . –The summit on 4-5 November took decisions of strategic importance for the faster promotion of the anti-grass roots and repressive policy which will unhesitatingly hit the mass grass-roots movement and the workers of Europe over the next five years.
The faster promotion of the Lisbon strategy and the suffocating control of progress in its implementation by the Member States, as contained in the Kok report, show that the European monopolies are in a hurry to apply mediaeval labour conditions of partial and temporary slavery with no working times, security or rights for workers.
They are also claiming a share of the spoils in Iraq, which is why they are strengthening the occupying government of Iraq with hundreds of millions of euros from the peoples' money, at the same time calling the Iraqi resistance terrorist violence.
We MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece are voting against the report. &#160;&#160; .
I voted in favour of the motion for a joint resolution on the European Council of 4&#160;and&#160;5&#160;November 2004, which addressed key subjects and took important measures, not least concerning the Lisbon Strategy.
I welcome the validity and the relevance of the Lisbon Strategy and am pleased that a balanced strategy combining the economic, social and environmental dimensions has been drawn up.
That balance is crucial both to society’s view of Europe and to Europe’s competitiveness in the world.
As regards the area of freedom, security and justice, the European Council clearly stated that illegal immigration must be reduced and that the only way to achieve this is by adopting a coherent and comprehensive European policy on asylum and immigration.
As regards Iraq, there is great concern about instability, indiscriminate violence, terrorist attacks and hostage-taking, all of which claim countless victims, given the difficulties that have come to light in establishing security and the conditions &#160;&#160; I am delighted that, as a result of efforts made by a number of EU Member States in response to the pressure brought to bear on them by this House, we can today be confident that a majority will vote in favour of the investiture of Mr&#160;Barroso’s new team on Thursday 18&#160;November.
Another positive decision which came out of this Summit was that of providing a fresh boost to the Lisbon strategy, the aim of which is to make the Europe of 25 one of the most competitive areas in the world in future years.
The European Union must demonstrate its desire to make our businesses more competitive whilst safeguarding the future of the European social and economic model.
European debates on the Constitution and on Turkey’s place in Europe are front-page news in all of our countries.
The time has now come for us to set it in motion again and to submit my team for this House’s approval.
I have made a number of changes in order to meet these demands, changes which I believe to be fair and necessary, but which have not entailed a completely new line-up.
In the process of doing so, I have had to take account of a number of different and sometimes contradictory expectations, both from political groups in this House and from Member States.
During discussions with my colleagues in the Council I made sure that Parliament’s concerns were raised, and I proposed the changes I believe to be necessary.
Whilst presenting my team to you today, I should of course like to reaffirm my commitment to the establishment of a new group of Commissioners responsible for basic rights, the fight against discrimination and equal opportunities, as well as my intention to put forward proposals on a series of ambitious measures aimed at strengthening our respect for basic rights.
Finally, I have taken other steps as announced before the October part-session, which include the putting in place of extremely strict procedures to avoid any conflicts of interest with regard to competition policy.
I can assure you that we are intent on working in an open and transparent fashion.
I want to return to my invitation last July to build a partnership for Europe, a partnership for prosperity, solidarity and security.
Let me add two comments.
First, I believe the Union, the European Commission and this Parliament can emerge stronger from this process of approval.
Second, with this new strength comes greater responsibility; a responsibility to work together; a responsibility to forge a relationship built on mutual respect and shared confidence in Europe's future; a responsibility to deliver results which make a difference to the lives of Europeans.
We must reinforce European democracy, reconnecting the Union with the people, and work towards the ratification of our new Constitution.
We must reach out across our continent to make a success of our recent enlargement.
We must reaffirm the Union's pre-eminent role as an area of freedom and justice and we must consolidate our leadership in striving for peace, security and sustainable development around the globe.
I would ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the European Council, to persuade your successor to follow your example when important debates are held in this House in the future.
It was on 29 June, Mr President of the Commission, that the Heads of State or Government nominated you to your position.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats strongly welcomed this nomination and still does so from where we stand today, knowing as we do that you possess the capacity and willingness to head up a strong Commission.
On 22 July, here in this Chamber, you were elected President of the Commission with 413 votes, representing far more than the absolute majority.
It was with a large degree of unanimity that our Group expressed its confidence in you, which it still has today and without reservations.
On 27 October, with no certainty of a majority for them, you took the decision not to put your team to the vote.
On 1 November, Mr Buttiglione, whose convictions had been the subject of a surge of emotionalism hitherto unknown in either this House or among the European public, told a press conference in Rome that he was no longer available to serve on the Commission, adding that he wanted to open the way to broad support for the Commission with you, Mr Barroso, as its President.
Speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, I would like to express our gratitude and appreciation to Mr Buttiglione for this noble gesture.
The Italian Government put forward Mr Frattini as its new candidate.
It became apparent from the hearings that Mr Frattini is an outstanding personality, competent, persuasive, and astute, with an in-depth knowledge of his brief.
Every human being has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
The Commission and the European Parliament are allies in the defence of the community of Europe.
At the same time, Parliament exercises parliamentary control over the Commission, and so what we expect of you, Mr Barroso, and of the Commission as a whole, is that you and all the Commission’s members should make yourselves available to Parliament whenever the European Parliament so requires.
Our expectation of the governments is therefore that they should work together better with the President-designate of the Commission in future.
In the vote, a very large majority of the PPE-DE Group will be expressing its confidence in the Commission.
We believe that you should have learned those lessons earlier, but never mind; you have arrived at the right answers, and the proposals you have announced today and will be presenting tomorrow are better than what you put forward a fortnight ago.
However much regard I have for your Presidency of the Council and for you personally, I found it regrettable that the Italian Government took a more flexible approach than did its Dutch counterpart.
One thing, though, is perfectly clear, and that is that if this House has become stronger in relation to the Commission and also the Council – and it has become stronger – then my group has played a decisive part in that.
Firstly, you have announced that you will be carrying on with the agreements that Mr Prodi made with Parliament following the change of Commission in 1999.
Making things more precise means that we assume that the undertaking still stands according to which Commissioners leave the Commission as and when you demand that they do so and that this will initially be dealt with within the Commission.
In the previous part-session, Mr Barroso, you attempted – and were, I think, ill-advised to do so – to get together a majority to defeat the Socialist Group, but in that you did not succeed.
If there have been changes in this Commission, they have come about as a result of proposals made by the Socialist Group and of vigorous pressure exerted by it.
For that reason, and also because a large proportion of your Commissioners belongs to our political family, I recommend that you seek our group’s cooperation.
That is particularly true of the Lisbon process, which is a process of growth, but must also be a process leading to social cohesion and social stability.
Mr Barroso, I have had many opportunities for discussions with you over the past weeks, and it was only yesterday that I saw at first hand your own hard work, for which you have my personal respect.
I sometimes wonder whether that hard work is a response to the pressures of the situation.
Four weeks ago, Mr President-elect, your rooster refused to crow.
Mr Piebalgs and Mr Kovács did well.
This is a better Commission.
Liberals and Democrats stand by our approvals with the same conviction that set us against Mr Buttiglione.
In political terms, the Treaty offers only the possibility of destroying the town in order to save it.
We expect that if, during your term, Parliament withdraws its confidence from any of your Commissioners, you will come before this House to address the failing.
In July you wrote the principle of individual responsibility of Commissioners into your speeches.
For our part, we must now rise consistently to the challenge of critical partnership that we laid down a month ago.
Mr Schulz, my Group may not agree with your assessment of individual Commissioners, but we acknowledge that you have sought a dialogue with Mr Barroso which respects the necessity and the inevitability of compromise.
Without wishing to underestimate the negative impact that Mrs Fischer Boel’s conflict of interest may have on the common agricultural policy, it is the clear that the case of Mrs Kroes represents the most dangerous landmine on the road to credibility for your Commission, Mr Barroso.
The ridiculous statistics produced by the Commission on the basis of invalid calculations cannot disguise the fact that if Mrs Kroes had been in Mr Monti’s post, she would have had to stand aside in no less than 35 cases.
It is true that you are not alone in sharing this responsibility: Messrs Shultz, Poettering and Watson have helped to shoulder it.
They took fright at their great success on 27 October and wished to return to being an acquiescent Parliament.
The responsibility for the future of your institution will lie with you, and with the groups who have offered sacrifices to contingent party interests and to counting how many Commissioners belong to their own political families.
Very quickly, Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying that not only is the composition of your Commission a problem but also the direction in which this Commission wishes to go.
We shall try to act as an opposition in an absolutely constructive spirit, and we hope occasionally to convince you that our road is the correct one. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, my group had delivered a basically critical judgment on the initial version of the Barroso Commission.
This assessment did not relate just to the tip of the iceberg, that is to say the Buttiglione affair, but to the overall profile of this college, marked by unbounded liberalism.
The former is known for her deep involvement in the business world, a position particularly conducive to confusion between public responsibilities and private interests.
Mr&#160;Barroso is thus taking the risk of putting in place a veritable machine for producing conflicts of interest and of doing so in the Commission’s main area of competence, that in which it has discretionary power.
Mr&#160;Barroso, your team will no doubt be confirmed in office tomorrow, but will be so without our support. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, almost all the members of my group are voting against Mr&#160;Barroso’s Commission.
The fact that a Christian and Eurosceptic has now been removed has not mollified us.
Finally, the common foreign and security policy.
After the implementation of monetary union, we need finally to take realistic steps to ensure that Europe plays a leading role on the international stage.
In conclusion, I should like to remind Mr Schulz that the European Commission has the precise and democratic duty to deal with the whole of Parliament and must not reach an accommodation – as he maintained – with one political group alone.
Finally, allow me a closing line: we hope that the same degree of fervour employed by one part of this Parliament in the anti-Buttiglione, and also somewhat anti-Italian, crusade will be directed in future to the better cause of a Europe that is a practical and effective exponent of the aspirations of European citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the arrangement between the independent members of the European Parliament, I&#160;count myself as a&#160;euro-realist and, on behalf of the Slovak People’s Party and my other euro-realist colleagues, I&#160;would like to support the choice of the new Commission as it starts its work.
At the same time I&#160;would like to draw its attention to questions of economic growth.
So we say to the new European Commission, get down to work! &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, you have previously said, both inside and outside Parliament, that you would make the changes needed to set up a Commission that has credibility and most importantly – and I stress ‘most importantly’ – one that is able to work in partnership with the Council and in conjunction and partnership with Parliament.
I must congratulate you, because the hearings have shown that you acted swiftly and intelligently.
You have managed to create the climate required for that essential partnership to take place.
I hope the reason why all those people who tell me that turned up to vote was because it had dawned on them that actually turning up to vote, and the way they voted, makes a difference.
I believe that means that it is not just a victory for individuals, but a victory for us together, and I also believe that both the Commission and Parliament have come out of this process stronger.
There is something else I have to tell you, Mr Poettering, because you had a lot to say about tolerance and because I can thoroughly agree with much of what was in your speech: when the same Member attended the hearings of Mr Kovács and used the same argument with reference to him – a man who helped to bring down the Communist regime, who played an active part in bringing about a single and shared Europe – there were those in your group who regarded it as disgraceful that one of their party colleagues should take such a line.
I also hope that is what your approval of the Commission means.
Let me consider two more points of substance, the first of which has to do with the social dimension.
Mr Schulz has already gone into detail about it: at these elections, we have seen how many citizens – by no means all of whom voted for us, although most did – are affected by a high level of unemployment and by the renewed increase in poverty on this continent; this means that there is an obligation on this Commission to do everything possible to create more jobs and also put social security systems on a sustainable footing.
The United States of America is getting a new administration, which is in part the same as the old one.
Such are our expectations of your Commission, and I hope you will be able to meet them. &#160;&#160; Mr Barroso, democracy is not comfortable and nor is this European Parliament in which we sit.
I am convinced, though, that democracy must be fought for day by day, and that, if we want democracy in Europe, we cannot wait for permission to be given before going into battle for it.
We also demand that you pursue an economic policy guided quite explicitly by the principles of the market economy and one that takes to heart the truth that you cannot distribute what you have not earned.
This will be a policy that requires reforms of the kind that are so very necessary in many Member States, including my own country, and so I ask you to very carefully observe whence criticism of your policies or even of individual Commissioners comes.
We – your Commission and us in this House – should be allies against the national defenders of the status quo, who are to be found above all in the Council.
The most visible problem was supposed to be Mr Buttiglione's controversial statement during the hearing, but that was merely symptomatic.
In the past we have had several Commissioners with the same opinions and nothing happened.
In fact, the problem was that the majority of Parliament thought that the Commission should be a better one, more in accordance with real European needs and with European institutions and more sensitive to European peoples and stateless nations.
The EU is going through a period of immense change and in the months ahead countries will debate and vote on key issues, most notably the EU Constitution.
Last month, we in Sinn Fein expressed our opposition to the incoming European Commission because we were deeply concerned at the political and policy complexion of that Commission.
In that manifesto we set out a clear and radical vision of Europe based on principles of equality, justice and human rights.
We also made clear our opposition to the continued erosion of public services and social welfare provision Europe-wide and the role that the EU is playing in this regard.
During the September hearings, many of the proposed Commissioners outlined support for social and economic policies that will actively undermine equality, justice and social solidarity.
There are also, as previous speakers have noted, a number of proposed Commissioners who have serious questions to answer with respect to their record when acting as ministers in their home states.
It is on this basis, and not through any desire for refusenik glamour, that Sinn Fein MEPs cannot support the European Commission team. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the upholders of French sovereignty will vote against what is known as the Barroso Commission for, in the first place, reasons of principle of which I have already spoken in this House.
Firstly, let it be noted that the Member States have been dispossessed of their last prerogatives in respect of the Commission, since two of them have had to back down.
By signing the would-be European Constitution on Capitol Hill on 29&#160;October, the Heads of State or Government also turned their backs on the Vatican and on our Christian roots, a wayward move that, in our view, is unacceptable.
I think it is an illusion to believe that, in such conditions – that is to say, by severing our roots – we can make much progress. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice (PiS) delegation within the Union for Europe of the Nations Group was faced with a serious dilemma.
In fact, Mr&#160;Buttiglione is no longer a member of this Commission.
By way of contrast, this House was ready to overlook the totalitarian past of certain Commissioners and their membership of the criminal Communist Party.
We cannot, however, vote against this Commission, because we believe, and this is a point I should like to stress, that the House has no right to question the decisions of the Member States’ governments.
For the reasons I mentioned earlier, however, we will at the same time be unable to vote in favour of this Commission, despite our great respect for Mr Barroso and many of his Commissioners.
If such a thing is possible, then any European citizen, soon perhaps even a woman, could take a fortnight to become Pope.
You yourself, Mr President of the Commission, spoke of yourself as going on a blind date, as you could not choose people for yourself.
The composition of the Commission requires interaction on the part of the institutions.
So, Mr President-elect, let us make the partnership work to which you have made reference twice before, a partnership between the institutions, the Member States, the social partners, consumers and the public.
Let us therefore get to work with an ambitious programme, concluding agreements that allow us the maximum of opportunity to get to grips with the real challenges that face us.
You can count on our cooperation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today sees us holding the second debate on the appointment of the new European Commission under Mr Barroso’s leadership.
The first debate, three weeks ago, primarily concerned itself with problems around the nomination of a number of new Commissioners and with the lack of cooperation between Parliament and the incoming President where the composition of the new Commission was concerned.
Everyone was asking themselves whether a majority in the European Parliament would be prepared to accept the logical consequence of the work done in the hearings over the previous weeks.
The hearings we have had this week with the candidate Commissioners have indicated that, in terms of quality, the Commission has been improved by this.
This new way of cooperating will ultimately also mean that the Commission will be in a stronger position, something that will be useful to it in discussions and negotiations with the Member States over the years to come.
The debate, which was at times hard-fought, on the putting together of the Commission, has given their votes in the European elections a manifest added value.
That does not augur well for all those who do not want an intergovernmental Europe but who, instead, want to construct a genuinely political and democratic Europe.
What, moreover, is at stake is the future of our rural areas, our food, our health and our relations with developing countries, as well as making a success of enlargement.
The reform adopted in 2003, which is still very liberal in its inspiration, does not, unfortunately, enable these problems to be treated satisfactorily, and your answers on the subject have been particularly feeble and evasive.
You continue to say that you will rely on the support of Parliament and then, by sleight of hand, you present us with a team that does not answer the questions posed by this institution in any way whatever.
There was a Dutch Commissioner criticised for her conflict of interest and there still is; there was a Hungarian Commissioner who was inadequate for Energy and who has been promoted to Taxation; there was an Italian Commissioner for Justice who has been rightly removed and another Commissioner, an Italian again, for Justice, to emphasise that the government of that country – whose Prime Minister has notorious judicial problems – needs to be protected by your Commission.
Finally, let Parliament be the judge of how the Commissioners have replied in their hearings and I assure you that the letter of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on Commissioner Frattini is by no means a pass with full marks.
We therefore observed the Commissioners-designate who took part in hearings before the individual parliamentary committees very closely.
It follows from my previous statements that the way in which the EU currently operates is a travesty of the ideas of Jean&#160;Monnet, Alcide&#160;de&#160;Gasperi, Robert&#160;Schuman and Konrad&#160;Adenauer. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Commissioners are appointed by the national governments and, just as the governments are of different political colours, so are the Commissioners’ political positions different.
Out of respect for the right of Member States’ governments to appoint the Commission, I intended to vote in favour of the Commission initially presented by Mr&#160;Barroso.
It was an expression of the pluralism in European politics, and Parliament had to live with the fact that there were Commissioners with whose positions we disagreed.
As is well known, a majority of this Parliament did not wish to approve the Commission because of a single conservative Catholic Commissioner-designate, Mr Buttiglioni, who had some old-fashioned views on homosexuality and the position of women in society.
The right of the Member States to appoint Commissioners themselves is therefore contested when the Commissioners concerned are Catholics with right-wing leanings but not when they are Communists and people with special financial interests.
I am not a Catholic, and I do not share Mr&#160;Buttiglioni’s view of homosexuals or of female equality but, in the light of the clearly dictatorial censorship of opinion in the opposition to Mr&#160;Buttiglioni, I intend to vote against this Commission, which has been constituted in a way that does not reflect the various political positions in Europe.
You said that Europe must first earn itself a welfare state, and I am sure that you will not lose heart or flinch before the task of giving an effective boost to the European economy.
Today we were told by Mr Balkenende, President in Office of the Council, that the leaders of the Member States would like there to be a parliamentary committee on employment and growth.
There is only one way in which economic productivity can be increased and jobs created, and I am sure you are well aware of what this is: businesses must be persuaded that the European Union is the right place to be if they are to flourish.
This is the task facing you and your Commission.
Mr Barroso, I believe that you will make your fellow Commissioners conscious of the fact that we cannot create a welfare state on credit, in so doing frittering away our children’s future.
I would ask you to encourage certain of the leaders of the 25 EU Member States to show similar courage, so that instead of creating parliamentary committees they begin to reform their welfare systems, lower taxes and make savings.
Mr&#160;Barroso, the events of these last few weeks will, I hope, have brought you closer to the European Parliament.
We were already able to gauge his interest in a more efficient EU.
Our Parliament has spoken, and it intends to play its role alongside yourselves.
We are in fact only too aware of the paralysis due to the Council.
Your task is a huge one, involving a vote in favour of the Constitution, together with the issues of employment, competitiveness and support for our SMEs and our self-employed.
What we expect from you is a genuine industrial policy conducive to supporting growth.
What we ask of you is that you lead a visionary team for Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Barroso, what has happened is in actual fact not only a victory for the European Parliament, but also a victory for yourself.
You said today that you wanted to strengthen the connection between ordinary people and the European Union.
Genuine answers can only be given to those questions if the European Union can present a comprehensive strategy that provides jobs, jobs and more jobs.
If we are to deal with globalisation in a pro-active, rather than defensive, way and if we are to offer a pro-active response during the forthcoming trade negotiations with the United States, China, India and all the developing countries, we must be able to create jobs, jobs and more jobs in Europe.
I therefore believe that, in the last analysis, it is perhaps the governments that are the most important interlocutors.
The Lisbon process – which all of us, or many of us in any case, are solidly behind – must be taken seriously by the governments.
It would be of vital importance if you could confirm this in your response. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Barroso, I participated in the vote partly in order to obtain a Commission with more women in it than the present Commission.
I formulated this demand in my group’s letter to you prior to the vote on your candidacy in July.
Nor, however, can I vote against a Commission of your making that is so liberal and sympathetic to reform.
You will therefore see me not taking part in the vote tomorrow.
The new Commission is dominated by Christian Democrats and Liberals, who quite openly proclaim their intention of implementing the right-wing political programme contained in the draft Constitution.
The Dutch Government claims that only President Barroso can reject her, while he puts the ball back in their court.
It would be a good thing if this House could reject contentious candidates by voting for one candidate at a time. &#160;&#160; President Barroso, the lay fundamentalism that dominates Parliament’s Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs has forced your Commission to replace Professor Buttiglione with another Commissioner, who was subjected to a battery of questions and who had to stick rigorously to the strictest politically correct line.
I notice that the gavel is going down after exactly one minute, and not 30 seconds later, as it has done for everyone else. &#160;&#160; Mr Kilroy-Silk, you can be glad that I did not interrupt you while you were speaking.
On behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which is after all, numerically, the strongest in the European Parliament, let me say that we are indeed getting such a Commission, one that is capable of performing these tasks, one that enjoys our confidence and has earned that of the European public, whom we, in this House, represent.
As I see it, we have our mandate as the European Parliament and you have your mandate as the Commission currently in office, and we are to exercise them in the interests of the public.
The Commission, as an institution, would have suffered a defeat.
We are going to give our agreement to what is far from being a dream team, but which appears to be more competent than Barroso&#160;I.
The new Commission will have to apply itself in order to win the confidence of the large majority of MEPs who want to see an active and prosperous Europe that defends its social and environmental model.
The European Parliament is unusual as parliaments go.
All the political groups are at one and the same time in the majority and in opposition, with majorities forming around precise political objectives.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has succeeded in building a broad coalition of pro-Europeans and anti-Europeans, loosely held together by a few conservative values.
I hope that President Barroso has faced the facts and understood that he will not be able to rely solely on his party of origin, nor even upon all those on the right, and that he will have to count, in particular, upon the PSE Group which, with its 200 MEPs, is crucial to forming a qualified majority in any legislative procedure.
I hope, Mr&#160;President, that you will take account of this fact. &#160;&#160; Mr President, sometimes European parliamentary democracy makes progress by putting up a scaffold and sending a king to the guillotine.
The proposed framework agreement strengthens the Parliament, but it also strengthens the Commission, especially its President and its standing with the Council.
The crisis has reassured citizens that the spirit of democracy prevails in the European Union.
Other groups criticise other Commissioners, and I ask myself in what ways this Commission is an improvement.
It is for that reason that I reject your Commission. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Barroso, your forename is Manuel, which is pronounced Manolis or Manolios in Greek.
At the same time, you are keeping the Dutchwoman, Mrs Kroes on the portfolio of competition, despite the fact that her professional career shows that she is totally unsuitable.
The new Commission which you are proposing to us is very neo-liberal, quite a lot further to the right than that recommended by the European Parliament.
Once in a while you say 'no' to the governments of France and Germany, but you always say 'yes' to the governments of Italy and Holland which, like you, say 'yes' to Mr Bush, as you did in the Azores.
I am really sorry but, if we are to come to an understanding, that is not at all 'politically correct', Mr Barroso. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Swedish party, the June List, intended voting against Mr&#160;Barroso’s first proposal for two reasons.
We shall therefore vote against Mr&#160;Barroso’s proposal.
Thank you for giving me the floor. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree with Mr&#160;Kilroy-Silk’s comments, and this is not merely because he was until recently a member of the Labour Party in the British Parliament, something which I should like to draw to the attention of some of his critics.
Mr&#160;Cohn-Bendit recently quoted Mao&#160;Zedong in one of his speeches before this House, a leader whose writings you are acquainted with, Mr&#160;Barroso.
Mr&#160;Barroso, I would like to say that the members of the Polish political party Self-defence (Samoobrona) will vote in favour of the Commission line-up you have proposed, even though we still have reservations concerning some of the Commissioner-designates nominated.
I hope you will remedy this lack. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in July my United Kingdom Conservative colleagues were prepared to support you, Mr Barroso, and, despite reservations, your Commission team.
You have demonstrated clearly your pro-reform views both as Prime Minister in Portugal and also in your prospectus for the EU, especially on the Lisbon Agenda.
We should give this achievement a permanent place in the Interinstitutional Agreement and secure it for the future.
I put it to you that this House, together with your Commission and the Council, will do everything possible over the next two years to ensure that this historic project be brought to a successful conclusion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, what are we going to vote on tomorrow?
One point emerges from these two considerations: either Mr&#160;Barroso is responsible for these choices, in which case that is a serious matter because he has made bad choices; or he has allowed these choices to be imposed upon him by the governments, which would be even worse. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Barroso, instead of doing some thorough spring-cleaning when you moved in, you have just brushed some of the problems under the carpet where they will fester until, one day, they reappear and cause problems.
Mr&#160;Dimas inspires confidence, but he appears more interested in industrial policy than the environment.
Until you have fixed these problems, I must unfortunately vote against the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, between July and November, Mr Durão Barroso has followed a tortuous route strewn with obstacles such as the October crisis, which meant that he had to change the membership of the Commission, thereby demonstrating that pride comes before a fall.
There remains a major bias towards neoliberal capitalism in this Commission, firstly in view of some of its Members’ known links with large European business groups, and particularly in view of the proposals that they intend to put forward, which will mean that serious issues such as social and economic problems, unemployment, massive social and territorial inequality, poverty and social exclusion will still not be addressed.
Accordingly, our position is clear and remains as it was in July.
Or let us take it a step further.
Maybe 13 for the PPE-DE Group and 12 for the PSE Group.
One institution has gained, 25 countries have lost, and we are the union of nations no more. &#160;&#160; Mr President-elect of the Commission, it is not a sundial that you have set in motion but a legal clock, which has no roots in history and is not of our civilisation.
If this Commission endeavours to eliminate social discrimination, if it rectifies policies that are making life more precarious, if it supports policies that encourage population growth and are pro-family, if it defends our manufacturers from attack by competitors from outside Europe, if it puts an end to all processes of enlargement unless the people of Europe have first been asked for their opinion on the proposition, then it may well have our support.
Otherwise, you will find in your path the men and women of Europe, who are as hard as the stones of Karnak and as sun-baked as the stones of the Parthenon, who will remain fiercely hostile to you, as they are today. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-elect of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the deep attachment of the Italian delegation of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats towards the Barroso Commission.
Thanks also go to our friends in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
You said that democracy is half plus one, but perhaps democracy in this Parliament equals the whole minus one – the most wretched and most Catholic Mr&#160;Buttiglione. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I very much want, first of all, to thank those MEPs who, in the last part-session, refused to place their confidence in the Commission proposed by you, Mr&#160;Barroso, for it in no way corresponded to the values of tolerance, solidarity and transparency that should characterise the European Union.
With regard to what you are proposing to us, I know that you have not gone back on your intentions and that, to mention just two areas, the social dimension and public services are not really your Commission’s priorities.
Parliament’s new, pride-inducing legitimacy as something more than a simple recording chamber or rump parliament cannot now be called into question by clever presentation and a certain talent for oratory.
In order to remain faithful to my values, consistent in my choices and concerned to see Parliament respected, I shall not vote in favour of your Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Barroso, I should like to thank you because you are now presenting an obviously better team than you did some weeks ago.
On it also depends good cooperation between the two institutions in this legislative period.
In order to avoid such a situation, the Convention had proposed that each Member State should present three Commissioners, including at least one man and one woman.
I think that we in this House need to evaluate all aspects of the procedure.
This is where it seems to me to be essential that we should safeguard the collegial nature of the Commission, which would be put under strain if Parliament were to approve Commissioners on an individual basis.
We must keep a watchful eye over the balance between the institutions. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr Barroso, you have displayed necessary and unavoidable flexibility which will enable you to obtain the majority of the votes of the European Parliament tomorrow.
For us – that is to say, for the new Member States – equal treatment is crucial.
We are very well aware that there are no reserves left in terms of financial resources but, like the Hungarian Socialists and the former Portuguese minister, who empathised with the new Member States, we ask you to do what Mrs Fischer&#160;Boel promised us during her hearing and find new means and methods more appropriate to specific conditions, for example in the sphere of rural development.
President Barroso, you have tried until the very last to ignore the will of Parliament.
In that sense I should like to reassure Mr Mauro from the PPE-DE Group.
However, it is precisely these professional capabilities, which he has put at the disposal of the Prime Minister of Italy to draw up a law on conflict of interest in a truly partisan way, that make us uneasy.
I shall therefore vote against the Barroso Commission, through lack of confidence, in the sincere hope that I may be able to change my mind in future. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Barroso, firstly, congratulations.
In the last week of October, there were people who did not understand – and indeed criticised – your decision to postpone the vote on the Commission.
The European ideal and the Community process require an effective relationship between its Commission and Parliament.
It is in our common interest and we must build this to last permanently.
The European Project will be enhanced if we can promote the cultural identity of each of its communities and if each citizen can receive information and interact with the European institutions in their own language.
Mr President-elect, the fact that you decided to delay the vote on the Commission, that you listened to the mood of Parliament and that you made welcome changes to the composition of the Commission, means that, you showed respect for Parliament and contributed both to its reputation and its strength.
Mr President-elect of the Commission, Europe deserves a strong Parliament.
Europe deserves a strong Commission.
The tasks which await us in this mandate demand vision, boldness and, as you have correctly pointed out, a robust institutional partnership.
In any event, Europe needs strong political leadership.
Let me now finish by calling on you to ensure that the European Constitutional Treaty is successfully ratified as part of your personal and collective political responsibility.
This is not a prestige project, but one that is enormously important for those who reside, and lead their lives, in the geographical area for which Parliament and the Commission together have very considerable political responsibility. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the other day in Brussels I pointed out that, when the celebrated thinker Ortega was asked from what distance events had to be viewed in order to write history, he replied: "at a sufficient distance not to be able to see the profile of Cleopatra’s nose".
A majority of this House will be investing a great deal of political capital in you tomorrow.
Mr President-elect of the Commission, I wish you the best of luck in that task. &#160;&#160; Mr President-elect of the Commission, the replacement of Commissioner Buttiglione is certainly a step forward but it is a goodwill gesture which, in our judgement, is still not enough.
I allude to some of the political choices that we would equate, if I may say so, Mr President, clearly with the right.
For these reasons, Mr Barroso, you will not have our vote of confidence tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I shall try to finish what I have to say before the roof collapses.
The witch-hunt by the Greens against Mrs Kroes demands a response.
Mr Barroso, your Commission has outstanding ambitions in the field of economic regeneration and the combating of discrimination.
Tomorrow, I think, this House will put you in a position to do so. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, I trust that sound was not a sign that a storm is on its way, and I hope the weather will remain fine.
On behalf of the Polish delegation within the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I should like to lend my support to the second Barroso Commission.
Our common European interest demands such leadership.
We expect it to implement three priorities.
Secondly, the Commission needs to maintain and develop the European Union’s solidarity and cohesion.
Thirdly, it must develop the European Union’s eastern dimension.
As I said, enlargement was carried out in formal terms, but has not been completed.
The important point here is that the new Member States should achieve equal involvement in all dimensions of the EU’s policies, as well as full and equal rights, and that they should be treated equally.
The second priority, and one which is particularly important for the new Member States, is the European Union’s social and economic cohesion, something that flows from the ever-necessary principle of solidarity.
This House will be on your side, Mr&#160;Barroso.
Trusting that it will focus on these priorities, we hope it will be a strong Commission and that you will be a strong leader. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the changes Mr Barroso promised to make were the result of the strong stand taken by the European Parliament.
We are calling for the strengthening of the agreement on institutional relations with the European Parliament and, above all, Mr Barroso, we are calling for you to focus on sustainable development, employment, solidarity and cohesion and to strengthen the role of Europe as a force for peace and cooperation when you present your Commission's programme statements.
Madam President, Mr Barroso, with a sense of responsibility towards the citizens of Europe, we shall judge severely.
We shall control the political initiatives, the political acts and actions of the European Commission and the honouring of your commitments on a daily basis.
However, we should have wished for equal rigour and strictness in the case of conflict of interest and the other heavy burdens hobbling your Commission, in which some Commissioners will be impeded from fully carrying out their mandate. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr Barroso, on 27 October you demonstrated that the stand which you took from the same tribune during your speech on your election in June was both solid and precise.
On 27 October, you listened to the voice of Parliament and acted accordingly, with respect both for the role of Parliament and the confidence it placed in you in June.
You yourself stated that the main role of the President of the European Commission was to manage the dynamic assent which Europe needs and you demonstrated that you were already faithfully following that principle.
We believe that the new composition which you have presented is more efficient and will respond to the issues of prosperity, solidarity and security.
This, in conjunction with the importance which you attach to democratic scrutiny by Parliament, gives us guarantees of sensible management.
I think and hope that you have substantially understood that the future of European democracy does not rest exclusively on two legs, the Council and the Commission, but that there is a third entity that counts and wants to count.
I take note of the effort that you have made in this direction: whether it is in recognising, I hope definitively, the role of Parliament, or in modifying the composition of the team that will accompany you in the coming years.
Her conflict of interest is now seen by all and with her confirmation, President Barroso, you are undermining yourself and your actions.
In any case, you have my best wishes in your work above all for the good of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President-elect of the Commission, in recent weeks we have been able to see the way in which you deal with this Parliament.
Europe needs women and men who can play the role of supreme representatives of all the institutions, including the European Parliament and the Parliamentary committees, in this way -– I refer to my colleague Mr Bourlanges, who is absent from the chamber.
A Commission with such a profile must be dedicated to securing swift approval of the Constitutional Treaty.
The birth of the first basic law of the European Union represents a great result for us all, even though I, together with the members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, harbour a regret that an explicit reference to our Christian origins is missing.
However, together we all have the duty to imbue this great work of constitutional engineering with political will.
Because you will be a man of the Institution, at the exclusive service of our citizens, you will have the confidence of the Italian delegation of the European People’s Party. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-elect of the Commission, the Council will not help you since it does not seek to increase your power, otherwise the famous peer pressure, which the Council wants us to believe is the best method for moving forward, would have led the Dutch Presidency to accept that it was a mistake to continue the stubbornness of the Italians.
Neither the Dutch Presidency nor the European Council have helped you, so you have a weakened candidate in a crucial position within your Commission.
In the letter that Mr Borrell sent you on behalf of the committee which I chair, we asked you what transparent method of warning and monitoring would be used in the event of a conflict of interests, a conflict which I believe will go much further than the cases highlighted by your legal services, since the problem is not a matter of which board of directors Mrs Kroes has been a member of, but rather of knowing in which sector she learned to defend a particular company or fight another.
It is against that background that I have to say how unfortunate it is that, after twenty years in the service of a dictatorship, a Commissioner considers himself not to have any cause for regret.
Nothing to be sorry for after twenty years in the service of a dictatorship.
This says more about the Hungarian Government and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament than about the Commission, because the responsibility lies neither with the Commission nor with the President.
It is a question of deregulating and of opening the way to freedom and transparency.
It is a question of advocating a Europe based upon the ideals of freedom and democracy.
What matters is to get the Lisbon process moving and to give Europeans the maximum amount of opportunities.
This Commission will then be a commendable one, and we give it our support. &#160;&#160; Madam President, this is no way to treat a Commissioner who distinguished himself by opening the Iron Curtain.
That is, however, the most normal thing in the world in a team sport such as this; now the match is over, what matters now is the acquisition of capacity to act.
For it will be the two Community institutions of Parliament and Commission that will have to implement the Constitution, thereby making this Europe of ours a Community rather than an inter-governmental arrangement.
This is especially true in the case of the Commissioner responsible for justice and home affairs, a portfolio which is after all of particular importance to the public.
We also believe that Mr&#160;Frattini is capable of putting his past as a minister of the Berlusconi government behind him, even though it surprises us somewhat that he was able to remain a minister in Berlusconi governments for so long whilst holding the view he put forward during the hearing, demonstrating a very strong commitment to fundamental rights and the principle of the rule of law.
In view of this, how was it possible for the government to adopt so many laws which were questionable from the point of view of the rule of law, and which the Italian and European courts now have to apply?
We must therefore assume in his favour that, as foreign minister, he was always abroad when these laws were adopted. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Barroso for listening to the European Parliament.
The recent contentious exchange of views between Parliament and the Commission has done three things for the European Union.
Finally and most importantly it has enhanced the democratic legitimacy of the EU by engaging our citizens in a genuine European debate through the forum of the European Parliament.
If only you could have gone further, Mr Barroso, but you have killed two birds with one stone in swapping the portfolios of the Hungarian and Latvian Commissioners.
Mr Kovács, who displayed incompetence and complete disdain for the parliamentary process during the first round of committee hearings, has inspired slightly more confidence in the role of taxation Commissioner-designate.
It would have been preferable not to leave your changes to the eleventh hour, but the outcome of the whole episode is that cooperation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council has been strengthened.
I wish you and your college well. &#160;&#160; Mr President-elect of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the Commission presented to Parliament, there are several points that I am pleased about.
I make no secret, however, of the fact, Mr President-designate, that certain issues have yet to be dealt with.
The second point that should be considered, and which has just been mentioned, is the reshuffle of the Commission.
The third and last point, which is particularly close to my heart, is the case of Turkey, and everyone here knows your views on the subject.
As you can see, Mr President-designate, certain questions remain and we hope that this debate will serve to reassure us this evening. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, the Barroso Commission and the European Parliament have been strengthened.
We must do everything in our power to ensure that EU policies can finally be made on the basis of the Constitution, internally, as is the case in the outside world, instead of their being based primarily on national and party politics; I say this thinking back to the comments made by Mr&#160;Schulz.
I wish you all the best. &#160;&#160; I am one of those who would have preferred it if your Commission had been elected three weeks ago.
The first lesson is that the European Union – and, in particular, the European Commission – must appreciate that it should not interfere in matters relating to faith, morality and ethics.
After all, if we really believe in the principle of subsidiarity and in unity in diversity, we must allow the individual States to regulate such matters according to their nations’ circumstances.
The second lesson that we can draw from what occurred is that the European Parliament is strengthening its position and is steadily becoming more determined in the role it plays in the decisions taken by the European Union.
This strengthened role of the European Parliament places the European Commission under greater scrutiny and makes it more accountable.
We also, however, have a Commission that is stronger as it is more open to inspection and scrutiny by the representatives directly elected by the European people.
We have thus reduced the democratic deficit in Europe and have moved the European Union a step closer to its citizens.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr Barroso, three weeks ago the Commission of which you are President was a good one.
The majority of its Members were and still are worthy of our approval, because it has avoided any split between super-Commissioners and second-class Commissioners, because it is closely aligned with our ideological values, and because, overall, it is closer to the opinions of the majority of Europe’s citizens.
Those should be our guiding principles and indeed those were the values that you promised to defend, Mr Durão Barroso.
Europe must remember that without security there is no freedom, without competitiveness there is no lasting social model and without subsidiarity there is no unity in diversity, but a fusion of separate entities, which is something we do not want.
Lastly, the Barroso Commission has our support because it represents an opportunity to restore transatlantic ties.
Europe is not defined by opposition to any country, particularly not by opposition – and certainly not by submission – to our main ally, but I believe that this is clear for all to see.
The vote on these motions for resolutions will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
We in the Council have of course been very much involved and have, as you will know, Madam President, given our assent to this new list of Commissioners.
I will readily declare to your House that I am gratified by what Mr Barroso, the new President of the new Commission, has presented to us today, and I wish to congratulate him on it.
I also want to congratulate the European Parliament.
By your leave, Madam President, I should like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to Mr Prodi and his Commissioners for having carried on with their work.
I take note of the support of the majority of you, the concerns you have expressed, the suggestions you have made and also the priorities you have expressed.
I should like to respond in particular to three points: firstly, the composition; secondly, possible conflicts of interest; thirdly, cooperation between the European Parliament and the Commission, thinking in particular of the framework agreement.
That is true: I have taken account of the will of the Member States.
The composition of the Commission is not the sole responsibility of the President-designate the Commission: it is a responsibility shared between the President-designate and the Council.
What I am presenting here is therefore already the result of a compromise.
Some of you, for example, are very much in favour of keeping a particular Commissioner, while others do not want that Commissioner.
I have been surprised to hear some members of a parliamentary group express serious criticisms of a Commissioner, in this case the Commissioner responsible for competition, when that same group had insisted that I retain the Commissioner in question in this post, which puts us in a peculiar situation in terms of relations between Parliament and the President-designate.
In these circumstances, I must say that it is very simplistic to present the composition of the Commission simply as a problem between the President-designate of the Commission and the Council.
I say all of this thinking of the future, since there are two aspects that I believe to be absolutely essential.
As you know, the Commission is the guardian of the Treaties, which means that I have had to respect them.
I am very much in favour of the Commission’s institutional position, not through institutional egotism, but because more than ever we really need a strong Commission in order to move the European project forward.
I am therefore prepared to work with you in an honest, transparent and open way; I am ready for this positive complicity with the European Parliament, but I must tell you that that will not be done to the detriment of the Commission.
It is very important that I make this clear to you, so that all of us are aware of our responsibilities.
It is true that certain Member States have shown greater understanding of the concerns that I have expressed than others.
I believe this should be pointed out, because I believe it is important to learn every possible lesson from this experience, for the future of the Commission and the proper functioning of our institutions.
The Director-General, who is assisted in this task by the Commission’s legal services, therefore has a duty to provide warnings.
Mrs Frassoni has mentioned three cases currently under examination, which could involve the anti-trust effort and which could involve conflicts of interest.
I accept that, Mrs Frassoni, but they are just three cases out of 561 of the same type which are currently being examined by the Commission, of a total of more than a thousand cases relating either to mergers or to State aid.
The Member States are democratic countries.
To say that somebody nominated by a democratic government of our Union, furthermore somebody who has until now been President of the majority party in that democratic country cannot, as a result of that, for a purely political reason, be appointed a member of the Commission, seems to me to be unacceptable.
I readily accept that there must be more transparency, more demands, but at times I wonder whether certain people, some through naivety, some with other intentions, are not trying to weaken the European institutions, which we want to be strong.
Let there be no doubt: this composition actually reflects the pluralism within our Member States.
It is the governments, which represent the majority in their countries –&#160;since, in all of our countries, the rule is the majority&#160;– who make the proposals.
I believe that, at European level, we must first and foremost unite, all of us with pro-European convictions, and work for the common European good.
Please allow me also to say something to the members of the Socialist group, with all the respect due to them: you will very often find that in the field of social cohesion, for example, you will have less difficulty with me in the Commission than you would have with certain Socialist governments currently in power.
We will see this when we discuss the Financial Perspectives; we will see then who really defends social cohesion and who defends a more active policy of redistribution.
We often say that we must defend the European social model, and that is true.
Did you know, however, that, in many Member States, particularly those that have just joined, there is no European social model yet, and therefore their problem is not how to preserve the European social model?
Their problem is how to achieve the European social model.
We must therefore work to make this enlargement a success and that is the direction we must work in.
With regard to the issue of cooperation between the Commission and Parliament, I do not wish to anticipate the result of the vote on your resolutions tomorrow.
The important issue is how to reconcile the principle of individual responsibility with the collegiate nature of the Commission.
This balance is not easy to achieve, since, as you are well aware, the collegiate nature of the Commission is laid down in the Treaties, it has the force of the law.
I cannot, therefore, accept going against the Treaties; I cannot accept the idea that a Commission should resign automatically in the event that you withdraw your confidence, because that is not laid down in the Treaties, and nor is it in accordance with either the spirit or the letter of the Treaty, and, as President of the Commission, I should be the principal guardian of the Treaties.
The Treaties establish the principle of collegiality, which does not mean that, on a political level, I am not perfectly willing to examine the concerns that you express with regard to a member of the Commission extremely carefully and to justify my decision.
We need it more than ever and the whole world needs that cooperation.
I met him yesterday and he told me, as all the leaders of the developing world tell me, that closer cooperation between Europe, which is currently the biggest economic and commercial power, and the United States, is very important to them as well and that we must commit ourselves positively to a progressive transatlantic agenda with the United States.
I will end by saying that the debates this week have enriched us all.
I would repeat to you my wish, and that of the whole of the Commission, to cooperate closely with you and to establish a positive agenda for Europe, because we have a great deal to do.
This idea of positive complicity with Parliament will be very important over the next five years.
We are facing increasing numbers of demands, but we can work together, the European Parliament and the European Commission, without any party-political pettiness, without pointless divisions, above all trying to unite all of those who believe that Europe has a future and who believe that we can inspire our young people to support Europe.
On this basis, I can guarantee that I am willing to cooperate closely within the context of a constructive and transparent relationship with your institution. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Barroso.
I alluded to the fact and said it seemed a bit unfair that you were ready to stop me when others had spoken for one and a half minutes.
I am told – I did not hear you say – that I was lucky that you had not used the gavel earlier because I was saying things that were untrue.
Your remarks accusing Mr Kilroy-Silk of slander demonstrate the anti-democratic nature of this Parliament and of all EU institutions if such a further example ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have no intention of taking part in this charade.
The Interpol alert issued pursuant to this decision is not based on an EU instrument or on an international instrument binding the European Union and Turkey.
The matter raised by the honourable Member therefore seems to fall squarely within the domestic jurisdiction of the countries concerned, and it is therefore not for the Council to express itself on this matter. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European Parliament called in its motion, following these incidents, for all the necessary measures to be taken so that the people responsible for these murders and for the shooting of unarmed demonstrators would be brought to justice.
The European Council conclusions highlighting the Hague Programme take account of the recommendation on the use of qualified majority voting and the codecision procedure adopted by the European Parliament on 14 October 2004.
In the Hague Programme itself, the European Council, taking into account the assessment by the Commission and the strong views expressed by the European Parliament in its recommendation, asks the Council to adopt a decision based on Article 67(2) TEC immediately after formal consultation of the European Parliament and no later than 1 April 2005 to apply the procedure provided for in Article 251 TEC Title IV, measures to strengthen freedom subject to the Nice Treaty, except for legal migration.
The European Parliament will have to be consulted on that proposal.
By virtue of the protocol on the position of the United Kingdom and Ireland, these two Member States will have the right to indicate their wish to participate in the adoption of the decision within three months.
In view of these procedural requirements, the European Council envisages that the move to the codecision procedure should take effect no later than 1 April 2005. &#160;&#160; I of course welcome the fact that the European Council has taken this decision to move forward.
We need to change the insular attitudes in national ministries, an attitude which accounts for why we had to amend the ARGO programme so that only one ministry can submit a project because it has not been possible to get three countries to cooperate.
It is quite clear that immigration and asylum can only work if there is coordination between the 25 Member States.
The objectives pursued through the common position remain valid, in particular that of facilitating peaceful change and respect for human rights in Cuba through dialogue with the Cuban authorities and with all sectors of Cuban society.
The review is still ongoing and I am therefore unable to give any information at this stage on possible conclusions. &#160;&#160; I take good note of the reply we have been given.
You may have read in the press that an initial discussion on the revision of the common position took place yesterday in one of the competent preparatory bodies of the Council.
However, I would like to emphasise that all Member States agree on the importance of a broad strategic EU policy vis-à-vis Cuba, based on the common position.
Regarding the practical measures to be implemented in order to facilitate international trade activities with the US, to the benefit of EU firms, the Council invites the honourable Member to raise this question with the Commission. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr President.
In general, the EU presidency tries to enhance relations with the US in various fields, for instance through business dialogue.
A report from the Department of Homeland Security in the US outlines the measures it needs to take to improve security with regard to cargo.
Despite some draconian measures introduced over the last two years by the US Administration, those have not been carried out.
It is not worth our while turning up to Question Time if the Minister is not going to respond or try to respond – as he could well do – to our questions.
I have taken note of it.
Judging that the state was "responsible but not guilty", Mr Farouk Ksentini declared a general amnesty for all members of the security forces concerned, as had previously been done in South Africa.
In this context, the pending ratification of the Association Agreement constitutes an important development in the EU’s relations with Algeria.
Firstly, is the Council prepared to intervene once more with the Algerian authorities concerning the case to which I specifically referred?
Nevertheless, according to the Constitutional Treaty, the environment is an exclusive competence of the European Union.
Also, an amendment to the Directive on penalties for marine pollution approved at first reading by the European Parliament proposes that ships with Community flags should be responsible in any part of the world.
In answer to Question No 9, the Council informs the honourable Member that the draft common position, including its annex, was discussed within the competent Council preparatory bodies.
I cannot add anything to what I said earlier. &#160;&#160; You cannot inform the House which Member States are opposing the inclusion of these three companies?
I cannot tell you what is under discussion in the Council and between Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;De&#160;Rossa, it is not you who has the floor at present.
Questions No 10 to 15 will be answered in writing.
