Thank you, Mr Hannan.
Written explanations of vote The European Commission's Communication COM(2007) 281 set all the European institutions a challenge: 'The time has come to look at Brazil as a strategic partner as well as a major Latin American economic actor and regional leader'.
This partnership was established on 4 July 2007 in Lisbon during the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union.
On 12 March 2009 the European Parliament adopted a recommendation to the Council which stated that 'the Strategic Partnership should provide for the establishment of a regular structured dialogue between the Members of the Brazilian National Congress and Members of the European Parliament'.
I voted against.
in writing. - The GUE/NGL Group has abstained in the vote on the number of interparliamentary delegations, due to the reference to 'Kosovo' in the formation of a 'Delegation for relations with Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro and Kosovo'.
in writing. - (EL) The PASOK parliamentary group voted in favour of the Stavreva report, because it gives Member States the facility to choose support measures for rural development at a particularly crucial time for the countryside and for farmers.
The original text of the Commission proposal was also improved on the basis of the amendments which I tabled in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
I support this document as it is allocating an additional EUR 250 million to supplement the funds earmarked for 2009 and it offers greater flexibility in terms of allocating and using the financial resources for developing broadband Internet in rural areas and for tackling the new challenges in the agricultural sector.
The report on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
We must also remember that the regions which most need help are found in Romania, Bulgaria and the Eastern Wall of Poland.
I voted in favour of this report, presented by my British fellow Member of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr Corbett, on the general revision of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
European democracy in fact holds principles of respect and tolerance among peoples that Mr Le Pen wilfully disregards through his determination to make revisionist remarks.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, and in particular Amendments 51 and 52, which replace the oldest Member taking the chair at the opening of the new Parliament by a 'provisional choice'.
We have already had this system abused by Mr Le Pen and his Front National when in 1989 Claude Autant-Lara was parachuted into this Parliament and made a farce of the opening of the institution with a lengthy and highly offensive intervention.
From Claude Autant-Lara to Jean-Marie Le Pen, we have come full circle.
As a French Member of the European Parliament and a member of the Independence and Democracy Group, I chose not to support Amendments 51 and 52 to Mr Corbett's report.
Moreover, there is nothing to prevent a political party unhappy with the current oldest Member from presenting an older candidate.
We could therefore have replaced Article 11 with the following text: 'Alternately, the oldest male Member or the oldest female Member from amongst the Members present will, as oldest Member, take on the role of President until the proclamation of Parliament's choice.
The alternating order will begin with the oldest female Member.' In this way, we could have avoided having a Le Pen as the presiding oldest Member without this House murdering the Rules of Procedure and adopting a procedure that exists in no other parliament of a democratic country.
The principle of idem ius omnibus- equal justice for all - must be strictly applied if the EU does not want to slide into politically correct hypocrisy.
in writing. - (SV) In the European Parliament's first reading of the telecoms package, a majority of Members voted in favour of Amendments 138 and 166, which have been under discussion.
We therefore voted against the compromise in today's vote.
in writing. - (DE) We are trying today to support economic interests by hook or by crook.
There may well be rights violations on the Internet, such as child pornography, which we must oppose, but this must not get out of hand to the extent that data protection is sacrificed at the altar of the economic interests of a few large companies and multinational corporations.
The original idea behind the telecommunications package was perfectly sensible, but with the huge number of amendments, one or more amendments criticising the package could have slipped through.
I voted in favour of Amendment 138, which I tabled in September last year and which was adopted by 88% of MEPs.
This is another blow to Sarkozy and the French Government: Parliament has said 'no' to Sarkozy on both form and content.
It was therefore important that our group's proposal be adopted, through our vote in favour, as this will maintain the freedom of exchanges between users, without these being controlled or sponsored by intermediaries.
However, it seems that the Council is not ready to accept this amendment, which is supported by a majority in Parliament who are against the limitation agreement reached in negotiations with the Council.
This is a struggle with which we will continue in order to ensure the protection of citizens' rights and unrestricted access by end-users to services.
Firstly, the amendments that best protect citizens' rights and freedoms have not been adopted by this House in the Harbour report, which complements this report.
It will be the Parliament elected on 7 June that will negotiate for the third reading.
in writing. - (EL) The 'telecommunications package' requested by the Commission and the Council constitutes a potential threat to civil rights.
Today during the vote on the electronic communications package, this parliament showed that the protection of consumer rights really is its number one priority.
This type of behaviour can only be encouraged.
in writing. - British Conservatives support ending the pay gap and other forms of discrimination between men and women.
in writing. - This report improves the way the principle of equal treatment applies to self-employed workers and assisting spouses in the EU.
in writing. - (SV) Social security systems differ depending on where you are in Europe.
This flexibility and the fact that the equal treatment of women and men is so clearly emphasised as a fundamental principle of a well-functioning democratic society have led us to vote in favour of the report as a whole.
The new directive should, above all, provide for compulsory registration of assisting spouses so that they are no longer invisible workers, and place an obligation on Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure that assisting spouses are able to take out insurance cover for health care and retirement pensions.
I voted in favour of Gabriele Stauner's report as I feel it is necessary to extend the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund's remit to also cover redundancies caused by the economic and financial crisis.
The purpose of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is to offer effective support to workers made redundant as a result of globalisation.
The cofinancing rate for this fund is 50% and this figure may be raised to 65% by 2011.
The maximum annual financial package available to the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is EUR 500 million, which is intended to be used to help people look for work or to finance professional training courses or mobility allowances.
If we do not make fresh efforts to combat the crisis in Europe, unemployment will rise to 25 million at the beginning of 2010, and the condition of public finance will worsen considerably.
The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was established in 2006 and will function until 2013.
The Fund's maximum annual budget is EUR 500 million and it is used to support active labour market measures, such as assistance for people seeking work, in the form of further training grants and mobility allowances.
in writing. - (LT) I voted for Eugenijus Maldeikis' report on the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on EU financial support to projects in the field of energy.
With today's decision the European Parliament allocated EUR 175 million towards the construction of an energy bridge, which will link Lithuania and Sweden.
Once this project has been realised, the countries in our region, which became EU Member States in 2004, will finally connect their energy markets to the Scandinavian states, and so to the EU market.
I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a programme to aid economic recovery by granting Community financial assistance to projects in the field of energy.
The European Economic Recovery Plan provides investments amounting to EUR 5 billion for energy projects, broadband Internet and rural development measures.
The economic recovery plan is allocating EUR 200 million to the construction of the Nabucco gas pipeline which will transport natural gas from the Caspian Sea region to the EU.
I voted for the programme granting financial assistance to projects in the field of energy.
In Portugal, gas network interconnection projects (infrastructures and equipment) are eligible, as too are projects to improve the electricity network interconnection with Spain.
The proposed investments are both extensive and costly, and it has yet to be demonstrated that all of these investments should be dealt with at EU level.
In total, investments amounting to EUR 3.5 billion are proposed for 2009 and 2010 - money that is to be provided from the Member States' budgets.
The fact that the Commission does not believe it has had time to carry out a thorough impact assessment of such a comprehensive proposal is utterly appalling.
in writing. - (SV) The proposal to set aside around EUR 4 billion for projects in the field of energy within the European energy programme for recovery is a good one.
At an early stage, the Commission proposed that EUR 500 million be set aside for 'sustainable cities' - a proposal that was, however, withdrawn.
in writing. - (DE) The SPD Members of the European Parliament have rejected the report for two reasons: First, the retention for the securitisation of loans is an important and correct instrument for involving financial institutions in the business risk of the loans in question.
The 5% retention agreed in the trialogue does not meet this requirement.
The de Larosière group's report and the Commission communication of 4 March have usefully developed this idea.
Furthermore, Article 2 clarifies that 'the general objective ...
in writing. - (SV) We Eurosceptics are always seeking to make EU cooperation less costly.
Budget restrictiveness must remain a guiding principle for us as elected representatives.
Ladies and gentlemen, I voted for the Wojciechowski report on the protection of animals at the time of killing.
Many people wonder how it is possible to protect animals while they are being killed.
In some cities, such as Lille, the swimming pools have womenonly sessions.
By creating the Conseil français du culte musulman in 2003, Mr Sarkozy, then Minister of the Interior, introduced Islam into France's institutions.
in writing. - Protecting animals from cruelty is a very important responsibility.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have chosen to vote in favour of the report on the renewed social agenda.
We Social Democrats believe that it is important for everyone to be guaranteed a decent wage that it is possible to live on, and we think that the EU should encourage this.
I voted for the Silva Peneda report on the Renewed Social Agenda.
Europe must be ambitious with regard to social policy, all the more so now that we are facing a serious crisis.
The guiding principle is the same as always.
in writing. - (SV) This report insists that Member States need to modernise and reform their national social security systems, introduce minimum wages and review the curricula in schools.
We therefore voted against the report in the final vote.
in writing. - (DE) The European social models are facing major challenges during the current financial crisis.
We must certainly take into account the competences of Member States in that regard.
For this reason, we oppose the blanket call for the introduction of a minimum wage in all the Member States, as originally expressed in paragraph 14 of the report.
The introduction of a minimum wage is a decision which should be left to the sole discretion of Member States.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have chosen to vote in favour of the report on the active inclusion of people excluded from the labour market.
However, the report also contains requirements for minimum wage systems.
We Social Democrats believe that it is important for everyone to be guaranteed a decent wage that it is possible to live on, and we think that the EU should encourage this.
Furthermore, Conservatives cannot support the call to establish a legal framework for equal treatment in employment to combat discrimination in employment and occupation and for an EU target for minimum income schemes and contributory replacement income schemes providing income support of at least 60% of national median equalised income.
in writing. - This report poses the question: how do we include people in labour markets who are currently excluded from them?
The fact that the EU even needs to ask itself this question demonstrates one of the fundamental problems with Brussels.
The European social model does exactly the opposite of what it's supposed to: it creates a two-tier labour market economy, bringing benefits for those in work and limiting the possibility of those without a job to get one.
in writing. - (SV) This report addresses a number of important issues which in principle should be dealt with by the Member States and not by the EU.
We have therefore voted against this report.
