Equality between men and women in the committees' work (debate) The next item is the report by Anna Záborská, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on gender mainstreaming in the work of the committees.
The report on gender mainstreaming within the work of the European Parliament's committees is the fruit of cooperation in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality during the first half of the present term.
My committee has come up with the first methodological model that can be applied to assess performance in all parliamentary committees.
I would like, however, to dwell on the three amendments pertaining to paragraphs 8, 21 and 22.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Madam President, the report of the chairwoman, Mrs Záborská, urges us toward an ever greater fulfilment of the most fundamental European issue, our common goal of equality between men and women, here within the walls of the European Parliament, with regard to the division of responsibilities and tasks within the existing parliamentary committees.
In my experience, scepticism here in Parliament with regard to the question of gender equality is in many cases the consequence of the fact that equality of opportunity is still erroneously regarded by most people as a struggle in which one group - in this case men - surrender power and privileges in the interests of another group - in this case women.
Here I would like to thank rapporteur Mrs Anna Záborská for her expert work.
Pursuant to Article 2 of the Treaty Establishing the European Economic Community, equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of community law - I emphasise that this fundamental principle, and thus also its advancement, is the indisputable task of the community.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FI) Madam President, I too wish to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Záborská, for the excellent work she has done.
I would also like to congratulate the President on her election.
Finally, I would like to say that the political groups should also be paying heed to gender equality.
The evaluation of the ways in which the committees have so far complied with Parliament's decision that the gender equality perspective should always permeate our work shows, unsurprisingly, that there is still an incredible amount to be done before we can say that the equality perspective really has been integrated into our work.
What is just as important, however, is that Members of the European Parliament too should receive training in equality.
Recital A states that some committees 'never take an interest' in gender mainstreaming.
Recital F refers to the 'continuous increase in the percentage of female Members of the European Parliament, from 17.5 % in 1979 to 30.33 % in 2004'.
I am a teacher, I taught for 39 years and I did so happily with many women.
I ask Members to dismiss it with their vote. (SK) In 1993, the UN General Assembly in Vienna stated for the first time the principle that human rights include the rights of women, and that the protection of those rights was a priority objective.
It is regrettable that the only speech made so far by a male Member of this House has been of the sort we have all witnessed before. (SK) Madam President, I too would like to congratulate you on your election to this position.
In terms of substance, however, interest in the topic has been confined to committees pledging to train their secretariats in gender mainstreaming.
Its subject is the practical implementation of gender mainstreaming in the committees, and, more specifically, the first interim report following on from the report I produced and which was adopted in 2003.
This working party has done its job very well, and the right procedure was followed, in that reports were produced by all the committees.
It is to be regretted, though, that the report has far from enough to say about the state of affairs in the groups, the delegations and the substance of policies, and so I should like to see us taking a more ambitious approach and managing, by 2009 - when elections are due - to achieve real agreements that make gender mainstreaming possible and put women in positions of leadership.
I congratulate the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality on having initiated this study and having prepared a report about an integrated outlook on gender equality in the work of the European Parliament's committees.
It was the Bureau that first took action on gender budgeting, which is to be a task for all of us in this House in 2008.
Such provisions should, however, be designed not only to ensure equal treatment for men and women, but also to protect the latter. (SK) Madam President, I would like to congratulate you on your election to this position, as well as on the fact that the first debate over which you are presiding happens to be about women.
It is important to encourage interest in the topic on the part of the committees, and to ensure that they pay adequate attention to gender mainstreaming.
The gender equality requirement should express itself in a practical approach that does not pit men and women against each other.
How, then, can we take decisions on any question or pass any law or regulation without taking into account their distinctive points of view?
I should like to thank the rapporteur in particular for her excellent work.
Even though the number of women in the European Parliament continues to increase, inequality continues to exist when it comes to the really important positions in the political bodies, such as committee chairs, etc.
Such gender-based statistics are very important for our future work. (ES) Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your election, and also Mrs Záborská on the work she has done on her report, which unfortunately once again points out that also in the public institutions there continues to be inequalities between men and women in positions of responsibility.
If our objective is to achieve full equality in society, we must offer an example of our own political commitment in the European institutions, and in the European Parliament in particular.
The momentum was created back in 2005 by the Committee on Women's Rights and Equality and with the work carried out by the High-Level Group on Gender Equality.
Under the inspired guidance of President Záborská, and with substantial contributions from the representatives of all 21 parliamentary committees in charge of equality issues and their secretariats, today, in the Year of Equal Opportunities for All, the first document of the EP embodying its political commitment to self-criticism as regards the application of an integrated approach has been submitted for approval.
We are calling, Commissioner, for rights to be restored and for a meritocracy to be set up in which men and women are equal. (PL) Madam President, the European Parliament represents European society, which is made up of 492 million individuals and 27 countries.
Most of the committees are favourably inclined towards gender equality issues, but in practice they fail to take them into account when setting their political priorities.
This group is also charged with working beyond the European Parliament and encouraging Member States to implement gender equality policies effectively.
In various documents we are imposing new duties on our citizens, but when it comes to the allocation of prestigious political positions in our Parliament, there is a ruthless struggle going on.
We should not put forward female candidates just because they are women but because we have among us many capable women who have already and on many occasions proved their merit in practice.
Before we impose legal obligations and recommendations on our citizens, let us examine how we are fulfilling them ourselves. (SV) Madam President, I wish to thank the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, together with Mrs Záborská, for an excellent initiative and an excellent report.
