European Union fishing fleet affected by the economic crisis (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the proposal for a Council Regulation instituting a temporary specific action aiming to promote the restructuring of the European Union fishing fleets affected by the economic crisis (Committee on Fisheries) - C6-0270/2008 -.
Unfortunately it was impossible for the Commission to adopt its proposal on 3 July as had initially been planned.
The Commission has engaged in very important and constructive discussion with the industry on this matter and the industry gives general support to our initiatives.
With regard to the official amendments that have been tabled by Parliament to the Commission proposal, we can accept the amendment referring to Recital 13 and, in fact, it should be applied to all vessels.
As regards the modification to the European Fisheries Fund proposed by the Commission, I appreciate the efforts at flexibility, although it would have been more practical to follow the European Parliament's proposals at the time they were adopted, proposals which were more appropriate for times of crisis, such as changes to engines, and which might, perhaps, have been able to prevent this steep descent towards scrapping which now faces us.
As you are well aware, we in the Party of European Socialists have foregone the opportunity to amend the proposal so that it can be approved unopposed at tomorrow's meeting, as you requested, with a view to its adoption by the Fisheries Council in March next year.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, evidently we are now continuing the debate in which, after almost two hours this morning, we were able to make some progress on this subject.
My third and final point is that all this will not prevent us from continuing the debate that we have been having with you since you took up your present position, on a reform of the common fisheries policy which will enable our fishermen to have a better idea of their capacity, so as to avoid the disruptions which occur when TACs and quotas have to be changed suddenly without warning and which, in terms of profitability, are obviously very damaging to the activities of our fishing industry.
One clause says that plans for reduction should begin before 30 November.
In Ireland we have a particular situation following a court judgment some years ago, whereby virtually all our deckhands are self-employed or share-fishermen and have to date been precluded from social security assistance at home when out of work for either economic or weather-related reasons, so I welcome this aspect.
Mr President, I think that we are all well aware of the negative impacts of the current oil and fuel prices.
Only in June, Age Concern Scotland said that fuel price rises will leave more vulnerable people struggling to keep warm this winter.
In a recent reply from the Commission on the extent of overcapacity in the EU fishing fleet, I was informed that the Commission estimates that we have, and I quote, 'significant overcapacity in some Community fisheries of, on average, at least 40%'.
This time last year I visited my own constituency in Castletownbere.
While I welcome these regulations and these proposals, I think we also need to implement the regulations that are there for the product that is coming in from outside the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to put a specific question that came up this morning in the Committee on Fisheries, raised by my colleague Carmen Fraga Estévez and myself.
On de minimis, as we said in the communication, we will be carrying out the necessary economic analyses in the coming weeks and months and we intend to come forward with a Commission proposal, if appropriate, if the economic analysis shows that we can move forward in this direction and if WTO rules allow, before the end of this year.
The Commission has launched a study on this issue which will be completed in September.
On the question of the reference period raised by both Mrs Fraga and Mrs Doyle, I can repeat again that the preliminary assessment of this suggestion indicates that we can take this on board.
The possible impact of using the 2008 figures could indirectly lead to more extensive application of the package.
So I can confirm that we will be moving forward and taking on board this suggestion that came from the Fisheries Committee this morning.
The current programming of the EFF Axis 1 for these measures is estimated to cover around EUR 600 million with an estimated additional EUR 250 million coming from national co-financing.
The Commission further estimates that EUR 550 million will have to come from the programming of EFF operational programmes.
Therefore this would leave a shortfall of EUR 600 million.
So I do not think it is correct to say that what we are proposing is simply a continuation of total decommissioning of vessels.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 10 July 2008.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) I welcome the approval of the proposal for a regulation to address the crisis in the fisheries sector.
It is important for our fishing operators to grasp all the opportunities that it offers.
The regulation makes provision for a special temporary measure with a deadline of 31 December 2010 whose objective is to support faster adaptation of the Community fleet to the present situation, cushioning social and economic consequences in the transitional period.
in writing - The emergency package that has been proposed by the Commission is a step towards putting a stop to the precarious situation faced by European fishermen.
