Part One Subject: Protection of the textile and clothing industries in the context of international trade The grave predicament of the textile and clothing industries in certain EU Member States, including Portugal, calls for a coherent and concerted public policy strategy in favour of investment in innovation, differentiation, training and conversion.
What measures is the Commission taking for the protection of the textile and clothing sector in the EU Member States in the context of new free-trade agreements with third countries, especially in Asia and as in the case of South Korea?
Since early 2009, trade in this sector has been fully liberalised.
Today European textiles are known in the world for their innovation and technical performance.
Member of the Commission. - I understand very well the strength of feeling.
This is a very important industry and I agree completely with David Martin who has studied the detail of the deal with South Korea.
With 250 pages of negotiating text on the table, the negotiations have not yet gathered sufficient momentum to come to an agreement that is ambitious and detailed enough.
However, they are still not as ambitious as those to which the European Union has committed, and fall below the level that science is telling us is required in order to keep global warming below 2°C, as was agreed by all the leaders of the major economies in July 2009 in L'Aquila, including the Americans, the Chinese and the leaders of the other countries that you mentioned.
Parliament has proposed interesting solutions: an increase in the European Regional Development Fund's rate from 2014, the creation of a new special fund commencing in 2014 and the opportunity to apply a reduced VAT rate, with energy efficiency and the use of renewable energies in mind.
An ad hoc 'Vulnerability FLEX' instrument will mobilise EUR 500 million from the European Development Fund.
Aware of these challenges, the European Commission has a development policy geared to fight poverty, promote sustainable development and tackle political challenges in order to help foster stability.
Subject: Suspension of negotiations on free trade agreement between the EU and Colombia In the light of the clear evidence that there continue to be killings of trade union activists in Colombia, and particularly in the light of the fact that in 2008, there was an increase of 25% in such killings, is the Commission prepared to recommend a suspension of negotiations on a free trade agreement between the EU and Colombia?
Member of the Commission. - The protection of human rights is of the highest priority in the European Union's relations with Colombia.
Subject: International trade recovery The visible slowdown in international trade growth figures in 2008 was followed by a further contraction in 2009, far exceeding the actual extent of the economic recession.
The recent meeting in New Delhi which I attended has provided new political momentum and, together with the upcoming G20 Summit in Pittsburgh, it will hopefully enable us to conclude the deal in 2010.
In the absence of Mr Moraes, I am afraid Question 27 falls.
I work very closely with Commissioner Fischer Boel when looking at trade agreements to make sure that the agriculture side of our agreements represents a real strength and a real opportunity.
I must, of course, also remind you that, with the energy and climate package approved last December, there will be sufficient money from the scheme to trade greenhouse gas emissions which, under the agreement reached, must be reduced by 50% in order to combat climate change and other related uses.
