Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great pleasure to tell you that 15 national presidents from the European Breast Cancer Coalition, Europa Donna, are following this debate in the public gallery.
Breast cancer affects all of us.
In the European Union, someone is diagnosed with it every two and a half minutes.
Breast cancer is still the most frequent cause of death in women between the ages of 35 and 55.
In countries like Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, 90% of all women aged between 50 and 69 already participate in screening programmes, but in my own country of Germany, barely 2% of women in this age group are offered screening.
These breast centres are extremely important because it has been shown that women who are treated in them have a higher chance of being cured.
Rates of survival in Sweden, for example, which has both nation-wide screening and breast centres, are 16% higher than in Austria, where neither of these exist.
It is precisely because of these disparities in the mortality and survival rates that we must develop a common European strategy in the fight against breast cancer.
The same is also true of national cancer registers, which are a fundamental prerequisite for reliable data, and which exist only in half of the Member States.
The fight against breast cancer is a public health priority.
However, according to estimates and studies, the lives of 25,000 women a year could have been saved if proper screening practices were applied to all women in the European Union.
It is important to say that many of the elements and proposals formulated emanate from the various actions undertaken by the Commission between the years 1987 and 2002 within the framework of three successive 'Europe Against Cancer' programmes.
The second important element of policies and choices is the proposal for a recommendation, which essentially also illustrates the Commission's commitment.
The proposal for a recommendation on cancer screening issued on 5 May.
This means that there must now be quantitative targets from the Member States concerning the rate of reduction in the death rate from cancer.
The Commission's proposal for a recommendation is a general framework which, of course, cannot have the binding force of legislation, given that we all know that these are issues that come under the jurisdiction of the Member States.
However, this proposal for a recommendation makes provision for the submission of a report on the implementation of cancer screening programmes on the basis of the statistics provided by the Member States by the end of the third year after the date of their approval, and this report will constitute the basis for evaluating and analysing any further action.
In addition to the proposal for a recommendation which, as I said, was the second basic element of the European Union's policy after the inventory of the existing situation, the third important element is the action programmes.
The Commission has undertaken a major action which relates to the public health programme for the years 2000-2008.
These programmes make use of the results and achievements of previous programmes, including the programme against cancer, and the relevant networks.
In 2004, the Commission is due to submit a final report to the European Parliament and the Council on the success of this 'Europe Against Cancer' programme.
This programme, the public health programme, includes exchanges of information and best practices between the Member States.
In conjunction with the priorities of the programme of work for 2003, the services will take account in the final choice of the priorities set out in the report and, of course, we shall take serious account of all the recommendations formulated.
That the European Union is not only active in the field of cancer prevention and the detection of this terrible disease, but also creates the opportunities to cure cancer through the research programme there are EUR 400 million available for this research programme must be heartening for the European citizen.
Interdisciplinary, multidisciplinary tackling of the problem leads to the best chances of cure and I think that every woman in the European Union has a right to this.
It is the most common form of cancer amongst women in Scotland and the second leading cause of death in all women.
The disease affects one in nine women and claims 13 000 lives in the UK every year.
Despite advances in diagnosis and treatment, breast cancer is the leading cause of death in women aged 35 to 55.
The Scottish breast-screening programme currently invites eligible women aged 50-64 every three years.
This is a good start, but we know there is always more that can be done.
Part of the reason is better diagnosis and also people understanding about genetics and family history, but our environment, lifestyle, habits and general quality of life may be related.
It is important that patients have access to useful information about breast cancer and support systems.
Finally, the importance of information and awareness runs through this report; this is our goal and we should all be aiming for this.
If we look at the report closely, we see that there is a 60% greater chance of developing breast cancer in Western Europe than in Eastern Europe.
For a long time little attention was paid to this and we looked too much at the technical side of the disease.
Mr President, Commissioner, on my last visit to the gynaecologist she told me that the risk in Belgium has risen from one woman in 10 to one woman in eight.
One in eight, though, is too high a risk and in Belgium we are in fourth place behind the Netherlands, Denmark and France.
We must also take into account that there are unacceptably large differences in the chances of survival, depending on whether you live in one country or another.
Early detection, diagnosis and treatment and aftercare help thousands of women to survive, but these chances of survival vary from 81% in France to 58% in Poland and Slovakia.
The quality of the research must therefore be reliable and in this regard it concerns me that only eight countries are considering doing a general screening test.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Jöns, on her report, which is rich in content and promises very good results, and I know what I am saying because I am head of a breast centre in Italy.
I fully endorse all the calls to the Member States to achieve a rate of voluntary participation in breast screening programmes by women of over 70%, a level which no country has yet reached.
I consider to be important the call to promote and disseminate in the Member States technical and care training initiatives and initiatives to provide patients suffering from breast cancer with psychological support, and to promote at Community level training and specialisation courses which - and this is my addition - are underwritten by university institutions, second level Masters degrees.
I can support the call to create European registers on tumours as soon as possible so that reliable, comparable data is, at last, available throughout the European Union on tumour growth in general.
The second point on which I would like to focus concerns item 7(g) of the report in question.
Mr President, Commissioner, in 2000, more than 216 000 women contracted breast cancer in the European Union and more than 79 000 women died because of it.
Breast cancer is the most common cause of death among women between the ages of 35 and 55.
The European guidelines for the early detection of breast cancer, which is the most effective means of achieving good results and a high chance of survival, are only recommendations and are not binding from a legal point of view.
This report, which is timely and very well written, aims to raise awareness throughout the European Union of this problem, which mainly affects women.
The Community programme 'Europe Against Cancer' has been very effective and an excellent example, and we should therefore follow the same path in the future.
The fight against breast cancer must be a health policy priority and the Member States must draw up effective health policies and strategies to ensure better early detection, diagnosis and treatment.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities calls in the report for the fight against breast cancer to become a health policy priority for the EU.
High-quality screening, diagnosis, treatment and aftercare for breast cancer must form an integrated whole and be provided in Member States.
In Europe, a woman dies of breast cancer every 20 minutes.
In Germany, every year 46 000 women suffer from this disease and 19 000 die from it.
Breast cancer affects women at the height of their professional and family responsibilities.
Our aims are high-quality national screening and the establishment of breast centres.
In Sweden, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands a nation-wide screening programme has led to a 30% reduction in the mortality rate.
We have now been allocated EUR 400 million in the sixth framework programme of research.
At the earliest possible opportunity, national cancer registers should be set up so that we may finally have informative data about the possible influence of risk factors like tobacco, diet, life-style and environment on the development of cancer.
This is particularly important with regard to breast cancer.
Although, as the rapporteur stresses, it is difficult to compare the available data in the absence of uniform standards, they do show that breast cancer incidence fluctuates from one country of the European Union to another.
As already mentioned, then, the disease is one of the main causes of death for women between the ages of 35 and 55, which is why it is essential to define early detection and overall care of patients as European priorities.
Taking into account the physical and psychological stress caused by breast cancer treatments, and in order to ensure the best possible quality of life for women, it is essential to act pre-emptively, through suitable information and prevention policies, to encourage women of all ages to undergo regular screening.
Mrs Jöns' report, as adopted by the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, seems to respond to these objectives.
In other words, we found that more funds are available for diseases which mainly afflict men, and I say this for the benefit of my male colleagues, rather than for the benefit of the diseases which hit women; in other words, when it comes to combating diseases and health problems, there is also gender discrimination.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to start by thanking the Commissioner for her words, which demonstrate the Commission's commitment to addressing this serious public health problem together with the Member States, which have competence in the field of health.
I therefore thank the rapporteur and congratulate her on her excellent report, which alerts us to the many worrying aspects of this specific type of cancer, both in Europe and throughout the world and urges us all to act urgently and make the fight against cancer one of the fundamental priorities of health policy in the European Union.
The challenge we face is drastically to reduce breast cancer mortality rates in Europe, but also to eliminate disparities between Member States where the quality of health care is concerned and, consequently, women's chances of survival.
Member States must offer screenings at two-year intervals for women between the ages of 50 and 69 years, as recommended, in fact, in the European Guidelines for Mammography Screening; secondly: diagnosis.
Let us therefore make the best use not only of the EUR 400 million provided for cancer research by the sixth framework programme of research, but also of the new action programme in the field of public health (2003-2008), to develop innovative initiatives and projects.
Indeed, the statistics just quoted - one women in ten is or will suffer from this disease - show that it is the most frequent cause of death for women aged between 35 and 55, and that we might have been able to prevent the deaths of 75 000 women per year if we had set up a much earlier prevention programme.
However, my practical experience in this sector suggests to me that there are other obstacles, sometimes socioeconomic and often cultural.
The fight against breast cancer must be part of a large-scale programme and continue to be a subject of research.
It seems to me that the report on breast implants, approved in February of this year, is a positive and high-quality contribution to this aspect of women's health.
Mr President, Commissioner, the own-initiative report on breast cancer by the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities is a balanced, well-considered one.
According to recent statistics from the World Health Organisation, approximately 80 000 women die from breast cancer in the Union every year.
It is the most frequent cancer in women and the most frequent cause of death in middle-aged women in the EU.
To date, two defective genes have been identified as causing breast cancer.
The decision by the European Patent Office will be tremendously important.
The point has frequently been made in this debate that breast cancer is the most common cause of death in the European Union in women between 35 and 55.
One of the key points is that in the Member States there are currently still too many differences in the diagnosis, the quality of the treatment and the care of breast cancer and therefore in the chances of survival.
It is therefore time for the European Union to adopt a more active approach in the combating of breast cancer in all countries, including the candidate Member States, in order to lift care to a higher level.
In short, a splendid and very specific report deserving of implementation and the sort of report that merits further discussion in this House.
It is therefore important for the Member States to develop a wide network of certified multidisciplinary breast units which meet specific quality criteria.
The Sixth Framework Programme allocates funds to research: that is all well and good, but we need to insist that these funds for research increase, thanks, not least, to increased commitment from the Member States.
Rapid treatment is essential; there are many women who have few resources at hand in this respect, to teach them how to examine themselves and at what stage in their lives they need to seek treatment.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
The question of healthy food has given rise to a great deal of interest and that is not unwarranted if we think about the crises that have hit the food industry over recent years.
The specific dossier we are debating today concerns official controls on food of animal origin.
The proposal contains special rules for controls on meat, shellfish, fisheries products and milk and dairy products, but of course the debate focuses on the problem of meat inspections.
The proposed system of official controls which are carried out at the fresh meat production stage has the following characteristics: First, it is based on scientific data.
The official veterinarian has a central role in the overall supervision and inspection system.
The basic responsibility always lies with the public authorities and the objective is for there to be better allocation of the human resources of the public authorities, depending on the risk presented by the businesses, by which we mean their record of compliance with the rules.
These new rules mainly aim to protect consumers from risks associated with the consumption of these products.
The proposal for a regulation is an integral and important part of the overall endeavour to improve food safety within the EU, product quality in third countries exporting to the EU and to establish European food legislation.
Things are again different when traditional production methods are used on farms with lower production and in outlying geographical areas.
The concept of 'from stable to table' is an important basis for a high level of food safety.
The effectiveness of the system is dependent upon the quality of information going from the farmer to the shop, but - and I would like particularly to draw your attention to this - also back to the farmer.
I am convinced that the new approach will, in any case, lead to an improvement in food safety in the EU.
It is essential for the sake of consumers and, indeed, producers and suppliers that we have a sensible regime for the protection of public health.
In relation to fisheries and aquaculture products, there are some very particular challenges.
The current proposal in relation to toxin levels was based on studies carried out in Canada and Japan on mussels, and the effects on the scallop industry of the type of controls which have been envisaged could be very significant.
Admittedly, all the decisions taken testify to the European Parliament's political will, but they will bring no benefits if they are not correctly applied.
I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Schnellhardt, on the quality of his work in this area, which seeks to set up a rigorous monitoring system for both European and imported products.
We will not reap the full benefits of the new concept developed by the European Commission and often discussed in this field, 'from farm to table', without continuous, adequate monitoring of the food on the market, from when it is produced to when it is consumed.
Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of all German veterinarians.
The question therefore is whether the outcome of the vote today reflects Parliament's views.
We have succeeded in laying down the general principles of European food safety policy.
Today we are taking a decision about the way in which we in Europe organise our system for controlling products of animal origin.
The BBC recently showed a documentary about abuses in the Dutch poultry sector.
I think that we must place the responsibility with the producer in a way that is recognisable for consumers.
Finally, I should like the meat sector to take a critical look at itself.
There are certain small details about which we do not agree, but these are so insignificant that I do not need to list them.
Clear and focused legislation is needed, because we all know that the real inspections take place on the ground, locally and regionally.
When it comes to small businesses, I must ask that we turn some of our attention to my own report, which will be appearing shortly and which deals with the costs of the inspections.
Of course, producers do have responsibility, and we have talked here about their individual responsibility, but so do consumers, who have to take responsibility for their health by informing themselves.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the key point in food safety is official controls on products of animal origin intended for human consumption, which is the subject of the Schnellhardt report that we are considering today.
I think that primary production of foodstuffs for private use, and the direct supply by the producer of small quantities to the final consumer or local shops and restaurants should be considered as traditional food production which should have specific sales rules.
I therefore support Amendments Nos 11 and 12 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
With this in mind, it is important to compensate the producers and farmers who achieve better results when assessed by granting them a reduction in the costs arising from official controls.
I think that official assistant vets should be able to take part in ante mortem inspections in abattoirs.
Still on the subject of game, I do, however, have reservations regarding the Commission's proposal, and in particular the presence of aged open fractures.
Also, regarding the formation of gas in the gastro-intestinal tract, you will be aware that hunters eviscerate the game immediately as a food safety precaution and I do not see how the inspecting or official vet can therefore monitor the presence of gas in the gastro-intestinal tract.
Adequate food controls are important in order to guarantee the greatest possible protection of consumers.
There is still much to be done to protect consumer safety throughout the European Union and in the enlargement countries.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his report - one aspect of which has a particular significance for my constituency in Wales - and, as other Members have covered most aspects of the report, I would like to focus on that particular issue.
The harvesting of cockles is a long-standing and much-valued industry in coastal areas of Wales, such as the Burry Inlet and the Welsh Dee.
The purpose of this report is to improve controls under the food hygiene package, and our first priority is the health of the public.
To do that we need very clear and detailed rules, but there must be a level playing field across Europe, and in this case that means a harmonised and more effective method of testing.
This report will take us in that direction and it is very welcome.
The fact is, as has been referred to in this debate, the preparation of some foodstuffs - as shown, for example, in the Panorama programme - has been quite disgraceful.
The consumer demands it, public safety requires it.
Mr President, I should like to compliment the Commission on its proposal and I hope that Parliament will not depart from it too much.
We need food safety.
This report is even more significant, though, because meat, milk and fish are basic foodstuffs.
Professional controls are of crucial importance here.
We cannot treat large slaughterhouses like artisanal small businesses.
Let us start with the question of flexibility for small businesses raised by the last speaker and by numerous other Members of the European Parliament.
We totally agree on the need to safeguard the flexibility of small businesses, in accordance with the guidelines laid down in the first and second package of health rules.
I referred in my first intervention to special cases in which flexibility is addressed with particular sensitivity.
Thus, the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 3, 11, 12 and 138, provided that certain changes are made to their wording.
A second basic element to which numerous speakers referred concerns the role of the official veterinarian in abattoirs.
I referred to this in my first intervention and this will apply to both large and small businesses.
Amendments Nos 85 and 86 are not accepted, because we believe that they will restrict flexibility without any justification.
Point 6 of Amendment No 21 on poultry meat and rabbit meat is not in keeping with the approach which has been adopted for fresh meat, as provided for in Annex I to the proposal.
The proposal in Amendment No 87 to separate production and control responsibilities within the business is considered particularly constructive.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 127, 135, 136, 139 and 140 because they are not in keeping with the line taken by the Committee on the Environment or the line taken by the Commission and the authorities responsible for European feedingstuffs legislation.
I would therefore ask you to re-analyse the content of these amendments and not to proceed to vote for them.
Consequently, Amendments Nos 71, 72, 73, 101, 102, 103 and 107 are not accepted.
The Commission text is based on scientific proof.
This applies to the serious risks affecting food safety.
The introduction of excessive flexibility at this point is of no benefit to consumers; consequently, the Commission does not accept Amendment No 6, the first part of Amendment No 122 or Amendment No 123.
Amendments Nos 4, 25 and 70 repeat the requirements already provided for in our proposal for official controls to be carried out on feedingstuffs and food which the Commission submitted last March.
Consequently, we do not agree with Amendment No 38 but we do agree with Amendment No 130.
The Commission's position on all the amendments may be obtained from the secretariat.
My thanks to Mr Schnellhardt and all the members of this committee who helped with this dossier, which is especially important to producers and consumers.
Mr President, I am sorry that, because of the time, we have a change to the agenda and my report will have to be postponed until 3 in the afternoon.
I would ask, citing Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure and on behalf of my political group, for my report, which is outside the compromise package and concerns labelling, to be voted without debate and would merely ask the Commission to make the relevant statement.
Mr President, on this point I do not mind what we do.
The Commission has made commitments concerning labelling in other legislation.
However, in order to maintain the consistency of our legislative framework, this should be addressed in the Labelling Directive and not in the current proposal.
According to our Rules of Procedure, only the President of Parliament can decide whether to cancel a debate.
Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca rightly applied Rule 145.
Part 3 of the preamble to this amendment concerns an external source of protection.
The secretariat tells me that you are correct.
The amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets state that the figures do comply with the financial perspectives up to 2006.
Souchet, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the common organisation of the market in cereals (COM(2003) 23 - C5-0042/2003 - 2003/0008(CNS)) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Report (A5-0175/2003) by Dominique F.C.
Afterwards uncertainty arose about how the text of paragraph 52 would then read once Amendment No 11, again as an addition, had been adopted.
Mr President, I therefore propose removing the obligatory aspect of my proposal and at the same time clarifying the content in the following format: 'calls on the Member States to introduce the gender dimension into the broadcasting of sporting competitions'.
However, the right to freedom of expression is highly protected.
Even if, for example, the Conference of Presidents decides to deal with a report without debate, this decision can be overturned by 32 Members.
Then we might as well forget all the articles protecting this minority right in the Rules of Procedure, particularly Article 111.
We are not going to agree, Mr Posselt, because I stand by my original interpretation of Rule 145.
Rule 145 makes it very clear, however, that at any time during a debate the list of speakers may be closed.
We had a proposal from the floor that the President then adopted in his own name and put before the House.
I am not going to debate this with you, Mr Posselt, because I want to go for lunch, and I am not going to agree with you.
There seem to be more and more cases now where the rapporteur speaks for five minutes, and then the Council for fifteen minutes and the Commission for ten to fifteen minutes, and often not even really on the subject of the report.
All we can do, in terms of the other institutions, is give them an indicative speaking time before debates.
In the first place it seems important to me that the democratically taken decisions of this assembly are respected.
As you know, most of the French and German Members are the greatest advocates of this assembly in Strasbourg, but they are not present at the moment.
This is in contrast to those who would like to meet in Brussels.
As you know, Mrs Gillig, I was not in the Chair when the decision was taken, but I am 100% behind the ruling of the Vice-President in the Chair at the time.
I regret, however, that the European Commission has proposed few solutions for SMEs, since studies need to be carried out on the various forms of participation in SMEs and because alternatives must be considered. . (PT) Following recent reports that have called into question the reliability of the controls organised in various Member States, updating the rules on official controls of products of animal origin is crucial, particularly in the case of fresh meat, bivalve molluscs and milk.
A definition of legislation was therefore needed, so that the authorisation procedure could be harmonised.
It is therefore to be hoped that the precautionary principle - the basis for every European food policy - will also apply whenever a new application for a smoke flavouring is made. . (PT) I have voted in favour of this report, which highlights the importance of clarifying rules in the field of human health.
Lastly, I decided also to support the report when it states that it is crucial to include explicit provisions on public access to documents.
In comparison, the Commission's proposal appears as a step in the right direction.
We have therefore chosen to vote against these reports in their entirety.
We in the British Conservative delegation reluctantly took the decision that we were unable to support the recommendations in the Cunha report.
However, we support the Commission in its legislative resolution and want the Council to come to an agreement as soon as it possibly can.
No clear ground rules are provided, however, for the eight per cent of European farmers who are under 35 years of age and who are the future of agriculture. . (PT) We have voted in favour of rejecting this report because it accepts, albeit in a somewhat watered-down form, the principle of decoupling aid from production, because it does not contain any real proposal for reducing and setting a limit for CAP aid and because, in certain aspects, it makes the original proposal worse.
This reform of the CAP over 10 years is a commitment to a new type of modern agriculture, which takes into account all of the social, economic and environmental realities of the agricultural profession.
The EU subsidy system was a means of achieving greater economies of scale and increasing production per hectare.
The survival of small-scale farmers and villages in southern Europe has become highly dependent on this subsidy policy.
In northern Europe, on the other hand, most of the small farmers have already been 'cleared away', and public opinion regards the agricultural funds as a kind of bureaucracy, a waste of money and environmental pollution which must be brought to an end as soon as possible.
Jeggle and Souchet often cause me little problems but Mr Cunha's report is different.
We also believe that the Fischler proposals will ensure the future of European agriculture in an enlarged Europe of 25 Member States.
The Commission reforms will put us in a strong position when we sit around the table at the WTO talks in Cancun.
From these two perspectives, the European Parliament's proposal is therefore a compromise, providing scope for further necessary changes in the future.
Overall, we have therefore chosen, despite many objections, to support the report in the final vote.
The June Movement wishes to see the aid completely done away with and is unable to support a redistribution of the aid whereby new areas are brought under the umbrella of aid arrangements of one kind or another.
I also wish to emphasise that the European Parliament must always support the development of a farming policy that respects the environment, making support a priority only for farmers who comply with Community rules, and for young people wishing to become farmers.
The June Movement wishes to see the aid completely done away with and is unable to support a redistribution of the aid whereby new areas are brought under the umbrella of aid arrangements of one kind or another.
The June Movement believes that the only real way to abolish discrimination is by creating equal conditions through cutting back on agricultural aid with a view to phasing it out entirely. . (PT) This proposal for a regulation for the cereals sector highlights the strategy of the latest CAP reforms: lower prices and the gradual deregulation of the markets.
Furthermore, a 45% reduction in cereal prices has led to an increased cost to the budget of EUR 630 million.
At the same time, wheat producers' incomes are being reduced, because there is 50% rather than full compensation, prices and compensation remain constant and are not adjusted on the basis of average Community inflation and, finally, with the proposal to abolish monthly increases in the intervention price, the average intervention price is being reduced.
The June Movement wishes to see the aid completely done away with and is unable to support a redistribution of the aid whereby new areas are brought under the umbrella of aid arrangements of one kind or another.
The June Movement believes that the only real way to abolish discrimination is by creating equal conditions through cutting back on agricultural aid with a view to phasing it out entirely. . (PT) This proposal for a regulation seeks to phase out the common organisation of the market in the dried fodder sector from the 2008/2009 marketing year onwards.
The Commission's reasoning turns on environmental issues, specifically the use of fossil fuel for dehydrating and even the use of irrigation.
The June Movement wishes to see the aid completely done away with and is unable to support a redistribution of the aid whereby new areas are brought under the umbrella of aid arrangements of one kind or another.
The June Movement believes that the only real way to abolish discrimination is by creating equal conditions through cutting back on agricultural aid with a view to phasing it out entirely. . (PT) The rice sector is currently experiencing difficulties as a result of the imbalances triggered by the simultaneous increase in internal production and the rise in imports, due to the preferences and customs reductions of recent years.
This proposal for a regulation is unacceptable.
The proposal also overlooks the fact that this crop entails some of the highest costs in the farming sector in terms of investment in machinery, equipment and installations, which are mostly custom-made.
The June Movement wishes to see the aid completely done away with and is unable to support a redistribution of the aid whereby new areas are brought under the umbrella of aid arrangements of one kind or another.
Account must be taken, however, of specific situations such the current state of affairs in Portugal, particularly in the outermost region of the Azores, where a quota increase must be guaranteed in order not to penalise a sector that has significant socio-economic ramifications, in a region that faces major structural disadvantages. . (DE) I am to a large extent in agreement with the reports on the organisation of the milk market, because the quota arrangements are being retained until 2014 as an instrument to regulate production and guarantee prices, which will give the reliability that is so essential for the continued existence of the family farm and will give farmers the security to enable them to plan accordingly.
It is infuriating that the quota granted in compensation for the reduction in target prices is increased by a larger percentage in the developed and a smaller percentage in the less developed countries.
For example, the proposals make provision for Greece for an increase in the quota of 6 000 - 14 000 tonnes and for 335 000 - 110 000 for Holland.
The June Movement wishes to see the aid completely done away with and is unable to support a redistribution of the aid whereby new areas are brought under the umbrella of aid arrangements of one kind or another.
The June Movement believes that the only real way to abolish discrimination is by creating equal conditions through cutting back on agricultural aid with a view to phasing it out entirely. . (PT) Milk production is of fundamental importance in the less favoured regions.
The transfer of production rights without land and lower prices, together with the absence of practical measures for regions with specific difficulties (such as the closure of joint milking parlours, the lack of support for the costs of transporting milk in inland or mountainous areas, etc.), have all led to the concentration of production and to thousands of farmers abandoning their land, specifically in Portugal.
The June Movement wishes to see the aid completely done away with and is unable to support a redistribution of the aid whereby new areas are brought under the umbrella of aid arrangements of one kind or another.
This is why I cannot accept the proposals that have been put to us. . (PT) More has been said today than ever before about multifunctionality in agriculture, particularly in the context of the current CAP reform.
The social, environmental and territorial effects of farming have not, in fact, been given the attention they deserve by the Community institutions, whose farming policies have largely focused on qualitative and economic issues.
The June Movement wishes to see the aid completely done away with and is unable to support a redistribution of the aid whereby new areas are brought under the umbrella of aid arrangements of one kind or another.
To that extent we believe it is important to state, having given our agreement to the Oostlander report, that, if and when it comes to a decision on Turkey's membership of the European Union, it will be up to individuals to decide freely, that any such decision lies in the future, and that our agreement to the Oostlander report in no way forms a preliminary decision anticipating any such decision that may be taken in the future.
Fundamentally, we think that Turkey has its place in the European Union, as it has had a place for several decades in the Council of Europe.
We do not like the wording, but because the rest of the report is constructive, we chose to vote in favour of it. . (FR) We voted against the Oostlander report on Turkey's application for membership, even though the rapporteur demonstrated some desire to moderate the usual positions of the Council and the Commission.
In particular, the report seems to have a good appreciation of the immense amount of work that remains to be done in order to establish values similar to those of the European Union, not only in Turkey's State superstructures (which would involve dismantling the authoritarian State), but also throughout its population.
So who can understand Parliament's vote in favour of it today?
Others voted in favour in order not to give a negative signal to Turkey and instantly dismiss its accession.
The confusion of the implicit questions put to MEPs and the loss of Amendment No 12 led me to vote against this report.
Only the day before yesterday, my parliamentary group drew up an initiative on the situation in Turkey, in which various human rights organisations were involved.
First, in relation to recital D and paragraph 24, we should recognise that there are a range of electoral systems used in the different European countries, and in fact around one-quarter of current MPs in Turkey are from Kurdish origin.
Second, in relation to paragraph 3, whilst reiterating our strong desire on progress in relation to Cyprus, we point out that this has never been made a direct precondition for Turkish EU accession - and it is wrong to change that in this resolution.
The muzzling of political opposition extends to banning parties such as the Turkish Communist Party and HADEP.
Under the provisions of the European Treaties, particularly the Schengen and Maastricht treaties, 70 million Turks (100 million in twenty years' time), will be able to come and swell the numbers of immigrants in our countries, thus completing the collapse of our social welfare systems, which are primarily aimed at our compatriots on the lowest incomes.
The first reason concerns the perspective on which it is based: the planned accession of Turkey to the European Union.
I think that the European Union's strategy in response to Turkey's application for membership, since the decision in Helsinki in 1999 granting it the status of a candidate country, is unrealistic.
It is the Heads of State and Government who will decide when they meet at the European Council in December 2004, based on an evaluation report on the situation in Turkey, if a timetable should be set for beginning accession negotiations.
Hence the need for clarification, specifically in defining the matters to which it should apply; in mobilising all national players to ensure that participation in the process is not wholly confined to a small elite; in coordinating it with other Community instruments, making this method a complement to legislation and not 'alternative legislation in disguise'.
I also welcome the call for the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities to be consulted on issues that fall within its sphere of competence and I recognise the merit of the European Commission's drawing up a study on the effectiveness of the method.
It was the Lisbon Council, in March 2000, that launched this expression, but with a definition that was too vague.
There is a complete lack of understanding. . (PT) I have voted in favour of the report, and welcome the initiative by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Various Members of this Parliament had questions on this, but we did not place this on the agenda in the plenary session for reasons of discretion.
I would nevertheless like all this to be investigated. . (PT) Sport is a sector in which major inequalities between men and women still exist.
The report on breast cancer in the European Union is excellent, and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has therefore voted in favour of this.
The report on women in sport states that sport is an expression of the right to equality and the freedom of all women.
Women's sport is very good, but that does not make it a fundamental right.
The title, 'Women and Sport', might itself have been confusing, but the content is entirely beyond comprehension!
I did pick out some classic passages, on access to sport as a fundamental right, on sport as a highly sexual and stereotyped area where the dominant models of virility and femininity are reproduced but also broken, and on socially discriminatory and sexually stereotyped treatment by the media, which leave us speechless.
I therefore support everything that is done to remedy that situation, and I would like to highlight the funding that I succeeded in having adopted by the European Parliament and the Council when I drew up a report on the sixth framework programme for research and development.
According to the WHO, 216 000 new cases of breast cancer were diagnosed in the European Union in 2000, and in that year 79 000 women died of the disease.
This is the most common cancer in women, affecting one in nine and is the most common cause of death in women between the ages of 35 and 55.
The Member States are invited to offer all women aged between the ages of 50 and at least 69 a mammography every two years, as laid down in the European Directives on Guaranteeing the Quality of Mammographic Screening, since only eight of the fifteen Member States currently have national screening programmes.
All women suffering from this form of cancer must have the right to be treated by multidisciplinary teams.
Hence our vote in favour of the report. . (PT) I congratulate the rapporteur on this report, which is so important and timely.
Amongst the rapporteur's suggestions, I would highlight making the fight against breast cancer a priority for health policy, implementing a two-yearly screening model for all women between the ages of 50 and 69 and the regular attendance of doctors and paramedical staff on further training courses.
In 2000, in Europe, this disease of the industrialised world lead to the death of more than 79 000 people.
Mobile screening programmes, which have been running Belgium in the province of Liège, for more than ten years, have enabled more than 70 000 people to be examined.
The same problem occurs in Danish: Forbrydelser also means Verbrechen.
Mr van Hulten has invited me to respect democratic decisions.
Mr President, respect for Community law is a fundamental part of the future of Europe.
The communication that inspired this report demonstrates the Commission's desire for transparency and efficiency.
A complaint lodged by a citizen may therefore also be the subject of a petition to Parliament lodged by the same citizen.
It seems both desirable and logical for decisions made by Community institutions regarding complaints, appeals or petitions to be coordinated between the institutions concerned in order to provide an effective service for citizens.
It should also be considered that this was when the position of Ombudsman was introduced and the right of petition was recognised in many Member States, which considerably increased the number of appeal cases.
The purpose of Solvit is to settle, very quickly - and when I say very quickly I mean within ten weeks, with four additional weeks in the event of additional problems- recurrent cross-border problems concerning the internal market, and to prevent legal actions.
This communication serves two purposes.
There have frequently been many criticisms in this respect.
So now we have this communication from the Commission, which recognises that the handling of this intercommunication requires a better framework, mainly from an administrative point of view, in the area of permanent personal contact with the citizens who have submitted the complaint or petition, and in the area of the classification of complaints, treating them properly and reasonably.
The agreement must be maintained up to the end.
It is also the first time the Commission has adopted public rules on how to deal with infringements of Community law by Member States.
Those public rules are often a marked improvement on the practice in a number of our Member States.
We only have to look at last year's report by the Ombudsman, which shows that in the year 2002, Commissioner, 75% of complaints were about your institution.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at the end of the debates on cases of breaches of human rights.
This was the last colonial foothold in Asia at the time.
The Netherlands had to cede this territory 40 years ago under pressure from America, which was looking to establish good relations with Indonesia.
Having said this, and whilst acknowledging that we should not always declare ourselves against any armed action, all the evidence suggests, as indicated in our joint resolution, that we must do everything possible to bring this armed conflict to an end and to ensure that dialogue reopens between the Indonesian Government and the separatist movements in Aceh, as well as the representatives of Irian Jaya.
The population has been terrorised, both by the Indonesian military and by the GAM rebels, since 1976.
Over the years, negotiations between the GAM and the Indonesian military have never delivered anything significant.
Military solutions have never lasted in Aceh.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the historic circumstances show that we as the European Community cannot remain disinterested with regard to what is happening in Indonesia, Aceh and Papua New Guinea.
The unrest is exacerbated by the Indonesian Government's exploitation of the province's gas and petroleum resources as well as the policy of transmigration which has seen many Javanese come to live and work in the province's coastal and industrial belts.
It is highly unlikely that the military option is the only one that will work in the long term.
The Indonesian Government must take measures to protect the human rights defenders and members of the press who speak out about these atrocities.
Mr President, I would like to divide my speech into two sections: I will first of all discuss Aceh and then I will go on to look at Papua.
The Commission, by way of its Rapid Reaction Mechanism, contributed EUR 2.3 million to the deployment of 50 international observers in the province of Aceh.
On 17 and 18 May in Tokyo, the Commission, with the other co-Chairs, participated in extensive talks lasting 11 hours between the Indonesian Government and the GAM (Free Aceh Movement) in order to save the cease-fire, which was in a precarious situation.
The situation is very grave, the information we are receiving is more and more worrying and the human rights violations are extremely serious.
As far as the Commission is concerned, a military operation will not produce sustainable peace in Aceh, even if supposedly implemented with the best of intentions.
The international community will, however, have to call on the Indonesian Government to guarantee access to the province for NGOs and international humanitarian bodies and to guarantee their safety, as this is a vital precondition for the rapid and transparent provision of assistance, needed desperately by the citizens and the populations most affected.
We therefore encourage the government and the GAM to propose as soon as possible a framework allowing for the resumption of these negotiations.
In 2002, following the conclusions of a study carried out jointly by Indonesian and European experts, the Commission mobilised funds from its Rapid Reaction Mechanism to support the implementation of this law by the Indonesian authorities, making available to them an expert on decentralisation issues and Indonesia.
The Commission is aware of the Presidential Decree of 27 January 2003 creating three new provinces in Papua and the fact that the Indonesian Parliament, which must confirm the creation of these provinces, has not yet had its say on the matter.
We are no less concerned about the consequences application of this decree could have on the implementation of the Special Autonomy Law for Papua.
The Commission calls on the Indonesian Government to implement the Special Law and maintains its offer of assistance in this framework.
Similarly, the Commission reiterates its support for the territorial integrity of Indonesia and is mindful of respect for human rights in this province, as in all the other provinces of Indonesia.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at the end of the debates.
The regime bullies thousands of forced labourers, thousands of political detainees languish in the country's prisons, and the President, once democratically elected with an overwhelming majority, the holder of the Nobel Prize - and also the holder of the European Parliament's Sakharov Prize - was imprisoned for years and then, after a short period in which the hope of a thin silver lining of democracy could be seen on the horizon, was arrested again on 31 May this year together with nine other members of the country's parliament.
However, it must also be clear that the Council, the Commission and in particular Parliament, in the interests of the people of Burma, do not want to close all doors in Burma.
Mr President, the arrest at the weekend of Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of the Burmese National League for Democracy, is deplorable and shows that the military regime in Burma has no intention of democratic reform.
We demand the immediate release of Aung San Suu Kyi, as well as the release of all political prisoners and the lifting of restrictions against the NLD, universities and other institutions.
The very worrying deterioration in the political situation in the last few days is just the latest twist in a story of consistent human rights abuses.
Ethnic minorities such as the Karin and the Shan continue to suffer violent oppression, and there are over 130 000 refugees in camps on the Thai-Burma border.
The situation has clearly deteriorated, and the Council should take action immediately to implement the measures that it agreed in its common position.
The opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi has spent half of the past 14 years under house arrest.
Mr President, I agree with and support most of what has been said, but I wish to raise two points.
The first concerns the whereabouts of Aung San Suu Kyi.
She has not been seen for many days, in fact since the end of May, when it was reported that up to 70 people were killed by the junta army and that she suffered a head injury.
We need to know immediately what kind of situation she is in.
I understand now that all the political groups have agreed to this being removed.
In 2002 Aung San Suu Kyi was released from house arrest, and there were justified hopes of reform, and so the EU decided to withdraw certain sanctions until the end of the year.
And lastly, why does the Council not immediately apply the sanctions that it adopted in its common position of 28 April?
With the arrest of Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi and 19 other members of her party, the military junta has of course again shown that it does not wish to improve conditions of democracy in the country.
It should demand that all prisoners be released unconditionally and that a genuine dialogue with the opposition be resumed, for it is of course only through dialogue involving all the relevant political actors that a solid and legitimate democracy might be re-established.
The confirmation by the Burmese authorities that Aung San Suu Kyi and leading members of her party would be detained for their own protection is of great concern and the Commission fully supports all of the calls for the immediate and unconditional release of Aung San Suu Kyi and her party leaders.
The decisions by the Burmese Government to detain Aung San Suu Kyi and her collaborators, to close the offices of the National League for Democracy and to close the universities are significant steps backwards for the international reconciliation process and they must be suspended as soon as possible.
As regards the application of the sanctions mentioned in the Union's common position on Burma of 28 April 2003, I can assure the Members of Parliament that the Commission is monitoring the situation very closely and is ready to support the implementation of these sanctions as soon as possible if the situation does not improve.
Allow me to say, from a personal point of view, how much I respect and admire this great politician, Aung San Suu Kyi, winner of our Parliament's Sakharov prize, the Nobel Prize for Peace, and a torch of democracy and freedom.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place this afternoon following the debates.
Mr President, on numerous occasions the European Parliament has called for a widening of sanctions against the Mugabe regime and their rigorous enforcement.
The Council did renew, but in a weakened form, the sanctions against the regime.
The travel ban against Mugabe and senior members of his regime has not been effectively enforced.
In November last year it was left to the European Parliament to enforce the sanctions by denying the Zimbabwean representatives access to the European Parliament.
If African countries are willing to wreck the ACP for the sake of defending Mugabe, let them do it, but let us stop making exceptions all the time with respect to this travel ban.
The situation is very much more serious at the moment.
There are daily troubles in Zimbabwe, food and fuel are increasingly in short supply, inflation is running at 50% a month, and consumer prices will rise by 300% at least in the next few months.
Zimbabweans are starving, 12.6 million are in need of food aid, and the strikes and demonstrations which have been taking place are evidence of the failure of the international community to act effectively against Mugabe.
The accusation: being a prostitute of the opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai.
With the greatest possible emphasis I call on the Commission and the Council to reject this regime without compromise.
We too, therefore, find ourselves in a quandary: if we do not want to let the people starve, we have to help them, but in so doing we are also unintentionally helping to keep Mugabe in power.
We shall continue to come up against this problem, and if the Commission grants a travel permit for ACP talks or other meetings, then the regime will be strengthened still further, and our position, namely that we are in favour of the restoration of the rule of law and democracy and in favour of the protection of human rights, will be weakened.
I would like to emphasise, however, that, in a secret ballot, a good quarter of those present at the ACP meeting agreed with us, and some delegates even dared to say so openly, and to condemn, very forcefully, what is happening in Zimbabwe.
However, we must remind all those who sit around the table with Mugabe in Africa that to support such a regime cannot be to follow the path of legality.
The MDC is exerting pressure through strikes and political actions, and we must support this pressure.
I call on Parliament to exercise pressure and to continue to do so and not to continually remain divided as to the way in which we do this.
We must know what we want, the Council must know what it wants and must not add a sentence about Zimbabwe in some back room somewhere, like in the G8.
Your task, Mr Mugabe, was to give the people of Zimbabwe a new future and a new equality, including equality of rights.
Mr Mugabe, I have had the privilege of meeting many worthy campaigners for human rights and democracy in your splendid country, Zimbabwe.
The violence committed against them by your troops and soldiers will not prevail.
As far as the Commission is concerned, it is aware of the fact that conditions in Zimbabwe are very unstable, to use diplomatic language.
We strongly condemn the repressive measures taken recently with regard to the opposition, in particular the arrest on Monday of the leader of the opposition, Morgan Tsvangirai, and other members of the MDC, the Movement for Democratic Change.
Given the gravity of the situation, the Commission fully supported the publication on 3 June by the Council presidency of a declaration by the Union on Zimbabwe.
We are going to continue with these projects to provide direct assistance to the country, particularly in the social sector and as regards respect for human rights and the rule of law.
We must once again, and relentlessly, emphasise that these concepts are essential elements of the Cotonou Agreement that links the European Union and Zimbabwe.
It fully shares the concern expressed at the Evian G8 meeting regarding the terrible situation in this country.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Motions for resolutions on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law: Joint motion, tabled on behalf of the PPE-DE, PSE, ELDR, Verts/ALE, GUE/NGL and EDD Groups, on the situation in Indonesia, in particular in the provinces of Aceh and Papua (B5-0293/2003, B5-0298/2003, B5-0301/2003, B5-0302/2003, B5-0307/2003, B5-0311/2003) (Before the vote) Mr President, could you accept, by way of a verbal amendment, that I am left with only the most famous names among human rights activists.
The human rights organisation we want to mention here is Amnesty International.
Mr van den Bos has the floor.
The latter is indispensable both for financial reasons - that is to say, reasons linked to negotiations with the World Trade Organisation - and because of consumers' demands and the need to respond to a new type of demand, oriented less towards production and more towards the rural world.
These are the foundations on which the Greek Government and the ?U are building their policy in the Balkans: subjugation, abolition of any concept of national independence, in order to facilitate the penetration of the monopolies and the plundering of peoples and countries.
The report also repeats an old desire from previous EP resolutions in 1987 and 2002 to the effect that Turkey must acknowledge the genocide that took place in Armenia in 1915.
I am able to concur with everything that is being said in this House about sport - but not that the EU should be given the right to legislate in respect of this area too.
Breast cancer is the most common cause of death among women aged between 35 and 55.
We must reduce the breast cancer mortality rate in the European Union.
