Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (ES) Mr President, I voted in favour of the reports on The Bahamas, Barbados, Saint Kitts and Nevis and Seychelles.
in writing. - I have voted for this report.
in writing. - IRENA was officially established on 26 January 2009.
I am in favour of the adoption of the Statute that has been presented and, hence, voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - Due to the vast quantity of European legislation, it becomes essential that any defunct material is efficiently repealed.
In view of all the above, I support the Commission's proposal to repeal obsolete acts in the field of the common agricultural policy.
At the time of our accession to the EU, the acquis communautaire numbered almost 80 000 pages of text, half of which related to agriculture.
The Commission lately declared 250 agricultural laws obsolete.
I voted in favour of the report which authorises Portugal to apply reduced rates of excise duty in the Azores and Madeira on locally produced and consumed liqueurs, eaux-de-vie and rum, because I see this as an important way of supporting the subsistence of the small industries in the sector involved in producing such goods, which are in a very unfavourable competitive position, faced with the liberalisation of markets and the growing sales of spirits in these regions.
The reduction of this tax will also contribute to a greater economic and social balance in these regions, thus ensuring the sustainability and even the creation of jobs, which are crucial for safeguarding the local economies.
in writing. - The Government of Malta should follow similar initiatives for the island of Gozo.
Countries much larger than Malta, such as Portugal, Italy and Greece, have been able to obtain special measures so as to provide attractive incentives to island regions.
in writing. - This is an extension of the 2002 tax derogation given to Portugal in respect of certain autonomous regions.
I am in favour of such extension and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
I voted in favour of the Hübner report on the proposal for a Council decision authorising Portugal to apply reduced rates of excise duty in the autonomous region of Madeira on locally produced and consumed rum and liqueurs and in the autonomous region of the Azores on locally produced and consumed liqueurs and eaux-de-vie.
The proposal approved in today's plenary sitting by an overwhelming majority allows for an extension to the concession granted in 2002 authorising Portugal to apply reduced rates of excise duty in Madeira on locally produced and consumed rum and liqueurs and in the Azores on locally produced and consumed liqueurs and eaux-de-vie.
Having secured the unanimous support of the Committee on Regional Development, this result was confirmed by today's vote, which maintains the tax reduction with effect from January 2009 until 2013.
I am in favour of such codification and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - This consists of a simple codification of already existing texts and I have therefore voted in favour.
The report on the proposal for the Audiovisual Media Services Directive in its codified form, tabled before the plenary session, is purely a technical and legal measure whose benefits are, however, unquestionable.
In this case, the codification proposal involves replacing the old 1989 directive with a new directive (without modifying the content) to which the acts that have supplemented it over the years have been added.
in writing. - This concerns the codification of legislation concerning veterinary checks on animals entering the EU, and I have therefore voted in favour.
In practice, of course, this situation is shamelessly exploited.
The current Commission proposal for a codified version of the Council Directive laying down the principles governing the organisation of veterinary checks on animals entering the Community from third countries is a step in this direction and therefore has my backing.
in writing. - This is a codification without any substantial changes and therefore I have voted in favour.
in writing. - This report consists of a simple codification of legislation on animal health conditions in the sphere of intra-Community trade.
For these reasons, trade involving these goods should also be clearly and uniformly regulated, amongst other things, in order to protect the health of the citizens.
in writing. - This is a codification without any substantial change and therefore I have voted in favour.
in writing. - This provides for visa-free travel between Mauritius and Member States of the EU.
I am in favour of such an agreement and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
The exceptions are the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial restriction with respect to France and the Netherlands, for which this agreement only relates to those countries' European territories.
in writing. - This provides for visa-free travel between the Seychelles and Member States of the EU.
The exceptions are the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial restriction with respect to France and the Netherlands, for which this agreement only relates to those countries' European territories.
I also support the provisional implementation of the agreement pending its entry into force.
in writing. - This provides for visa-free travel between Barbados and Member States of the EU.
The exceptions are the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial restriction with respect to France and the Netherlands, for which this agreement only relates to those countries' European territories.
I also support the provisional implementation of the agreement pending its entry into force.
The exceptions are the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial restriction with respect to France and the Netherlands, for which this agreement only relates to those countries' European territories.
The exceptions are the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial restriction with respect to France and the Netherlands, for which this agreement only relates to those countries' European territories.
I also support the provisional implementation of the agreement pending its entry into force.
I am in favour of such an agreement and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
The exceptions are the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, which are not bound by this agreement, and a territorial restriction with respect to France and the Netherlands, for which this agreement only relates to those countries' European territories.
I also support the provisional implementation of the agreement pending its entry into force.
in writing. - UKIP MEPs abstained because we do not believe that the European Union should be responsible for sending taxpayers' money to the victims of the Italian earthquake.
As I pointed out earlier with regard to Reimer Böge's report about the earthquake in the Abruzzi, I believe that solidarity between Member States of the European Union and European support for States that are the victims of disasters provide a clear signal that the European Union, in adopting instruments of special aid like the European Union Solidarity Fund, shows itself capable of remaining united in adversity, and this is something of which we can indeed feel proud.
Since the mobilisation of EUR 493 771 159 from the European Union Solidarity Fund has been approved in favour of Italy, and since this fund does not have its own budget, it is necessary to amend the Community budget to ensure that the amount agreed is made available.
I agree that the mobilisation of this fund is necessary in this case and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
I believe that the case of the workers from Nokia GmbH, in the German region of Bochum, justifies European aid, as was previously given in Portugal.
There needs to be a break with the neoliberal policies that are causing a real economic and social disaster in many countries of the European Union, particularly Portugal.
As a result of the Finnish telecommunications company Nokia closing its production plant in Bochum in 2008 and relocating to more cost effective market areas, 2 300 more people in the region were made redundant.
The closure of the Nokia plant in Bochum was indeed the latest in a string of events compounding unemployment in the region.
If, however, we believe that it should be possible for him to be tried in a court of law like everyone else, this is because we must have confidence that Poland respects the basic principles of democracy and the rule of law that are a precondition of being a Member State of the European Union.
