Adaptation of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure to the Lisbon Treaty (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Martin, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on adaptation of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure to the Lisbon Treaty.
When I first stood for the European Parliament in 1984, I remarked to one of my then colleagues, Ken Collins, a Scottish Member, that I was wondering whether I was doing the wrong thing, because Parliament did not seem to have much teeth when it came to legislative matters.
Most of these issues have been dealt with, as I have said, without controversy.
That is to the credit of the people who worked in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs before the summer, and I again repeat my thanks to Richard Corbett for all the efforts that he made in this regard. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to the delight of a great number of us, the Treaty of Lisbon will soon be coming into force.
The second thing that I would like to say is that this is truly a very important act that is taking place, because I think it is of great political significance to have the new Rules of Procedure in force on 1 December, alongside the new treaty.
In our case, it has only taken a few weeks - as Parliament had spent a long time making in-depth preparations for this event - for the new Rules of Procedure to be approved on this basis, so that once the treaty takes effect, we can immediately start working according to the new Rules of Procedure.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I wish to express my concern that we have been prevented from debating the Brok amendment on implementation of the Members' Statute.
I believe that our constituents have a right to know not only what we pay ourselves, but also the details of the allowances and benefits that we receive.
I stand before you as one who has a democratic mandate - a mandate similar to that held by everyone else that has been elected to this Parliament.
But I would urge you, Mr President, to bring these issues to a conclusion very quickly, because it is important that the democratic mandate of this Parliament is respected.
I have a feeling that the Empire is striking back. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting the Martin report, the European Parliament has accomplished what was an unavoidable task, given the imminent entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The fact remains that, while there are elements that can be eliminated from the work carried out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there are other elements that can usefully be added.
The level of harmonisation that we have reached can be described as satisfactory; Europe counts for a lot in the lives of our citizens.
For this reason, safeguarding the principle of subsidiarity, as expressed in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, is more crucial than ever.
Mr Casini has been very wise, as he often is on these matters, in that there are amendments which have absolutely nothing to do with Lisbon, and it is very clear they have nothing to do with Lisbon.
I would ask you therefore in your wisdom to rule that these amendments are admissible, but that those concerning the function of the Bureau - the number of vice-chairs for committees and so on - are clearly not matters relating to Lisbon and should not be voted on this week.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 25 November 2009.
