Part I Subject: Exchange of information relating to bank accounts The recent tax scandal in Liechtenstein had repercussions in many Member States of the EU.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to combat tax evasion.
Individual measures in this sector, however, frequently do not have the desired effect nationally.
In addition, the European Union has concluded agreements with third countries, including Liechtenstein, which pursue the same aim as this Directive.
The Economic and Financial Affairs Council carried out an exchange of views on the application of the Directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments on 4 March 2008.
As a result of the debate, the Ministers asked the Commission to push ahead with work on a report on the implementation of the Directive since it entered into force on 1 July 2005.
The Member States must at all events reasonably ensure that their competent bodies comply with the appropriate EU regulations and national data protection regulations when supplying and processing personal data.
I have pointed out that the general rules also apply in tax matters to the protection of personal data, that the Member States are entitled to restrict these rules if this serves to protect their financial interests.
We should like to maintain the same cooperation and the same exchange of information in relation to Liechtenstein as already exists between the EU Member States.
They have already been adopted and are coming into force.
The problem of particulate emissions from two-wheelers essentially arises from two-stroke engines.
The limits for hydrocarbon emissions from motorbikes and mopeds - two-wheelers, therefore - were already tightened up here substantially in 2004 and in 2007, and the situation has already improved considerably for new cars.
For this reason, the Commission has not put forward any specific measures for limiting particulate emissions from two-wheelers.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) I understand the honourable Member's question very well.
According to the UN Children's Fund, UNICEF, more than 27 000 children die each day, mainly from preventable diseases.
UNICEF's latest figures show that, worldwide, 93 million children of primary school age do not go to school, including 41 million children in sub-Saharan Africa, 31.5 million in South Asia and 6.9 million in the Middle East and North Africa.
Children's rights are among the main priorities of the Commission's Strategic Objectives for 2005-2009.
The aim of the recently adopted communication is to create a framework for a common EU approach to protecting and promoting the rights of the child in third countries, which would be reflected in all areas of our external relations including development assistance, humanitarian aid and trade policy.
In so doing the Union gives priority in its external policy to the issue of human rights of probably the most vulnerable group in society. (NL) Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner and also the Commission for the efforts that they are indeed making in order to protect the rights of the child as far as possible.
If you talk to people in the field, however, it seems that not enough people or resources are being deployed in order to protect children's rights in armed conflicts.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) The first question was addressed to Commissioner Frattini, who has decided to go back to national politics.
I would like to point out that the rules on international adoption are not uniform in all respects across the European Union, and that each country adopts its own national rules within the framework of international child protection conventions; these national rules could be changed and improved in various ways.
The Member States submitted the first set of national strategic reports in 2002, and the second set in 2005.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) As I mentioned at the start, under the Treaty establishing the European Community the overall structure of pension systems is the responsibility of the individual Member States and falls under their remit.
The most common age is 65 years but there are countries where the retirement age is higher, just as there are countries where it is lower.
This is because approximately one in six young people in the European Union drops out of school early and one in four does not complete secondary education.
This has prompted the Commission to support cooperation between the Member States, and in particular to encourage greater mobility of young people in the European Union.
The Member States have EUR 75 billion at their disposal for the period 2007-2013.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr Ryan, the exchange of information and good practice is one of the enormous assets of the European Union.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Allow me to return briefly to what I said at the start.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the European Union has established a broad framework for the fight against discrimination and can be proud of the results that have been achieved.
Specifically this means that people are protected against discrimination on grounds of age, disability, sexual orientation or religion but it is only in the workplace that they are protected in this complex manner.
If the work as he describes it continues and he can strike the right balance, I think that will be welcome in all countries in the European Union.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was completed during the Luxembourg Presidency, thanks, too, to the coordinated endeavours of the European Union.
The principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination is a fundamental European value that must be implemented, and when implementing it we have to make use of all the instruments available to the European Union.
The European Commission applies this method rigorously in all areas, including the area of equal opportunities, fundamental rights and non-discrimination. (IT) Thank you, Mr President, I will not add any other questions.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, honourable Members, I should like to thank the honourable Member, Mr Medina Ortega, for his question, which gives me the opportunity to express the Commission's position concerning the important issue of the fisheries agreement with Morocco.
The figures concerning the first year of implementation of this agreement are not yet final since the first year only ended on 28 February 2008 and there is a six-month delay between the time that fishing operations take place and when the data are transmitted and analysed.
Member of the Commission. - With regard to the specific case to which Ms Miguélez Ramos made reference, I would like to say that today the Commission issued a statement to the effect that we are concerned to learn of the hijacking of a Spanish fishing vessel in international waters off the coast of Somalia.
As you rightly pointed out in your question, Member States - in this case the United Kingdom - are responsible for distributing fishing opportunities amongst their vessels.
For this part of the fleet, the European Fisheries Fund provides a very favourable financial framework, which allows Member States to adopt measures to protect it.
In other areas, where cod stocks are in much worse shape, more stringent measures are obviously needed in order to give stocks a chance to recover.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Honourable Member, Mr Ó Neachtain, for his question, which gives me the opportunity to address the issue of the decommissioning of fishing vessels.
By letter dated 6 August 2007, the Irish authorities notified the Commission of the state aid scheme entitled 'Adjustment of fishing effort'.
The Irish scheme foresees that aid can be granted until 1 October 2009.
However, according to the Irish authorities, the closing date for applications under the scheme is 30 April 2008, after which date the level of uptake of the scheme will be clearer.
The remaining operators should benefit from more attractive returns. (GA) Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his answer and I agree that there is, and was, a need to decommission boats due to insufficient levels of fish.
Member of the Commission. - With regard to the crew members of vessels to be decommissioned, I would like to say first of all that the European Fisheries Fund allows assistance for the permanent cessation associated with decommissioning.
As the author is not present, Question No 67 lapses.
Member of the Commission. - I would like to thank Mr Gklavakis for his comments.
Question No 69 will be answered in writing.
Member of the Commission. - I thank the honourable Member for the question.
The Commission then assessed the plans submitted by the Member States, approved them and ensured a first financial contribution of up to EUR 64 million out of a total of EUR 130 million for the whole exercise.
The EU contribution was EUR 1.7 million and EUR 804 000 respectively.
Member of the Commission. - We believe that the disease will spread throughout the whole of Europe in 2008.
Currently, these territories are located in six Brazilian states: Espírito Santo, Goiás, Mato Grosso, Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for her response and welcome her to her first Question Time in the European Parliament.
Member of the Commission. - Honourable Members, the Commission has every intention to respond to the decision of the Parliament and the Council when removing health services from the Services Directive in 2006 to have them treated separately.
This proposal simply creates a framework for the patients to exercise these rights effectively with greater legal certainty, more transparency and improved predictability.
Thank you for your reply.
It also makes clear under what conditions citizens can have cross-border health care reimbursed by their national health system or health care provider and when they cannot.
