rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before opening the debate about the report on which we will be voting tomorrow, I should like to take this opportunity to say some words of thanks.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I very much welcome Parliament's report in response to the Commission White Paper on nutrition, overweight and obesity-related health issues.
We are working together in line with the conclusions of the WHO Ministerial Conference in Istanbul, with a focus on monitoring actions in Member States to implement both the Commission's White Paper and the WHO strategy.
In July, the high-level group met with the European Platform on Diet, Physical Activity and Health in order to discuss potential for synergies and partnerships, focusing in particular on salt reduction - the agreed initial priority for joint action with Member States.
Let me also draw your attention to the Commission's proposal last July to reserve EUR 90 million every year for the purchase and distribution of free fruit and vegetables to schools.
Educational campaigns and promotion of physical activity seem to constitute the best approach.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - (PL) Mr President, I could almost have drafted this document myself.
Adults are responsible for drumming sensible eating habits into children.
Programmes promoting the principles of healthy eating and physical activity should also be directed at children and young people.
The European Commission proposed allocating a mere EUR 90 million to this programme.
We should always remember that our children's diet will determine their health in later life.
There were 400 amendments, and I would like to thank the rapporteur because he has tried to make some sense of it.
When I first raised this two years ago there was no support in the Parliament - in fact the Commission was taking Denmark to court and there was nothing happening.
It has to be recognised - and people have said as much here today - that it is not easy to convince people that Europe should have more than a say in this fight against obesity.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, which I represent here today, is therefore opposed to Amendment 6 by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and prefers to stand by the proposal for a substantial cut in VAT on fruit and vegetables, as laid down in paragraph 28.
The problem is partly due to inappropriate nutrition and partly to a sedentary lifestyle that does not involve any physical effort.
The White Paper on nutrition is a useful document in terms of action to control obesity, especially amongst children.
The selection of healthy products should be facilitated by a promotion and information policy focused on children but above all on their parents.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Mr President, today we are discussing overweight and obesity and I think it is important - as several people have already said - not to talk too much about diet and waste, but to talk mainly about the need to eat healthily.
Therefore, she wants not a fat tax or higher taxes on unhealthy products and imports, but, in particular, lower taxes on healthy products.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) A third of Europeans suffer from overweight and obesity.
The EU should phase out subsidies to the meat industry; yet, in the budget for 2007 alone, over 45 million euros were appropriated just for the marketing costs of the meat industry.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, trans-fatty acids are not the healthiest fatty acids.
I have therefore tabled amendments to limit the quantity of saturated fatty acids as well and at the same time I suggest that we do not call for a ban on trans-fatty acids, as indicated now in paragraph 32 of the report.
What might be a possibility is for us to set a limit of, for example, a 2% proportion of trans-fatty acids in total energy intake.
We have to ensure that we do not have a trade-off between trans-fatty acids and saturated fatty acids, with consumer health not being improved at all as a result. (SK) The deteriorating trend towards unhealthy eating and insufficient physical exercise in Europe is alarming.
We know that obesity is one of the factors responsible for 'civilisation diseases', such as high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes and consequent diseases of the musculoskeletal system.
On 17 September I organised a working lunch here in the European Parliament devoted to the problem of the relationship between obesity and diabetes in pregnancy.
The Members and assistants present were able to listen to the top experts in Europe, such as Dr Rosa Corcoy Pla, chair of the working group for diabetes in pregnancy, and Professor F.
I should therefore like to draw your attention to the written declaration I and my colleagues have prepared on this problem, the relationship between diabetes and obesity in pregnancy.
The EU Member States should devote more attention to preventing and screening for diabetes in pregnancy and make the population more aware of the risk and consequences of obesity. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the White Paper, the Commission intends to present an integrated strategy for the EU which aims to reduce diseases related to poor nutrition and the overweight and obesity-related health issues with which it is associated.
The Commission's school fruit programme is another example.
We should not be restricting our citizens' freedom of choice with punitive measures or restricting their access to food. (PT) Mr President, this debate is very important.
I therefore agree with most of the measures proposed: consumer information, restriction on television advertising, nutritional and health information on food labelling.
Many parents do not even realise the harm they are doing to their children by allowing them to spend their free time in front of the television or computer, eating what they should not be eating, without any kind of monitoring or control.
Schools should be responsible for the qualitative and nutritional control of school meals, prohibiting the sale of high-fat, high-salt or high-sugar products in bars and vending machines.
Unfortunately, in Europe's food policy, whether we are talking about nutrient profiles or food labelling, or indeed in some aspects of the White Paper, we tend to resort to a very one-sided approach.
Indeed, 2009 should see a revival of the Mediterranean diet and the production of fruit and vegetables, especially in view of the latest WHO data indicating that the consumption of these foods is falling even in Mediterranean countries.
Critically this is a huge challenge for policymakers, especially when it comes to our children, 22 million of whom are overweight in Europe.
The Harvard Medical School recently conducted a study which found that people who ate breakfast every day were 35% less likely to be obese.
So while citizens are ultimately personally responsible for their own diets, the ongoing promotion of healthier lifestyles is a must.
There is much the EU can do to reduce the problem of obesity and on which we should focus attention here in Parliament.
Advertising and consumer information are areas on which we take decisions here in Parliament and which should be our focus.
A great deal of the advertising directed at children does in fact relate to food which contains a lot of fat, salt or sugar.
A ban on advertising directed at children would be an effective way of reducing the obesity problem in Europe.
The usual argument against such a ban is that it is actually saturated fats that are the biggest problem for public health in Europe.
What is worrying is that the prospects after 2010 are even gloomier.
Moreover, Member States should supervise the content of vending machines placed in schools, they should monitor the food provided by schools and kindergartens, and they should encourage the consumption of fruit and vegetables.
The situation in Europe is even more dramatic.
We must remember that healthy natural food is the best way to combat diseases, including obesity and overweight. (DE) Mr President, overweight and obesity are a major problem for our society.
However, it is on the increase because more people in society can afford to eat meat, not because per capita meat consumption itself is rising.
The proposal included in the report to reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables to below five per cent is welcome.
In that context it would be commendable to start providing fruit in schools, and European Union support would be necessary if we are to introduce the measure in all 27 Member States.
One cannot say much in one minute but I would like to add a couple of words on advertising and the media.
Their help and ideas are needed to advertise carrots, not Pepsi-Cola, and on the kinds of stereotypes and body images to advertise, as these play a very important role in raising people's awareness.
In a sense, both these debates concern the same issue, namely the health of our society and of young people in particular.
Much has been talked about information campaigns and prevention.
Studies have shown, for example, that a waist measurement greater than 88 cm for women, apart from during pregnancy, and above 102 cm for men is the definition of abdominal obesity and constitutes a health risk, and this applies irrespective of the person's height.
According to the Irish Heart Alliance, this voluntary code is not effective.
That is fine at one level, but we need clear, understandable food labelling - colour coding is a positive step.
It should of course be borne in mind that the specific actions and policies to combat this phenomenon fall within the competence of the Member States. (LT) The White Paper suggests considering three factors when determining a strategy for Europe on nutrition-, overweight- and obesity-related health issues.
According to the statistics, almost 27% of men and 38% of women are considered overweight and more than 5 million children are obese.
I should like to draw attention to the problem of overweight children and young people: this age group should be one of the priorities.
Education in healthy eating is mainly the responsibility of parents, but schools can also play a part in this regard.
I also favour a ban on the sale of excessively fatty, salty and sugary products in schools, where they are available in particular in vending machines.
Exercise, on the other hand, increases the deposition of calcium in the bones, develops children's social skills and is an important factor in the fight against stress.
It is important to create school conditions whereby sufficient time can be set aside every day for physical education and to encourage children to take part in sport, for example through the construction of playing fields and sports halls.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, obesity and being overweight are not only fed by health reasons, but by social reasons in the broadest sense.
I consider it important to emphasise that the White Paper and the Parliament's opinion must not address the health sector but citizens and communities; society, in other words.
Making a healthy lifestyle more popular must be supported in every possible way, at European Union, Member State, regional and local level.
We must place particularly great emphasis on the programmes and actions that aim to bring school-age children and young people up with a healthy lifestyle.
In preventing obesity, the importance of exercise and sport must be closely linked to the requirements of healthy eating, but it is not at all sufficient to focus on only these two aspects: encouraging people to lead a healthy lifestyle must become top priority in all relevant policy areas.
The other disorder is obesity, which can also have a psychological basis.
In my view, our efforts represent a step in the right direction and I therefore support this report. (RO) I believe we should focus our attention on overweight children and that we should try to create new programs for fighting obesity in early life, when we acquire our feeding habits.
All the Member States should include in their school curricula the basics of a balanced diet and exercise.
I endorse the proposals in the White Paper, such as the appropriate labelling of foods, restrictions on advertising in the case of products that are harmful to children, decreased VAT on fruit and vegetables, and foods for children only.
They not only shared its views, but also expressed support for the Commission's initiatives.
I want to stress that there are various programmes and projects in the European Union which mutually reinforce the White Paper on nutrition, overweight and obesity - such as the Green Paper on urban mobility or the White Paper on sport, both aimed at a healthier lifestyle and a healthier environment.
These are very important initiatives in full harmony with the Commission's position.
The Commission will continue to work with the EU Platform for Action on Diet, Physical Activity and Health and with the high-level group of Member State experts.
I also want to stress that the Commission is encouraging initiatives that help prevent the development of cardiovascular disease in Europe, for which trans-fatty-acid consumption is a risk factor in addition to overall fat intake and the intake of saturated-fat acids.
Commitments have been made within the European Platform for Action on Diet, Physical Activity and Health to reformulate products and reduce the amount of trans-fats and saturated fats in them.
Parliament is expected to discuss the monitoring report in 2010.
rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to emphasise one aspect of the Commissioner's statement which I consider very important.
Help must be provided and we must produce a report which helps us to achieve our objectives.
It is therefore entirely appropriate for the European Parliament to have become involved in combating overweight and obesity.
It is also right that Parliament should be encouraging the bodies responsible for the health of EU citizens to become involved in this battle.
in writing. - The problem of obesity and diet-related diseases has taken dramatic proportions worldwide.
A similar approach can be applied to foods that have been established as harmful to human health.
We would do well to remember that sound nutrition is one of the 12 factors contributing to good health highlighted by the World Health Organisation.
The incidence of obesity amongst our youngest citizens has reached epidemic proportions.
The fact that over 5 million children are obese and 22 million children are overweight is cause for particular concern.
It is also important to bear in mind that television advertising affects the so-called short-term consumption habits of children between 2 and 11 years of age.
in writing. - (RO) Obesity and weight gain due to inappropriate eating habits and to the lack of exercise are increasing everywhere in the EU, with major economic and social consequences.
in writing. - (DE) In view of the alarming health trend among Europe's children - more than five million children are obese and 22 million are overweight - the development of a Strategy for Europe on Nutrition is a very welcome step.
Europe's schools must also face up to their responsibility for sports in schools and daily exercise to a greater extent, given that children and young people spend much of their day at school.
