&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 7 July 2005. &#160;&#160; Please allow me next to make a statement relating to the events we have witnessed this summer.
As you will remember, on 7 July, at our last sitting before the holidays, we were taken by surprise by the terrorist attacks on London, which, as we feared at the time, caused many victims.
This summer, however, has also been marked by other tragic events: the persistence of terrorism in Iraq, horrendous natural disasters and accidents that have brought pain to many families throughout the world — particularly here in Europe and now, especially, in the United States.
In Iraq, terrorism kills many people everyday, in a constant drip.
Dramatic civilian aeroplane and helicopter accidents have led to the deaths of more than 400 people in Indonesia, Greece, Venezuela, Peru and in the Baltic, and also in Afghanistan, where European soldiers have died — Spanish, on this occasion, but they could have been from any European country — following a helicopter accident.
There has been more: disastrous floods in Austria, Germany, Bulgaria, Romania and Switzerland have killed dozens of people and displaced hundreds of thousands of inhabitants.
The results of this environmental damage caused by too much water, in some cases, and a lack of it, in others, will be very difficult to reverse and should remind us that the violent nature of these phenomena is the result of imbalances to which the European Union has paid particular attention and will have to continue to do so.
Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the majority of these dramas, the European Union has demonstrated its capacity to mobilise and to go to the assistance of the victims quickly.
Having commented briefly on these dramatic events of this summer which is coming to an end, I would like to call on you, now that we are back here again, to observe a minute’s silence to demonstrate our solidarity with all of the victims and express our deepest sympathies to them. &#160;&#160; The final version of the draft agenda for the present part-session as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday 1 September, pursuant to Rules 130 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
We therefore feel that the urgent debate on relations with Syria should be replaced by one on the situation in Belarus. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I must point out to the members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that there is a great difference between a vote on an association agreement and one on a resolution regarding two specific cases of human rights violations in Syria: these concern two members of parliament, one of whom has been on hunger strike for a long time.
As regards the situation in Belarus, we are all of the same mind, and we all express our concern.
I would recall, however, that on 5&#160;July this Parliament debated the Commission’s statement and on 10&#160;July we adopted a resolution on more or less the same topics.
The situation there is very threatening, and so I ask Members now to agree to this debate being held during the second September part-session.
This request is one that I make from the bottom of my heart and I make it to you all. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Poettering.
I am sure that the Presidents of the political groups will take good note of your request and that they will take it into account when establishing the agenda of the next part-session. &#160;&#160; The next item on the agenda is the requests for one-minute speeches, which we will continue to conduct in accordance with the instructions that I communicated to you by letter and which are gradually enabling us to carry out this item in a more organised fashion. &#160;&#160; Following the news of the attempted bomb attack on the president of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, József Kasza, I went to visit the scene last week.
In documented cases of minority and human rights violations such as this, the European Parliament has a duty to consider the facts and not the self-justifying statements made by the relevant Serb politicians, who are implicated in these incidents.
And this approach is particularly warranted in the case of a country with which the EU is preparing to open Association negotiations in the autumn.
Making use of its budgetary power, the European Parliament also has a duty to use the Community support it provides to Serbia-Montenegro as an instrument to protect that minority.
It is also the duty of the European Parliament, by conducting monitoring activities of its own on a more regular basis, to speak up concerning the kind of country the Union is entering into closer relations with.
Last, the European Parliament also has a duty not to forget that, alongside József Kasza, there are some 300 000 people belonging to the Hungarian and other minorities in Vojvodina that need to be protected. &#160;&#160; On behalf of the nine languages of the ten new Member States, I would like to voice an objection, because once again discrimination is taking place against the new Member States.
This means that a Dutch person is able to take the test in Dutch, while Hungarian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Slovenian, Estonia, Latvian, Lithuanian and Maltese applicants cannot take the test in their mother tongue, but must take it in one of the 11 languages of the 15 ‘old’ Member States.
This is blatant discrimination and runs contrary to the spirit of the European Union.
Mr President, I ask you – and I have submitted my request to you in writing too – to take action against this discrimination without delay. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the plane crash on 14 August involving a low-cost Cypriot airline claimed the lives of 121 people.
In a small country like Cyprus, the human loss has been devastating and I would like to thank you, Mr President, and all my colleagues for the condolences offered to the families of the victims.
I hope that when the Commission makes a statement in this House later on tonight, it will be persuasively clear of its intention to tighten up urgently its watchdog role over the civil aviation authorities and to make sure that transparency is strictly applied. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you for commemorating the recent natural and other disasters.
Several tens of thousands of people have been affected by the rivers bursting their banks and the huge volume of rainfall in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary.
The situation is without doubt worst in Romania: following the spring floods, it has suffered catastrophic damage in July and August.
The financial cost of the damage caused as a result of the natural disasters affecting Romania amounts to EUR 1.5 billion.
On behalf of the Hungarian delegation, it is our moral duty to use every means at our disposal to support the region’s inhabitants.
I request your kind support in this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I implore you, on behalf of Edinburgh in Scotland, to reconsider, with the Bureau, its flawed decision to hold the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg, rather than in my home city, Edinburgh.
The UK currently holds the Presidency of the European Union and Scotland wants this meeting to be in Edinburgh.
The current situation has demonstrated who in the EU is really benefiting from the liberalisation of the textile sector; the major importers and distributors have increased their profit margins to ever more outlandish levels.
This is a direct insult on all of us here; on all of us who recognise Cyprus and consider the Members of the European Parliament from Cyprus to be our peers.
This matter needs to be examined in depth and we need to make this country understand that it cannot be the troublemaker of Europe before it has even joined Europe.
There can be no discrimination between small and large countries.
All countries are equal here and Turkey cannot therefore cock a snook at democracy in this insulting manner.
The arrogance with which Ankara haughtily refused to make the slightest effort in the area of human rights – examples I would cite include the recognition of the Armenian genocide, and the recent scandalous charges brought against Mr Orhan Pamuk, the Turkish author, with regard to linguistic rights for the Kurdish minority –shows how Turkey and its culture remain incompatible with our European values.
Mr de Villepin and Mrs Merkel, like many others, are quite right when they say that in that case, Turkey does not belong, and so I hope that that is the message that this House will be sending out. &#160;&#160; Mr President, reflecting on my speech concerning the situation of the ethnic Hungarians living in Latvia, Mr Zīle of Latvia accused me of ‘telling lies to this Parliament’.
On the other hand, those from other ethnic origins – Latvians and some other Baltic nations – have free, or almost free, access to citizenship.
Generally speaking, any kind of ethnic discrimination is against the basic democratic ideals of this Union, but in the case of Hungarians, even the historical arguments are missing for such discrimination. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to give my unreserved support to those who argue that we have to help Romania to overcome a grave natural calamity at a difficult time, one in which it also has to prepare itself for membership of the European Union.
Romania needs political consensus if it is to make a good job of preparing itself for the European Union and for life as one of its Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the case of Francisco Larrañaga, a Spanish and European Union citizen sentenced to death in the Philippines.
I would therefore call upon the President of this Parliament to appeal urgently to the government of the Philippines and to the President of that country and call on them to ensure that she exercise her right to pardon Francisco Larrañaga so that this European and Spanish citizen is not executed. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Iturgaiz, for drawing the Presidency’s attention to this citizen’s situation.
We shall look into the case and, if appropriate, we shall act in accordance with your suggestion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week marked the first anniversary of the Beslan massacre, which resulted in the deaths of 331 people, of which 186 were children.
Astonishingly, the self-confessed perpetrator of this crime, Shamil Basayev, was appointed deputy prime minister of the so-called Chechen government-in-exile on 25 August.
The so-called foreign minister, a Mr Osman Ferzaouli, who resides in Denmark as a political refugee, says this will result in Basayev being more responsible in future.
That industry has been in serious decline for the last 30 years.
Mr President, I ask you to join me in urging the Commission to complete its investigation as a matter of urgency so that we can know that this tender process will be on the basis of equals tendering for the contract and not with one company facing competition with one hand tied behind its back. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the House to a major industrial dispute in my constituency of London which affected many thousands of air passengers around Europe – that of the Gate Gourmet workers, 670 of whom were arbitrarily dismissed from their jobs on 13 August without any redundancy payment.
This led to a major strike by British Airways staff and caused major disruption for many passengers.
Having visited the workers during the summer recess, I would like to draw the attention of the House to the poor industrial relations records of some of these companies and the need for an amicable settlement.
The company is moving in the right direction, but we should send the signal that throughout the European Union we want fair and balanced industrial relations, and observance of the law, so that consumer disruption of this kind can be avoided and workers can get on with their lives, and so that people with over 30 years’ service in such companies receive the justice they deserve. &#160;&#160; Mr President, On 28 July, the IRA made an historic decision to end its armed struggle.
Sinn Féin believes that there now exists the opportunity to achieve Irish Republican objectives through purely peaceful and democratic methods.
Meanwhile, the summer months have been characterised by attacks against vulnerable Catholic and nationalist homes.
The job for all those connected with the Irish peace process is immense. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the recent tragic aeroplane crashes in Europe and the rest of the world, for the victims of which you too have just expressed your condolences, make it more than imperative that we redefine the dividing line between the need to liberalise and prevent distortion of competition in the civil aviation sector in Europe and the even more pressing and legitimate demand for maximum possible safety standards to be maintained.
The European Union is obliged at the very least to initiate legislation to strengthen the legal framework for harmonising technical and administrative procedures in the civil aviation sector.
This must be the message following the tragic aeroplane crashes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since we last met, a Member State of this Union, the Republic of Ireland, has been shamefully harbouring three convicted international terrorists.
IRA terrorists Monaghan, Connolly and McCauley were duly convicted of training FARC guerrillas in Colombia.
I condemn that duplicity, I condemn that hypocrisy but most of all I call on the Dublin Government to end the shame and to return these fugitives forthwith. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make use of the opportunity presented today to bring to the House’s attention a remarkable initiative by some of Europe’s young people.
Over 50 of them, from six European countries, took part in a workshop at a college of higher education in my electoral district in which they acted out their own ‘European Parliament’, the object being to make the EU more attractive to the public.
The young people’s ‘European Parliament’ calls on the Commission to provide the citizens of Europe with comprehensive information about the Member States, European policymaking, and cultural events in all their diversity.
They articulate the view that EU information material must come across to the public in their day-to-day lives and the environments in which they live, and they believe it necessary that the EU should cooperate across the board with institutions involved in school education at national level in fostering cultural, historical and political awareness. &#160;&#160; Mr President, along the same lines as Mr Allister, I would like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that, during the summer, we witnessed the return to Dublin – to the Republic of Ireland – of the so-called Colombia Three.
You cannot, on the one hand, pay lip-service to the fight against terrorism if, on the other hand, you overlook what is actually happening within a Member State of the European Union.
This has got to be acted upon, and acted upon positively, and the response should be made in a very responsible and effective manner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to remind both Mr Allister and Mr Nicholson, and indeed Mrs de Brún, that the rule of law applies in the Republic of Ireland and the law will take its course in the Republic of Ireland in relation to the case they mentioned.
People with disabilities are looking to Europe to help them achieve their full freedom and dignity as European citizens.
As I will not have the opportunity to do so later on in the debate, I would like to convey my deepest sympathy to all those in New Orleans and elsewhere in the United States who have lost relatives, friends, and indeed belongings, as a result of the catastrophe following Hurricane Katrina.
Political lessons should be learnt from this, but they must take second place to Europe offering whatever aid is needed and whatever aid is requested by the United States to assist the people concerned. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to draw the attention of this House to a very practical matter that is specifically of concern to Irish beef farmers, but that touches at the very heart of the recent Common Agricultural Policy reforms.
If you recall, Commissioner Fischler promised farmers less bureaucracy and better market prices.
However, what we and farmers throughout Europe are seeing is that the price for their product will be set by the lowest-cost producer outside the European Union.
Provided that it is not already too late, we should endeavour to prevent this from happening. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, for the second time in the past six months, I should like to protest to the House at the insulting of Catholics.
I would note that values based on Christianity are a fundamental aspect of European culture, and a cultural heritage shared by the nations of our continent. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, on behalf of all those who are opposed to the European Constitution, I should like to take this opportunity to greet the House at its first session after the summer recess.
At the same time, I should also like to call on the European Union to apply those principles it proclaimed before the new Member States joined, namely equality, honesty and a fair settling of accounts. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, three more countries ratified the European Constitution over the summer, namely Cyprus, Malta and Luxembourg, with ratification in Luxembourg taking place by means of a referendum.
At the same time, ratification presents Parliament with the challenge of strengthening its dialogue with citizens and stepping up the debate on both the ratification of the European Constitution and, of course, on the future of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am grateful to you for drawing the attention of the House to the catastrophe in Louisiana and New Orleans.
All around the world in crises of a similar type, ECHO has played a prominent advisory role – in the tsunami in Indonesia and Sri Lanka, and in other instances such as the Mozambique floods.
I have discussed this matter with Commissioner Michel and am requesting this Parliament to ask the Commission to send an ECHO team to advise the United States authorities, both state and federal, on our experience of dealing with these matters.
It is our chance to give something back to the American people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 29 July, criminal indictments against subsidiaries of UBS, Deutsche Bank, Citigroup and Morgan Stanley were announced by prosecutors in Milan who are investigating the collapse of the giant Italian dairy company Parmalat.
Within 48 hours, a former member of the Citibank board fell to his death from his New York apartment and a former President of the European Central Bank, Wim Duisenberg, was found dead in his own swimming pool.
I was among the four MEPs prevented from entering Belarus in August, after being denied entry into Cuba in May.
Neither Fidel Castro nor the Belarussian dictator, Alexander Lukashenko, pay any regard to international standards.
The two capitals of Havana and Minsk are symbols of human rights violations and the gagging of public opinion.
The reason behind my attempted trip to Belarus was Mr&#160;Lukashenko’s instigation of a new wave of persecution against those of his citizens whose opinions differ from his own.
The last remaining independent newspapers have been shut down, access to the Internet has been blocked and opposition activists have been detained, arrested and sentenced.
I call on the President to ensure that the EU institutions set in motion measures to support activists who have been persecuted by Mr&#160;Lukashenko.
Such broadcasts will be the only source of independent information for Belarussians. &#160;&#160; In the world of today we are unfortunately becoming witnesses to various natural disasters, such as floods or fires following disastrous droughts.
The head of the WHO flu programme, Klaus Stöhr, said on a&#160;German radio station that if the virus mutates, it will spread rapidly.
I too would therefore like, on behalf of the College of Commissioners, to express my condolences and our support for the victims of these disasters and accidents.
The Community civil protection mechanism was adopted in 2001 so that the European Union could respond in an efficient and coordinated manner to major emergencies.
In this way, the situation was brought under control and at midday today there were only five fires, compared with more than 50 on 22 August.
The mechanism was also used to provide help to Bulgaria and Romania, the two countries worst hit by the floods.
At the moment, the European Union is making an important contribution to and is participating in efforts by the United States to deal with the tragic trail of destruction left behind by hurricane Katrina.
Yesterday, Sunday, we received an official request for assistance from the United States and immediately activated the civil protection mechanism in order to coordinate the help provided by the Member States to the areas affected.
Teams of experts and other materials have already arrived in the United States.
The Community civil protection mechanism has now become a necessary tool for coordinating European assistance.
The response to the events of this summer, like the response to the tsunami at the end of last year, has proven that the mechanism operates satisfactorily.
I am certain that the European Parliament supports our proposals and will stand by us in our endeavour.
The financial package for 'forest focus' for the period from 2003 to 2006 totals EUR 65 million, which includes EUR 9 million for preventing fires.
The Commission has taken the relevant political initiative in application of the conclusions of the European Council held in December 2004.
The European Union Solidarity Fund can provide support to countries hit by major disasters in order to help them with their restoration efforts.
Romania and Bulgaria have already asked the Commission to mobilise the Solidarity Fund.
On behalf of the Socialist Group, I wish to express my solidarity with the victims of all of these disasters.
I should like to say that what is happening to Portuguese forests is, in terms of scale, without parallel around the world, without parallel in the Amazon region, without parallel anywhere.
We must look into the question of farming, as Mr Galeote Quecedo rightly pointed out, because this disaster is part of a drought on an enormous scale.
I would point out that a two-degree increase in air temperature, from 20 to 22°C, means a 12% increase in the water vapour content of the atmosphere and hence in the amount of energy in the atmosphere, as we have unfortunately seen confirmed in hurricane Katrina.
It is a scheme that should enhance our security in terms of water resources, geology and fire protection and also enable us to make use of energy generated on the ground.
I have two or three practical questions I would like to put to Commissioner Dimas.
The first has to do with protection against flooding.
Climatologists are predicting extreme drought in Southern Europe, as well as flooding and extreme weather phenomena in Central Europe, not to mention that climate change will make hurricanes and typhoons even more powerful and even more devastating.
If we decide on measures to protect us against climate change and organise them in an intelligent way, these self-same measures will reduce our dependence on crude oil and help to improve the quality of the air in our towns and cities.
We therefore wish to express our deepest condolences and our solidarity with the bereaved families and with the populations in the affected regions.
Payment of certain direct aid to farmers under the common agricultural policy must be brought forward so as to take account of the problem of the fires and the drought on the farming sector.
A further urgently required measure is the implementation of an effective, Community-wide protection system, in order to protect farmers, especially small and medium-sized holdings, against dangers and crises such as those arising from the current drought and fires, or floods.
It is high time that we really did look further ahead. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to say that I share the words of the President of Parliament, along with those of Mr Galeote, Mr Casaca and Mr Guerreiro, who gave an overview of the situation and with which I am in broad agreement.
I wish to tell you that the best thing that Europe can do at the present time for Portugal – the country that I know best – is to offer a swift and effective response to the populations affected, of which there are many throughout my country.
In its Resolution, the Socialist Group wishes to pay a sincere tribute to these victims and to express its solidarity with their families and friends.
In its Resolution, the Socialist Group calls for European solidarity, not just through an immediate economic commitment, asking the Commission to mobilise the Solidarity Fund, but also through other medium- and long-term measures, such as the creation of a European civil protection body or a European drought monitoring centre, or also, ladies and gentlemen, through the production of an initiative report.
We believe that this would be more effective than a temporary committee, and would seal the commitment that the European Parliament must also make, not just urging other institutions, such as the European Commission for example, to work, but also working itself as a legislator, in this case via its different committees, which could work together, as I have said, to produce an initiative report on forest fires and on the natural disasters that regularly desolate our continent in the summer.
Commissioner, you have made proposals along these lines.
We also need to carry out repairs, and in order to do so, we must make use of the Structural Funds or the Cohesion Fund.
We also need to make better use of plant species to combat fires.
The Commission must also present proposals to us for 2012.
In my constituency, in the Alps, we have had flooding, and in Provence and Corsica there have been fires.
It is for this reason that European solidarity must operate as a survival reflex. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although we have already, today, expressed our solidarity with the victims of this environmental disaster, it is at least as important that we should continue to make solidarity with the persons affected within the European Union our concern even after the television cameras have been switched off.
In working across borders too – as we have seen from the floods, when different Member States were affected by the same adverse weather conditions – in the INTERREG programmes, and in research projects, priority needs to be given to cross-border measures and prevention.
In my district, Coimbra, which is the worst affected, the flames have consumed 32 km2 in the municipality of Pampilhosa da Serra alone, and only 8 km2 of forest remained.
Other municipalities in the region, such as Miranda do Corvo, where I am the chairman of the municipal assembly, Penela, Poiares, Penacova and Soure, have been hit in devastating fashion.
In some regions of the country, the picture is disastrous; the majority of the population has been affected and economic stability has been undermined (the forest is of key importance to the local and regional economy).
The fight against disasters must be made an EU priority.
There have been 18 fatalities in Portugal, including one Pedro Figueiredo, a dedicated firefighter from Oliveira de Azeméis, who was due to run in the October local elections on the basis of his extraordinary civic and community dedication.
In April, during the debate and in Parliament’s resolution, which I was involved in tabling, the risk was already clearly forecast and clearly apparent.
The dire problem of the forest fires has created a deep sense that the Portuguese countryside has no hope, that it is unsustainable, and that it has been abandoned and neglected.
There are many reasons why it is so vulnerable, and we must address all of them.
The resolution that we have tabled represents a step in this direction and that is the way forward.
I wish to thank the President of the Commission for the way in which he responded in writing to the letter that I sent to him, in which he offered guarantees that the Commission would not fail to help my country and those worst affected.
Fires and floods have happened in the past and will always continue to happen.
However, the majority of the scientific community states with certainty that, nowadays, these extreme weather conditions have increased in intensity as a result of ecological disaster, as a result of the climate change which we have brought about.
We need to re-examine our rural policy so that mountain areas are not deserted, so that people stay in mountain villages. &#160;&#160; I have been following this debate closely and with pleasure.
It is not the subject that is pleasurable, but the attitude demonstrated by the Commissioner and my fellow Members with regard to this grave matter.
The reason I have been following this debate is not only because the region I represent – for example the village of Mád, an important area for Tokaj wine production – is one of those that suffered severe damage, and because in Romania, a neighbouring country to my homeland, the damage has reached devastating proportions.
If there were a civil protection force that could be deployed for rescue purposes at a European level, then even eurosceptic citizens of the Union would realise that the work we undertake together is worthwhile.
Let us not lose sight of the unfortunate fact that these natural disasters have become more devastating over recent years and that they are also occurring with far greater frequency.
What is important, though, is that the results we obtain be given practical expression, and this will mean the Member States and regions taking their obligations seriously if we are to be able to prevent such terrible occurrences in the future. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the disasters that have hit certain EU Member States have been a source of distress to all of us.
I saw at close quarters the fires in Portugal and Spain while they were still raging, and also the widespread devastation they wreaked.
Europe is being hit by a great many disasters, and their number is increasing.
Such disasters include fires in southern Europe and floods in central Europe.
The European Commission should also put forward comprehensive proposals to ensure that this debate is not merely held whenever there is a fire, flood or disaster.
We must therefore act together to develop cross-border disaster prevention systems, and provide each other with cross-border assistance to deal with their aftermath.
Floods result all too often in the loss of life and property throughout Central Europe, for example in Austria, Germany, Hungary and Romania.
Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the European Union is engaged in discussions on its future, there is no better way for its institutions to win over the hearts and minds of the citizens of its Member States than by placing an emphasis on prevention and on the mobilisation of genuine aid, while also reducing the impact of natural disasters of this kind.
Over seven months have now passed since this request was made, and yet the areas affected are still waiting for money.
For over 13 years, the issue of preventing these fires and repairing the damage has been the subject of an action framework at Community level, and for years now the tragic consequences of these fires have met with sorrow in this House at the first part-session after the recess; it is high time that action was taken.
The European Union needs firstly to strengthen cross-border cooperation.
More generally, and without substituting for the Member States, the European Union must accord forests the status they deserve both at political and institutional level.
They deserve better than a minor role between the environment and agriculture.
With particular reference to two areas of European policy, namely rural policy and forestry policy, I should like to invite the Commissioner to consider whether we can deploy these policy measures more effectively in those regions that are being hit by drought or other climate-related disasters in the long term.
We must see what we can do to offer those governments the opportunity of using either rural policy or forestry policy in order to combat stress diseases in those trees effectively.
That is why several Members – Mr Maat, Mr Prodi, Mr Turmes and others – have mentioned the connection between climate change and the recent phenomena and catastrophes.
Over the last few months, the tragic catalogue of natural disasters has tested the European Union's civil protection response to the limit.
Pumps and medical supplies were sent to the flood-affected areas of Romania and Bulgaria.
Today, the first consignments of European Union assistance arrived in the United States, following the destruction caused by hurricane Katrina.
Over this period, it has been demonstrated that the European Union system works, and works well.
A well-coordinated response is always more effective.
The Commission's monitoring and information centre provides a real-time service matching resources with requirements.
Nevertheless, the situation could deteriorate quickly, and the Commission is continuing to monitor the overall flood situation in Central and Eastern Europe.
Assistance in the form of highly-specialised material was immediately offered to Bulgaria by Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Malta, Sweden and Slovakia.
In Portugal, 98% of the fires were caused by humans.
In the United States, the European Union's mobilisation is only just beginning.
It is important to note that, even though the rules of our civil protection mechanism prevent it from being activated until a formal request is received, Commission experts had contacted their US counterparts last week to explore areas where the European Union could provide the most help.
I am aware that other Member States are in the process of preparing additional offers.
Some of the assistance is already on site, whereas the rest is still being considered by the United States or is in the process of being dispatched.
The civil protection mechanism response to this year's natural disasters has provided a clear example of European Union added value.
It is important that all Member States channel their assistance to the United States through that mechanism in order to avoid overlapping.
Mr Pinheiro and others raised the question of whether the mechanism could work more efficiently.
The mechanism has worked excellently up until now and help from the Member States has been coordinated immediately.
That is why, in April this year, the Commission made proposals which would effectively create a European civil protection force, more or less along the lines suggested by Mr Prodi and others.
We are standing by to provide any assistance that might be needed. &#160;&#160; – The debate on this item is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by Jonas Sjöstedt on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the management of waste from extractive industries and amending Directive 2004/35/EC [16075/1/2004 C6-0128/2005 2003/0107(COD)]. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the serious background to the proposed directive on waste from extractive industries.
Many of the amendments adopted by Parliament at first reading have been included by the Council of Ministers in the common position, and that is of course excellent.
In the Council’s common position, large groups of waste are exempted from essential parts of the directive, for example the financial guarantee.
It is important to remember that waste that is not dangerous in the chemical sense can also cause very serious environmental problems.
It should not be possible to grant long-term exemptions whereby waste can be put to one side.
Voting against these amendments would be tantamount to lowering our environmental ambitions.
A stringent and constructive directive in this area will not only be of benefit to the environment but will also favour the best, most modern and most environmentally aware mining companies that are also most serious in their approach.
In conjunction with the revised Sevezo II Directive on the control of major industrial accidents and a document on best available practices, the proposed directive will safeguard the proper management of waste from extractive industries throughout the European Union.
At first reading, the Commission accepted in full, in part or in principle 46 of the 74 amendments tabled by the European Parliament, in that they clarified and improved the text, while remaining consistent with the format and approach of the original Commission proposal.
At the same time, the Council, which is interested in the principle of proportionality, has granted the Member States the facility to exempt non-hazardous, non-inert waste from certain provisions of the directive, especially from the need for a financial guarantee.
However, the Commission has decided to support the common position, taking account of the fact: first, that no general exemption from the basic provisions of the directive is allowed and the competent authorities in the Member States will decide on a case-by-case basis and, secondly, that no exemption is allowed from the main environmental safeguarding clauses in the directive relating to the safe design, operation, closure and after-closure of waste facilities.
We have to take account of the fact that mining waste has a different potential risk, and, as the Common Position does just that, it is right that the Member States should be able to distinguish between hazardous and non-hazardous waste and reduce – or annul – the conditions placed upon non-hazardous, non-inert waste other than that very precisely defined as hazardous and included in Category A.
This directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries is a piece of legislation that does not exactly evoke much interest on the part of most of the European public – at any rate, not from those who live in my own country – but that has done nothing to save us from energetic lobbying on the part of interested parties – on the one hand, the unions, the industry and its associations and, on the other, the various environmental and consumer groups.
The Waste Framework Directive and the Landfill Directive largely exclude the extractive industries, the types of waste produced by which do not in fact fit the regulations exactly, in that many of them present no problems in terms of the environment.
Legal certainty, though, is a necessity – not only for people and their environment, but also for trading enterprises and for businesses engaged in the extraction of such raw materials as oil, coal, metals, clay, gravel or sand.
There are two things that the Social Democrats in the European Parliament always bear in mind: first, the protection of people and the environment, with a sustainable way of doing business, and secondly our enterprises’ need for a proper framework and conditions if they are to be able to do business and create jobs for the people whom we – as I said in my first point – want to protect from harm.
Our rapporteur, Mr Sjöstedt, has been perceptive and rigorous in taking both these principles into account in this proposal for a resolution, and for that, many thanks to him. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I welcome the Commission's initiative requiring the best practice of some Member States to be applied to all.
It is certainly the case that an impressive number of Parliament's amendments have already been adopted and I think congratulations are due to the rapporteur.
We must accommodate some of the concerns expressed, for example the need for a proper transitional period to ensure that problems with mines closing prematurely in order to avoid the obligations of this directive are circumvented.
This directive is justified by the amount of waste created by mineral extractions, which we know produce each year nearly a third of the waste generated in the Union, some of which is toxic, indeed very toxic.
We all recall the consequences of the Baia Mare and Baia Borsa disasters.
This directive must also ensure that the new accession countries have the means to eradicate pollution from waste produced by extractions in the past.
Furthermore, the industrialists concerned own operations throughout the world, and in order to prevent further disasters, the European Union must set an example by implementing operating rules guaranteeing the safety of workers and better protection of the environment.
If you will allow me, I would like to offer three examples: the first concerns the operation of the uranium mines in Niger by European businesses.
The second example concerns the very controversial project of the opening of a gold mine at Rosia Montana, in Romania, a project that provides for the construction of a tailings pond for waste of highly toxic extraction, with a dam – brace yourselves – measuring 30 metres high.
Mr President, although mining is less widespread in Ireland now than it once was, some mining companies have left a legacy that continues to pollute our land and water due to a lack of proper checks.
It is important, therefore, to deal not only with waste generated following such a directive but also to deal with historical waste arising from facilities that have been abandoned or which were not shut down properly.
In Ireland, as in many other places, we cannot begin to deal with the problem of deteriorating human health or clean up our environment without tackling the problem of old mines and the waste that was left behind when the mines were closed and the mining companies dissolved.
In Silvermines, County Tipperary, a 147-acre, 40-foot high plateau of fine red toxic tailing pond blights the area and in dry weather the dust blows across several counties.
It was not uncommon for farmers – and these are not large farms – to have lost 150 animals per farm in the area around the industry.
We need very strong … &#160;&#160; Mr President, ‘one size fits all’ is one of the curses of EU legislation and, if the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety gets its way, we will have under this directive another classic illustration of it in action.
Although not all extractive industries have the same environmental and safety impact, if the Committee on the Environment succeeds, then this legislation will make them all needlessly subject to the same restraint.
There is no convincing or compelling reason for these further burdens to be placed on this important sector of our economic production. &#160;&#160; I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for continuing in the second reading to fight for strict regulation that takes human and environmental assets and interests into account.
We desperately need this directive, which covers mining waste containing cyanide and heavy metals, and other waste that presents a risk to the environment, for example due to its physical volume.
It tightens licensing procedures and places greater emphasis on prevention; it makes it compulsory for operators to draw up a detailed waste management plan and makes information on mining waste more accessible; its extends the areas to which financial guarantees relating to such operations will apply, and obliges mining companies to ensure complete rehabilitation and monitoring of areas where they have ceased operations.
As far as I am concerned, however, the most important and most forward-looking aspect – in view of the impending accession of Romania and Bulgaria, and the large-scale mining projects currently in preparation or under way that present a risk to the environment and to neighbouring countries – is that the new directive must also be taken into account by newly acceding Member States from the date it enters into force.
For this very reason, I call upon my fellow Members to vote in favour of these rigorous amendments aimed at achieving environmental protecting objectives, and in doing so to take a major step towards safeguarding our environment and preventing disasters. &#160;&#160; Mr President, five years ago there was an appalling incident of cyanide pollution on the River Tisza caused by a gold mine in Baia Mare, Romania.
I do not like to speak in terms of money when we are talking about the value of nature, but the Centre for Environmental Studies estimated that the loss of revenue suffered by commercial fishing and tourism was around EUR&#160;18&#160;million in Hungary alone, not including the loss of natural heritage or environmental damage.
Mr Sjöstedt did an excellent job: as well as writing a good report, he went to Baia Mare, Romania, where he visited the site of the pollution.
My aims were to clarify the requirements of the directive by giving references to the Water Framework Directive and the Groundwater Directive, to prevent the discharge of environmentally harmful mining waste into any body of water and, last but not least, to promote waste prevention as the primary means of waste management.
I hope this legislation will give us a 100% guarantee against any kinds of mines producing cyanide or other pollutants, either in Member States or in applicant countries. &#160;&#160; The directive is aimed above all at mines that will begin to close in the future or at those abandoned mines that have been closed down without the proper and appropriate procedures.
Because of the length of time needed to close mines down, this rehabilitation will still be in progress when this directive enters into force.
In order to avoid the duplication of procedures and an increase in the costs of rehabilitation as a result of the possible requirement for new permits, it would be sensible to make special provisions regarding these cases for a transitionary period under conditions of transparency.
The draft directive transfers too broad a range of responsibilities to industrial entities.
This is especially true in areas of high mining activity, where it is not uncommon for various raw materials to have been mined for several hundred years.
They deal with the issue in an arbitrary fashion, and take no account of the situation in regions where deposits are mined most intensively.
Our aim has been to prevent accidents and the consequent damage to the environment and human health that can result from the handling and disposal of waste materials from the mineral oil-extracting industries, and we have sought to do this by laying down minimum standards to improve the management of this sort of waste.
Waste from the extractive industries amounts to some 400 million tonnes per annum, equivalent to 29% of the waste produced by the Community as a whole.
Managing it does of course involve risks; we are all familiar with the accidents in such places as Baia Mare and Aberfan, among others.
The fact is that ecologically-responsible rules for waste management not only reduce the quantity of waste, but also give businesses an incentive to invest in research into environmental issues associated with the extractive industries and thereby acquire from the world market know-how that they can analyse.
There are many examples of this: let me give you one from Austria, where one firm has managed to avoid depositing some 100&#160;000 tonnes of minerals used in construction in landfill sites.
I would also like to point out the need for provisions to be enacted to deal with non-hazardous or inert waste, and that these must be proportionate.
The use of landfill sites for non-hazardous or inert waste should also be allowed for a limited period of time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am delighted to have the opportunity to contribute to the debate this evening.
In quarries six miles apart, one in Dundalk and the other in Newry, a European directive is being implemented differently in two Member States.
We need the new directive, which will safeguard environmentally proper management of mining waste both during the day-to-day operation of waste facilities and in the event of a major accident.
I trust that we shall complete the procedure for this proposal as quickly as possible, so that we can safeguard better protection of human health and the environment, as Mr Davies also said, in a way which really will be pragmatic and will respond to the demands of the various interested parties.
Amendments 2 and 13 delete the permissible exemptions for non-hazardous, non-inert waste.
The Commission is unable to accept them for the reasons I explained in my first intervention.
The common position has already been worded to reflect the relevant amendments which emerged at first reading and safeguards the necessary proportionality.
Amendments 7, 38 and 39 are also unacceptable, because the initial text contains a practical method for calculating the amount of money required.
The Commission considers that this issue is already adequately covered by the relevant provisions of the directive supplementing the general provisions of the framework directive on water and by other Community legislation on water which already applies.
Nonetheless, I am able to support Amendments 29, 30, 32 and 33 clarifying the obligations which apply and referring directly to Community legislation on water.
On the other hand, we are unable to agree with Amendment 36 bringing ordinary voids under Community regulations in order to prevent water pollution.
Another source of concern to Parliament was the important legacy from the past in the form of closed and abandoned waste facilities causing pollution.
Even though the need for an inventory of these closed sites has now been included in the common position, I have the impression – as I said earlier – that the additional demands imposed by Amendment 40 and the related Amendment 41 can be covered more effectively at national level.
Amendments 17, 18 and 21 explain the content of waste management plans in greater detail.
To close, I am happy to announce that the Commission can accept eight amendments in full and a further six amendments in principle or in part.
The Commission can accept the following amendments in full: 14, 17, 18, 21, 29, 30, 32 and 33.
The following amendments are acceptable in part or in principle: 4, 10, 12, 23, 27 and 39.
This dialogue, which mainly consists of exchanging information and points of view, meets with everyone’s satisfaction.
The Commission believes that such dialogue comes under its normal relations with all members of civil society in the Member States.
It notes that the draft Constitution includes provisions giving a more specific outline of the links between the European Union, the Churches and the other religious or philosophical organisations.
The Commission stresses the fact that this dialogue, which concerns religions, the Churches, the communities of conviction and civil society, is conducted in such a way as to respect the principle of equal treatment of all speakers.
The principle of equal treatment does not mean that all of the speakers should systematically take part in all of the meetings.
I am particularly pleased that the European Commission sees Declaration 11 of the Treaty of Amsterdam as an incentive to dialogue with churches and non-confessional organisations and is not restricted merely to a narrow legal view of the declaration.
In the work of the Convention I have also called for an open, inclusive and public dialogue in the belief that such a dialogue is both necessary and important because it also entails a closer relationship with citizens with religious or other convictions as they reflect on a common European future.
I am thinking in particular of a dialogue with Islam, which is particularly alert to the religious dimension of those with whom it is in dialogue. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, I have to say that I am very disappointed at the Commission's statement.
This is a critical period in Europe's history.
Dialogue is therefore most important, but it must be transparent dialogue.
It also needs to be made clear that Europe's democracy is founded on the principle that this Union and the parliaments and executives in every Member State are independent of all religious dogmas.
It is a principle that has taken centuries to establish and it must not be conceded if we are to avoid a dangerous regression in Europe. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, I welcome the Commissioner’s statement.
The relationship between state and church has played a major role in the history of western constitutional law.
Secondly, when inviting bodies to participate in this dialogue, the Commission would do well to draw a distinction between religion and ideology.
Finally, the law that applies in this case is the Amsterdam Treaty, declaration No 11, which the Commissioner quoted just a moment ago.
It may have slipped your minds, but since the referenda in France and the Netherlands, the Constitutional Treaty really is old hat. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, Marx once said that religion is the opium of the people.
Churches of all denominations, including the Catholic Church, are a part of Europe.
They are not only part of European history, but also part of life in Europe today, since it is churches that shape the citizens of our countries.
Communities and nations are the first to benefit from dialogue, or even cooperation, between churches.
All of these different faiths coexist alongside each other in our town and cooperate with the Wrocław authorities, which is a fine example of good cooperation.
In recent days the churches in America, and particularly in New Orleans, have demonstrated that they are capable of more than the incompetent state administration. &#160;&#160; Madam President, first of all I wish to point out that organised religions have only been around for some 2&#160;000 years, and we are in danger of elevating them to a position that they should not have.
Yes, freedom of religion is a fundamental right in the European Union, but separation of Church and State is one of the basic principles underpinning our modern society.
I would also remind you that this principle is strongly emphasised in the debate on Islam currently taking place in most Member States.
Religious and non-denominational organisations are an important voice in society and it is therefore fitting that the EU should have a dialogue with these organisations.
However, such a dialogue should fulfil the regular criteria of transparency that apply to all activities of the EU institutions.
Frankly, closed meetings with organisations hand-picked by President Barroso are neither transparent nor balanced.
Finally, in reply to a Parliamentary question, President Barroso had agreed to organise the dialogue in the spirit of the EU Constitution, even if it is not in force yet.
Yet on a more serious note, Madam&#160;President, I would point out to the Commission, with the full respect that I have for the young people who arrived in Cologne in search of spirituality and hope, that religion does not have a monopoly on this debate.
Secularism is asking itself exactly the same questions: they are the questions of our civilisation.
I should also like to make it clear that, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 on access to documents, the Commission can answer any questions concerning the attendance list.
Parliament greatly emphasises the need for dialogue, provided, of course, that such dialogue is balanced and transparent.
Personally speaking, I am totally convinced, not so much by certain remarks made by Mr&#160;Combes, but rather by a politician, many of whose works I have read and who I have held in high regard, Aristide&#160;Briand, who in fact brought us a law of separation of Church and State, a law that, in my opinion, he caused to command great respect when he had it adopted.
I believe that, in today’s civil society, it is necessary for governments, both at national and European level, to be in touch with a civil society where faiths, which are undoubtedly different but which respect one other, are expressed.
That is what I wished to say very simply, in the hope that this dialogue might be developed and with respect shown towards all of the conditions that you consider legitimate. &#160;&#160; Madam President, what the Commissioner has said in relation to Regulation (EC) No&#160;1049/2001 is incorrect, and I speak as the rapporteur on that regulation.
Any documents that are requested can be refused only under Article 4 – exceptions – and Article 9 – sensitive documents.
The Commission reacted immediately to the accidents by stepping up its contacts with the civil aviation authorities of the Member States concerned in order to gather together all relevant information.
The Commission dispatched a group of experts to Cyprus in order to assess, at the scene, the air transport situation and to identify the specific needs and difficulties.
The Commission contributed towards having an action programme adopted by the managing directors of European civil aviation, who met in Romania on 27&#160;August.
Over and above these reactions, however, we must continue to act resolutely in increasing air safety, in order to enhance passenger confidence and, furthermore, to confront the rapid growth in air traffic.
In actual fact, the main objective of an initial proposal in the transport sphere was to increase air safety.
Such a measure will enable us to inform the public but also to avoid different approaches from one Member State to another.
In actual fact, banning measures must be enforced throughout the entire EU territory and must be taken on the basis of a common set of criteria.
In order to achieve this, the Commission must be able to promptly extend the banning measures taken at national level to the entire EU territory: citizens from across the whole of the EU must have the same guarantees.
The proposal for a Regulation on the identity of air carriers, which was submitted to the European Parliament in February, offers the possibility of promptly implementing such a measure, and at this point I should like to congratulate Mrs&#160;De&#160;Veyrac, the rapporteur for the Committee on Transport and Tourism, who took the initiative to complete the text proposed by the Commission and on which the Council of Ministers issued an agreement in principle.
To achieve that, the Commission will very shortly submit proposals aimed at transferring to the European Aviation Safety Agency the management of the safety assessment of foreign aircraft - I am referring to the SAFA programme - and at implementing an early warning system between the Member States, the EASA and the Commission.
Thirdly, the Community must have at its disposal a coherent and uniform set of rules covering all safety-related issues, and, in order to prepare and implement those rules, the role of our European Aviation Safety Agency must be consolidated.
This extension will allow the European Aviation Safety Agency to intervene effectively in order to ensure that both European and third country carriers are monitored.
The European Union is prepared to continue providing its technical assistance to developing countries and to play a major role within the ICAO.
Only this morning, I received a government minister from Latin America, to whom I explained that we were at the disposal of the States concerned to assist them in strengthening technical cooperation in this area.
I also hope – I say this before Parliament – that the European Union can occupy a place as such within the ICAO, precisely in order to play an even more decisive role in increasing safety levels.
To summarise, ladies and gentlemen, I can state that, even before the serious accidents that took place this summer, the European Union, through this draft Regulation on passenger information, had already anticipated the need to offer passengers the opportunity of knowing the identity of air carriers.
I hope that the entire text, which has been enhanced by the work of your committee, can promptly be adopted by Parliament and can receive the approval of the Member States.
The high increase in air traffic could lead to a rise in the number of aviation accidents and in the number of deaths, with some experts even predicting that by 2020 there will be on average one accident per week.
That is why we, like the United States is doing, must put right the existing shortcomings and make provision for a European system which, alongside the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), would do more to increase air safety.
Within the draft report that I presented on Tuesday before the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I requested, in particular, that a black list based on a set of objective safety criteria be drawn up, which would be valid throughout the entire EU territory.
To ensure that this list of banned air carriers is enforced throughout the entire EU territory – you have spoken about this, Commissioner – the criteria on the basis of which the list will be drafted must be drawn up at Community level.
Every carrier included in the black list will be grounded throughout the entire EU territory, as it is unthinkable that a carrier could be declared deficient and allowed to transport passengers.
The proposed system would enable us to strengthen coordination among the civil aviation authorities of the Member States, while leaving it to those authorities to take the initiative regarding safety measures.
What this again highlights is not only the sad topicality of the debate around the Commission’s proposal for a regulation on information for airline passengers, but also the urgent need for rules to enhance safety in the air transport sector.
I welcome in particular the demand for a single shared list based on shared and harmonised objective criteria, as well as the associated demand for a flight ban to be imposed on the airlines on it.
It goes without saying that there should always only be one person to whom the passengers can address their concerns or with responsibility for dealing with them.
As, however, any regulation without consequences would be an ineffective one, passengers must be in a position to draw their own conclusions.
I am glad that we can expect the Commission’s support for this, and that everyone in this House acknowledges that it is imperative that this regulation be transposed as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall only add a couple of points to what Mrs&#160;De&#160;Veyrac has said.
Before this August, we were probably all satisfied with the air safety situation throughout the world and with the EU’s evident ability to be in the forefront in this area.
If, in this debate on its future, there is one area of European Union competence that quite clearly lies at Community level, I would say that it is safety.
We have to take this road, so that even the Member States understand that the sooner they transfer their powers to the European Union in this field, the better it will be for everybody and the more effectively action can be taken.
I also know how difficult that can be, not only for reasons of immediate safety, but also because of the need to prevent what has, unfortunately, happened to some degree in maritime transport happening in aviation, where airlines must not be allowed to operate under flags of convenience.
The protection of airspace and of flight passengers must be given absolute priority. &#160;&#160; . – What a tragic irony, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that we are debating air safety today, when just yesterday there was another tragic accident in Indonesia which cost the lives of at least 140 people.
I should like to take this incident and the accident which claimed so many lives in Greece on 14 August, involving an aircraft operated by a private company in which 121 of our fellow human beings lost their lives prematurely, as my starting point for pondering on the image of the air transport sector recently.
There have been six international accidents which have cost the lives of approximately 625 people since the beginning of 2005.
What we need to do, therefore, and what comes within our jurisdiction, is to amend the air transport directive and the relevant regulations, so that there are no repercussions on safety issues in the companies' fight for profits. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, Commissioner, I was there half an hour after the aeroplane crashed in Grammatiko.
We finance them and it is precisely because we help Olympic Airways that you are closing down the company and directing us to companies with a brief to kill even more people.
We are here to protect the citizens of Europe from harm, not to come along afterwards for memorials.
Public opinion in Cyprus has been damaged and is trying to come to terms with the fact that 121 lives were lost, including those of many children, and entire families were wiped out.
In the European Union, we can move towards stricter specifications and enhanced control and prevention roles; at the same time, without being against the liberalisation of the skies, we believe that, because of this liberalisation, additional controls are needed by national civil aviation authorities and additional controls by your Commission of the Member States' national civil aviation authorities. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it would be true to say that August 2005 was a black month for civil aviation, and it is a good thing that we are again giving our attention to air safety.
We have to work towards guaranteeing the citizens of the EU, and the air passengers among them in particular, safety in every conceivable respect.
The rapporteur has explained it.
The proposals are excellent, and, if we combine our efforts, we really can get it over and done with very quickly – at first reading, indeed.
Apart from that, we are side by side on what is very much the right road. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, where this European list, and these European criteria, which will enable you to act promptly when something goes wrong, are concerned, you can count on our support.
The proposals you are tabling now should have been dealt with at the time when the Commission incorporated a huge number of the items, many of which were rejected, often by the Member States.
I think that Parliament will accept this view, but I hope that this time round, the Member States too will be somewhat more accommodating.
We must, as a matter of urgency, have this black list and all criteria in place by the end of this year. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, safety is an integral part of the right to mobility that we are called upon to guarantee.
The effects of those policies on safety and on the right to mobility itself must be made perfectly clear and, in our opinion, they should be seen as detrimental and a cause for concern.
The role of transport sector workers is fundamental in this, and it may prove decisive in ensuring that adequate standards are met.
Good trade union relations are essential, not only to ensure respect for workers’ rights but also to safeguard all our citizens.
In this context, I must report a serious situation to this House: the discrimination that the largest trade union representing flight attendants is experiencing in Italy, as the board of Alitalia is denying its right to take part in negotiations.
For this reason, I support the proposal of a Community-level list drawing European citizens’ attention to airlines that fail to meet safety requirements.
I support the proposal that a Community-level list should be drawn up on the basis of common criteria.
It has happened that the names of a number of audited national air traffic control bodies and airlines that guarantee proper safety standards have also been included in the list published by the newspaper.
I therefore urge that the legislation should enter into force immediately after its adoption, and that proposals should be put forward for the transitional period as regards any lists countries intend to publish officially at national level.
I should like to add, however, Commissioner, without just restating what other Members have already said, that I hope that all this really will be included in a programme with greater strategic scope, so that Europe may play a leading role on the world stage in the area of air safety as well.
In other words, a carrier from the Persian Gulf or Asia that operates in a relatively rich catchment area will devote greater resources to the safety of its airline.
In view of this situation, I believe that Europe should put itself in a position to protect its own airlines from increasingly cut-throat competition, by focusing its competitive edge on raising safety levels and not lowering them. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when the decision was taken to lift restrictions on air transport, very many of us predicted what, unfortunately, is happening today: the decline in safety and the appearance of high-risk carriers, a kind of equivalent to the system of flags of convenience in the maritime transport sector.
Yet, the Member States have often turned a deaf ear.
I believe that everyone here is in agreement in saying that the black lists must be European, and that each time a Member State decides to ban an air carrier, the other Member States must be able to automatically enforce the same ban.
I believe that we must go further, however, by calling for a genuine principle of authorisation enabling the European Union, with the European Aviation Safety Agency in particular, to establish whether or not the carrier and the aircraft used comply with our safety rules.
As for the rest, I would emphasise the need to mobilise the Member States, as it has often been Parliament and the Commission that, together, have tried to improve the situation.
May the unacceptable and dreadful tragedies that we have witnessed serve as a lesson to those in power in our various countries. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like firstly to express our sincerest condolences and sympathy to the families and friends of the victims, and I would like in particular to mention the young Eva María Gonzalo Torrellas, who died in the accident in Peru on 23 August, a young woman from Tarazona, in my region, who worked in London and who chose to go to Peru for a holiday.
It is therefore urgent that we are able to safeguard a development that many of our citizens have enjoyed: the popularisation and democratisation of the possibility of travelling long distances in order to visit one’s loved ones, to work, to get to know different places and cultures, to enrich our lives.
Commissioner, people are more important than profits.
As of April, this starting point was followed by an agreement in principle from the Member States.
Yet, this summer has demonstrated the need to go beyond what the Member States had agreed to.
I would like to thank your Committee on Transport and Tourism, and Mrs&#160;De&#160;Veyrac in particular, for its excellent work.
Mrs&#160;De&#160;Veyrac has also mentioned the overall set of data which, at European level, will be far more significant and will enable far more effective action to be taken.
The Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, Mr&#160;Costa, whom I also thank, has insisted that the Commission be willing to provide an explanation of its overall strategy.
Let us not forget, however, that the effect of an increase in competition was a certain decrease in tariffs, which opened up air travel to young people and to people on tighter budgets.
I thank Parliament for offering us assistance to ensure that this regulation takes effect and is a great deal more specific.
Today, the lesson has been learnt, and Parliament and the Commission must henceforth be able to convince, or finish convincing, the Member States that European powers are crucial, not in order to take away national powers, but to check that those national powers are exercised, with the necessary means and the required determination.
The new proposal for a regulation that I am going to present will also include provisions enabling the European Aviation Safety Agency to deal with equipment, pilots, pilot training and flight plans, in such a way as to be able, as it were, to give the crew members both the training and the authority they need to set flight plans and to prevent people from making demands of them that are scarcely, or not at all, compatible with safety.
I would like to thank the European Parliament for having supported the Galileo programme from the very start.
I would particularly like to thank Mrs&#160;Barsi-Pataky for her excellent report and for also having supported, with a great deal of intelligence, the Galileo programme.
We want to set up, at European level, the first worldwide satellite radionavigation system specifically for civilian purposes, a project that ties in with the European Union’s growth strategy as defined by the Lisbon European Council in 2000.
It truly is the first great European industrial and space project.
The development phase of the programme is running smoothly.
The current development phase will be followed by the deployment phase, and then by the commercial operating phase.
The system will be brought into operation progressively between 2008 and 2010.
The choice of a concession contract emerged as the most appropriate way to ensure the success of the programme in the framework of a Public Private Partnership.
The proposal submitted to you aims to provide financing for the Community contribution to the Galileo programme during the deployment and commercial operating phases.
In addition, the proposal bases the programme on a specific legal instrument, consistent with the future European space programme and better able to respond to the need for good financial management.
We will need to create a specific budget heading for the deployment and commercial operating phases of the programme, for three reasons.
Firstly, the programme has now reached maturity.
The commercial revenues generated by the operation of the system should ensure financial stability over time.
In conclusion, the proposal for a regulation put before you responds to the requirements arising from proper implementation of the deployment and commercial operating phases of the programme, to the requirement for good financial management and to the need for a grand European project that has reached an advanced stage of maturity.
I very much hope that Parliament will follow Mrs&#160;Barsi-Pataky’s lead and give us all the support that this great project needs.
This new global-scale infrastructure differs from its predecessors (the GPS and GLONASS systems) in that it is designed for civil and commercial (and not military) purposes, and as a result has become a joint project of all 25 Member States.
The legislation before us concerns the financing of the deployment and initial operating phase in the period 2007-2013.
Galileo is a PPP project involving both Community and private finance, and having a concession holder.
Negotiations on the concession contract have begun, and so I felt that Parliament needed to make all the decisions that it wants taken into account in the negotiations. 1.
It is important that Parliament should state, in its Opinion, that it supports the inclusion of a contribution of EUR 1&#160;billion as a specific budget line in the Financial Perspective. 2.
The Community will not only provide financial support for the project, but will also allow the concession holder to retain the revenues from the licences and other related rights, although the Community will retain ownership of these licences and rights. 3.
Parliament recommends integration of the EGNOS programme, which ensures compatibility with the American GPS system and is a precursor of the Galileo programme (rather like introducing marketing). 4.
In the interests of the programme’s success, Parliament expects the implementers of the Galileo programme to keep to the deadlines.
Parliament will check and monitor this constantly, in its annual budget debates. 7.
Parliament supports the inclusion of research on GNSS satellite navigation in the 7th Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development, and at the same time recommends also including development of Galileo user applications in the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme, specifically with the involvement of small and medium enterprises. 8.
The amendment is technical in nature and concerns the withdrawal of the reference to 2004 as base year.
I would like to express my gratitude for this excellent opportunity for conciliation and cooperation with the European Commission.
So this evening, although I have to apologise that Mr Lewandowski is unable to participate in the debate, I want to give this project our full backing.
I pay tribute to the rapporteur and the constructive attitude of the Commissioner on this subject, which is extremely important because of the added value that Europe is bringing to it.
I hope we will make sure that accountability is always the order of the day and that any financial guarantees that have to be given by the Council or Parliament are most carefully adhered to. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, I too wish to take my turn in welcoming the Commission proposal and Mrs Pataky's report.
That I see as being the most important thing about this project.
As has been said, the civil project in the European Union is meant to be set up as a public-private partnership, and the experts believe that it will create up to 150&#160;000 jobs.
What is, of course, important is that we make the public funds available, and that is where I think we may still come a cropper, for the Council has not yet been able to agree on the Financial Perspective, one of the items in which is – of course – this EUR&#160;1 billion for this project.
There are very practical considerations behind this, for third countries have acquired smaller holdings – China in particular, which bought a share in our project on 30&#160;October 2003.
I have conducted my own inquiries in Oberpfaffenhofen and seen how our know-how and intellectual property are not secure.
While we want third countries to be involved and markets to be conquered, we must also see to it that our intellectual property is protected.
I wish the rapporteur, Mrs Barsi-Pataky, every success in getting her report through. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Galileo Programme is both very ambitious and extremely challenging in scientific and technical terms, which is why it is so costly.
In most other respects we are lagging behind the latter, for example in scientific and technological fields, but Galileo is superior to its American counterpart, or in other words GPS, which was originally conceived as a military system.
What is more, at a time such as this, when the European Union is competing for public support against a background of debates on the fate of the Constitutional Treaty, this is an opportunity for us to develop a project that will enable the creation of thousands of new and much-needed jobs, to say nothing of its other benefits.
The end result will be that we are left with nothing.
One final comment;&#160;I am delighted that the bodies responsible for such matters in the Czech Republic share my views on the future of the Galileo project, namely that it should be seen in terms of a wide variety of possible civilian applications.
I am also delighted that they are not only in favour of the system being built, but are also taking the relevant practical steps to implement it. &#160;&#160; Madam President, like the EU’s other institutions, this Chamber is forever prepared to get involved in areas with which the EU should not concern itself.
The various debates this evening are revealing.
The EU’s political legitimacy is therefore in constant decline.
The Galileo project is one such area.
We are concerned here with developing a European infrastructure in a very important area of high technology.
The individual countries cannot manage this task successfully.
I therefore welcome the Galileo project and recommend that the Chamber support the proposal to implement its deployment and operating phases.
For once, the EU is on the right track. &#160;&#160; Madam President, now that we are entering the development phase of this remarkable programme, as well as its deployment phase in which all of the space- and ground-based infrastructure will be created, it seems to us that two points are still vague.
It therefore leaves Europe dependent on the US military system for defence applications, and there is no real guarantee that the service will continue in the case of crises similar to the Gulf War, for example.
Indeed, in the case of China, a financial partner in the Galileo programme, we cannot ignore the political origin and the potentially dangerous military interests, a field in which space technology can also be used by missiles.
In the circumstances, we call on the Commission to present a proposal that aims to safeguard the independence and room for manoeuvre of this programme in order to make Europe truly independent and to limit, or even to avoid completely, the risks of technology transfer in cases regarded as potentially dangerous. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to start by thanking our rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Barsi-Pataky, for having finalised her report in record time.
When we consider how long it took the Council of Ministers to reach a decision &#160;almost a decade&#160; the European Parliament can be proud of having recognised the true importance of the Galileo project.
How should young people prepare themselves so that they can have access to these jobs? &#160;&#160; Madam President, these days, we can see on a screen where we are and in what direction we should be heading to get to our intended destination.
Were such a system not yet in existence, it would have been a good idea to examine at European level whether something like this were technically feasible and could be put into production.
That is why there are those in my group who have never supported this project. &#160;&#160; Madam President, first of all I must congratulate Mrs&#160;Barsi-Pataky on her report and particularly on her proposal to provide the Galileo programme with an ambitious Community budget, following on from what Commissioner&#160;Barrot defended.
It is true that the financial perspectives will have to be discussed but, in any event, I think that we must give priority to the billion intended for the Galileo programme.
The Galileo programme, as Mrs&#160;De&#160;Veyrac has just said, confirms the European Union’s true independence, and will make possible a number of applications.
There is no doubt that we need to focus on providing the human resources to make full use of the new opportunities provided by this programme.
I can well understand that Parliament particularly wishes to be involved in this programme.
I would also like to thank your Committee on Transport and Tourism and the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy for their support for the European Commission’s proposal.
Mrs&#160;Barsi-Pataky’s report goes in the direction wanted by the Commission, which can accept all the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, with the exception of Amendments&#160;13 and 25.
Most of the amendments significantly improve the text and make a positive contribution to the programme.
Amendments&#160;9, 10, 20 and 21 specify that the budgetary authority will be asked to give its approval in cases where financial guarantees or commitments arising from the programme exceed the budgetary allocation provided.
The experts appointed by Parliament within some of these agencies are simply experts appointed for their qualifications and do not represent Parliament as an institution.
That is why I hope that we will clearly confine ourselves to our mutual responsibilities and that Parliament will fully assume its responsibility for control.
I thank you and I hope that Parliament will support this great project by a large majority. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate on this item.
The vote will be held tomorrow, Tuesday, at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; . – I am delighted that our committee is unanimous in its support for this project.
It is vital for: - technological reasons: this is an innovative project and is an improvement on the guarantee of services provided by the US-owned GPS. - economic reasons: the sector needs to retain an appropriate level of activity.
The EU has limited itself to creating the conditions for the emergence of the necessary new activities.
The PRS goes in this direction and enables each country to gain access to a technology that would be unattainable for them on their own.
This cooperation also includes countries outside the EU.
This is a good project; let us hope that it will soon find its place in the budgetary plan.
