Madam President, you will be aware that the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development is currently meeting in our Brussels building.
You may not be aware that there are two representatives of the Burmese military junta taking part in that conference.
As you know, the European Union has a common position, supported by this House, not to grant visas to members of the Burmese military junta.
I understand that the Council has waived the ban for this conference, as it felt that this was necessary in view of its obligations to the United Nations.
Thank you, Mr Corbett.
I agree with Mr Van Orden.
I make no comment on the issue that was being raised, but this is the second time that access to Parliament has been impeded by the same demonstrators.
I asked the departments concerned twice and they assured me that these documents had been transmitted to all the Members of this Parliament.
I consider it an absolute disgrace that these people are able to come here and speak in our very own parliament.
Mr Staes, thank you for informing me that you received the documents last night.
Obviously I was not speaking on behalf of the European Parliament in this congratulatory telegram, but simply expressing myself on a personal basis.
Mr Galeote Quecedo, certainly I raised the matter of this new attack, here in the Chamber at 5 p.m.
It is the first time I have heard that drink driving is not just a crime but the sort of a crime which can only be punished by violating borders.
Situation in the Middle East The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the situation in the Middle East.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the Middle East is deteriorating.
Distrust between the parties is growing.
The economic situation is also difficult.
The Palestinian Authority is in deep financial crisis since the Israeli transfer payments were halted and normal economic activities ceased in the area.
The only solution to the conflict lies in negotiation.
Therefore the peace process must continue.
Both the Egyptian-Jordanian initiative and the Mitchell Report demand a freeze on all settlements.
The EU has defined its positions on the issue in the Berlin Declaration of March 1999 and in the New York Declaration of 12 September 2000.
Considerable progress has been achieved in negotiations between Israel and Syria.
The EU will actively contribute to the continued peace process in cooperation with other states affected and through High Representative Javier Solana, special envoy Miguel Moratinos and the Commission.
The European Union is regularly urged to play a stronger part in the Middle East.
The core principles of our position are that peace must be built on international law, on the relevant UN Resolutions including UN Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338 and on the formula 'Land for Peace'.
We, that is all the European Union institutions, should clearly restate these principles in all our contacts with the parties to this bitter dispute.
The European Union continues to support any efforts to find a peaceful solution to the conflict.
Violence must stop.
On the Israeli side there is no justification for the disproportionate use of force against civilians and the destruction of property.
In the case of the Palestinian Authority, we need to see the implementation of long-overdue reforms both in financial and political terms including democratic transparency, fighting against corruption and strengthening the rule of law.
I would like to refer to two concrete and practical points today about which I am regularly asked by Parliament: the effect of the economic blockade on the Palestinian Authority and the policy of settlements.
The Palestinian Authority is still facing financial and institutional collapse.
The international donor meeting in Stockholm on 11 April was a good step forward in bringing a solution to the Palestinian Authority's budgetary crisis.
Some of these measures, in particular those referring to institutional reform, constitute a clear confirmation of commitments announced in the past by the Palestinian Authority.
The Palestinian Authority is also working on other welcome reforms related to financial management, such as the consolidation of revenues.
Let me turn now to Israel's settlement policy.
The European Union's position on settlements is clear.
I am often asked, particularly in view of the failure of our efforts to resolve the issue, what this means for the working of our Association Agreement with Israel and in particular for the question of rules of origin which is covered by the Agreement.
The communication made it clear that preferential access to Community markets for exports originating in Israeli settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and in East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights, and I quote, "contravenes agreed rules of origin since these territories do not form part of the State of Israel under public international law".
That was a point recently made very seriously in a similar case by the Court of First Instance which has stated that the existence of political tensions, and I quote, "does not exonerate the Commission as guardian of the Treaty and of the agreements concluded under it from ensuring the correct implementation by a third country of the obligation it has contracted to fulfil under an agreement concluded with the Community".
If, I stress the word if, Israel wants to declare goods coming from the settlements as being of Israeli origin, EU customs authorities would not be able to share this interpretation.
Customs is a Community competence and the implementation of this common policy is delegated to Member States, but the role of the Commission is to ensure coherence and to avoid divergent interpretations by different Member States.
This issue will be signalled at the EU-Israel Association Committee on 21 May.
I wish to stress that our decision will be entirely based on the law and its technical application case by case.
In general, the Arab countries are becoming ever more demoralised and positions are hardening.
Unquestionably, the European Union has already made a significant effort to offer economic support, in line with its global political vision for the region.
Madam President, with a death toll of nearly 500 since the resumption of hostilities in the occupied territories, the material situation of the Palestinian people is worse than it was before the Oslo Accords.
In face of this disastrous situation, the European Union must raise its voice and call for respect for the law; in other words, we must focus on essentials again, and I thank Mr Patten for having done that so clearly.
That is precisely what the Pope said in his speech in Damas and I hope that this time the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats will not disavow it. (Applause)In any case, we welcome the fact that recital D and point 13 of the joint motion for a resolution recall that fundamental point.
Israel, like any other country, has the right to live in peace within secure and recognised frontiers.
But Israel, like any other country, must recognise its international frontiers.
If Europe wants to make a credible contribution to this debate, we must not choose one side or the other, but always the side of peace, democracy and human rights.
If it turns out to be true that there are doubts about the certificates issued by Israel and the Member States and the Commission do not act immediately and firmly, Europe will be complicit in the policy of settlement that we all abhor.
The issue of products from the settlements must be addressed, but we also feel that normal trade should be scrutinised carefully and that the Commission should take initiatives in that direction on 21 May.
Yesterday, in an article in the newspaper, Ha'aretz, Daniel Bensimon condemned Mr Sharon's false motives in respect of the natural population expansion of the settlements.
The European Union - as Parliament has stressed - must play a political role: international law must be applied in real life and not just proclaimed in declarations.
In this sense, respect for the agreements signed by Israel must be ensured, including the agreement concluded with the European Union which lays down a ban on the exporting of goods produced in the settlements to Europe.
The question that really has to be answered is: who is going to broker an end to the violence in the Middle East?
A peaceful solution in the Middle East can be achieved.
Issues, including the status of Jerusalem, the borders of the Palestinian State, the fate of Jewish settlements and the right of return of Palestinian refugees, were all being discussed between the two sides last year.
It took another twelve years before a comprehensive peace process got under way at the Madrid Conference in October 1999, which enshrined the principle of exchanging land for peace.
The permanent status negotiations resumed in September 1999.
Thirdly, the Dutch minister argues for "a more effective international effort to promote a healthy institutional and democratic development of the Palestinian administration" .
At any rate they can count on the support of the Israeli vice-premier Nathan Sharansky.
Ladies and gentlemen, what we must do here is not dismiss the Palestinians, who are defending the right of a people to a homeland, as extremists.
What we must actually do here is ask ourselves why, despite the resolutions, the autonomous activities of a community are still subject to Israeli approval, why a recently-built airport cannot operate, why the extermination of a community of 4 million people which, since the beginning of the Yom Kippur war, has been reduced by almost 10% by a subtle, insidious, treacherous, poisonous, cynical, cruel war which shows no mercy to women or children, is not considered to be genocide.
The Austrian chancellor Bruno Kreisky was one of the first to urge Israeli politicians to start direct talks with Arafat.
To do all this, we need high-profile, persuasive people to represent Europe, who will be taken seriously by all parties in the Middle East.
I arrived back in Strasbourg last night directly from visiting Israel.
The vote will take place on Thursday.
The international community' s appeals for dialogue and peace have been ignored or sidelined.
In my view, Madam President, if the two initiatives now on the table fail to bear fruit, we shall have to come up with a formula to allow us to break the current deadlock.
As you pointed out, in this case we have a resolution which, I hope, will be adopted by a very wide majority, in which practically all the political groups undertake initiatives in respect of the Commission and the Council.
I would like to thank Commissioner Patten for the clarity and determination with which he has re-established international law and responsibilities in economic relations with Israel as well.
The Treaty of Amsterdam has provided us with tools which have not yet been used in this field.
I feel that this debate has been useful and, above all, I call upon the Council to take the resolution into due consideration.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the latest wave of violence and terror in the Middle East must be roundly condemned.
As far as the European Union is concerned, it is our duty to strengthen our position in the peace talks, in view of all our humanitarian and geostrategic interests in this region as well as our important trading relations.
Everyone knows that the peace process will be long and arduous, but I remain convinced that with the necessary trust, the indispensable political will and the necessary perseverance we can achieve our common goal, of a peaceful and prosperous Middle East.
Madam President, the most surprising thing about our debate is our surprise, for Israel's expansionist policy is the inevitable and predictable result of the growing imbalance in the region, the stability for which we bear much of the responsibility.
There is, however, another serious imbalance for which we are in part responsible, namely the imbalance of forces.
That is the policy my country pursued in the 1970s when it gave Iraq a nuclear force.
So we will carry on with our policy of imbalance and what is happening today is merely the annoying but inevitable result of our collective blindness and cowardice.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked or would like to see many Members, as also the Commission and the Council, show the same determination in relation to Chechnya, where 100 000 people have been killed in less than two years, or to occupied Tibet, where there have been 1.2 million deaths in forty years.
Unfortunately, some people, both in the Council and the Commission and in our Parliament, seem to have short memories when it comes to these issues.
That is a prospect that would allow the European Union to make greater concessions, even in territorial terms, and allow Palestine to develop and Israel to live in security in this part of the world.
This proposal has already been signed by thirty Members of the European Parliament and a number of members of the Knesset.
I invite Members to sign it as soon as possible so that we can hold a major debate on this proposal.
I sincerely believe that nobody will make peace in the Middle East unless the two parties are resolved to do so and unless the various proposals put forward in this Chamber just now, by Members as also by the Council and by the Commission, are taken into consideration.
If, as we must continue to hope, the wish for peace exists, and only if it exists, then we must also support the idea of deploying an international observers' force, in which Europe could and should take part.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, friend of Israel, today I am preparing to vote for a resolution that in fact takes Israel severely to task.
Let me add that although I understand the Israeli people' s concern for their security, I cannot accept statements or acts by Mr Ariel Sharon that I personally would condemn on the part of anyone else.
Precisely in the name of my friendship towards Israel, let me say to the Israelis that they will not achieve the security they deserve by the use of force and that the settlements are a serious mistake.
Let me also say that the Palestinians have the right to a state.
I have found such a position set out in the statements by the Council and the Commission.
I also hope that our resolution will be a contribution and I am sure the Mitchell Commission' s report could form the basis for new negotiations.
Madam President, Israel and Palestine are two independent nations but they are not yet two independent states.
There are 145 settlements in the West Bank, 16 in Gaza, 9 in East Jerusalem; 400,000 people live in them.
Only 42% of West Bank territory is controlled by the Palestinians, 58% is either in military camps or settlements and too often the military camps lead to the settlements.
Regarding the meeting of 21 May, addressed by several of the speakers, the Council is providing every support to the Commission for the course of action which Commissioner Patten has described and which means that we must now follow the rules and clearly show that the EU cannot accept Israel continuing to break them.
As many of you have pointed out, the current policy increases the risk of benefiting extremist groups.
In particular, and the Commission has also played a part in developing this, we assume a major financial responsibility today for the Palestinian areas and for ensuring that the situation does not become even worse in these areas.
By commissioning Javier Solana to draw up a roadmap for the Gothenburg Summit, we anticipate that the EU will be able to provide a further substantial contribution to the peace process and achieve a better, more long-term strategy for the EU' s involvement in the Middle East.
The issue of rules of origin was raised in the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament to which I referred earlier.
The General Affairs Council at the end of June 1998 took note of our communication and asked the Commission to resolve these issues on a technical level.
On 16 December 1999 the Commission informed COREPER on the outcome of these meetings.
After this meeting Member States returned around 2000 EUR1 certificates to Israel for verification.
All along there has been a notice to importers which was first published in the Community Official Journal of 8 November 1997 warning exporters of doubts regarding EUR1 certificates from Israel.
As for what we will say on 21 May, we can discuss human rights under the essential elements clause of our Agreement, we will certainly discuss for the first time this summer rules of origin - that is already on the agenda - but I want to be scrupulous in sticking to the letter and the spirit of our Agreement.
The debate is closed.
Transatlantic relations are good.
We have a shared responsibility to meet global challenges and contribute to a more peaceful and more democratic world as well as to work for a dynamic multilateral trade system.
This debate also gives me an opportunity to set out in a few words why the Commission recently presented a communication on reinforcing the transatlantic relationship and how we would hope to see that initiative followed up in Parliament and the Council.
The 1995 new transatlantic agenda shifted the focus of our relationship from one of consultation to joint action.
That sort of attitude betrays a terrible lack of self-confidence in what it means to be a European.
In my specific area of responsibility, the added value and positive results are obvious in our close partnership with the Balkans.
I had been greatly encouraged by the new Administration's commitment to maintaining America's vital role in world affairs.
President Bush chose to emphasise the point in his inaugural speech, when he said, and I quote "America remains engaged in the world by history and by choice".
It is vital that we persuade the United States to embrace and maintain its multilateral commitments and we in the European Union can best help to do this, not by finger wagging and moralising, but by facing up to our own responsibilities and following through our own commitments with our financial assistance and other policy instruments.
When the United States and the European Union work together, we set the international agenda.
I will be brief because I know there are some time constraints, but one could, of course, speak at length about security and defence cooperation as an important element of our partnership.
As the Secretary-General of NATO, Lord Robertson, put it very succinctly last year, this is not about Europe going it alone, but about Europe doing more.
These strategic themes should not be seen as a selection of priorities, but rather as overarching principles which will remain valid over several years and provide a framework for specific issues and priorities to be tackled over a shorter time period.
Our message is simple: fewer meetings, more substance and more political leadership.
The transatlantic link in my view is our most important relationship.
It is important for the European Union and for the United States and indeed for the world.
However, on the larger range of issues, where the United States and the European Union work together, we do set between us the international agenda.
We have a timely communication before us, which points to the breadth and growth of the transatlantic relationship from the declaration in 1990 to the new transatlantic agenda in 1995.
Secondly, the communication contains ideas on how to make the process more effective.
But I think it is wise for us to ask whether these perspectives are really sufficient for the next five years.
We need not be brutal, but we do have to make our concerns clear, as they have been outlined in both speeches.
In a world where globalisation in constantly increasing, it is worrying that the Bush Administration is glorying in unilateralism.
Lastly, I would like to say that a fortnight ago I had the opportunity of leading a visit by my group to Congress in Washington.
I agree with the observations of colleagues about fears of a drift in certain cases towards unilateralism, some of the points about bilateral versus multilateral trade and issues about Kyoto, the Echelon Committee, the death penalty, and so on.
Our unique contribution as parliamentarians to the quality of this dialogue will be in establishing a better quality of relationship, in particular with our counterparts in the US Congress.
It seems to me that our mission in this regard is, both in Washington DC and in Strasbourg and Brussels, to create the playing field in which the Lamys and Zellecks - or others, depending on whether we are dealing with security and defence, or whatever - can actually play.
But there is a role here, and we need to do more work on that as a unique parliamentary contribution to the playing field in which executives can deliver the goods.
My group is very concerned that in the United States there is an intention to use global resources for a missile defence system.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we seem to have reached a turning point in transatlantic relations.
Moreover, we have hardly had a chance to hold a dialogue with our transatlantic interlocutors about certain decisions that Europeans regard as shocking in a civilised society, such as the death penalty and the refusal to grant universal access to medicines to combat AIDS.
What the European Union must now do is take advantage of the arrival in office of a new US administration to review the way in which transatlantic relations are conducted and to set strict priorities to ensure that the new transatlantic agenda is more productive and constructive in terms of achieving practical results.
In fact this society, which is based on genocide and whose values constantly give way to the law of the jungle that has been christened 'liberalism' , can only survive by violence; that, in the end, is something that does not concern us.
Nor should we forget Washington's refusal to sign the agreement on nuclear testing, which the United States regards as applying to all states except itself, and a whole range of other agreements that show that Washington wants to tie down every state in the world without being bound in any way itself.
Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to pose one single question, and that is whether the Bush Administration is going to continue the Clinton Administration' s practice of exempting European companies from the application of Article III of the Helms-Burton law.
But it is not just Kyoto.
I should like, if I may, to address one last point: the United States are now the only superpower in the world and they approach foreign policy problems as such.
The best security shield is the battle against poverty.
Robust environmental legislation makes companies more innovative, more technology-oriented and more efficient.
However, since a new Congress has taken office with all the changes in personnel that that involves, it seems difficult to make real contacts.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, the transatlantic dialogue must be extended to encompass global transport policy because both the USA and we Europeans bear a special responsibility for greater safety in the air and at sea, better environmental protection and fair competition and fair trade practices.
Our primary objective must be to adopt reasonable harmonised provisions in order to develop a transatlantic transport market - be it in air or sea transport - and to work towards global regulations based on harmonised regulations between the USA and Europe, for example in the area of air traffic noise.
Mr President, I think that our debate on the transatlantic dialogue has come at a very good moment.
I need not remind Members how crucial this dialogue is with a view to achieving cooperation between equal partners, between the United States of America and the European Union.
The concept of an ally must not be a one-way road.
Regarding European defence policy as such, we must continue to state firmly what we want, as we always have done, and not systematically look at every European defence question in terms of NATO's reaction.
The Union has always emphasised the importance of complementarity between European action and Alliance action, especially in relation to the Petersberg tasks.
Discussions on US missile defence should continue.
I wish Parliament success in this area.
I should like to inform you that I have received six motions for resolutions under Rule 37 paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
Madam President, I appreciate the tactics, but would it not be more democratic if you waited until everybody came in, sat down and took part in this vote?
No, Mrs Doyle, it is not the last vote this morning.
Before the vote on block 2 by the Technical Group of Independent Members: Madam President, whenever amendments are tabled, the name of the author is given.
Thank you for that clarification.
Thank you, Mrs Thorning-Schmidt.
Mr President, I have tabled a proposed oral amendment to Amendment No 9 by Mrs Figueiredo.
Having said that, these proposals are inadequate, cynical and hypocritical.
For anyone to pretend, for example, that this aid can 'contribute to world food security' and 'respond to emergency food situations and other food needs' when several hundred of millions of people in the world find themselves in emergency situations, if not in extreme distress, mainly because the European powers represented here in Parliament plundered them in the past, is a cheap attempt to salve their conscience.
Ludford recommendation (B5­340/2001) Although this proposal is merely a statement of position and does not set out the means of imposing its recommendations, we voted for it because racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism are some of the worst forms of barbarism still alive in society today.
Our vote is also the expression of our solidarity with all those who are fighting this scourge, as also with its victims, in particular on the territory of the European Union, which has the sad privilege of having produced its most despicable forms and is still affected by it today.
The criminalisation of immigrants is a real scandal against people who are fleeing from political or economic oppression.
If we are actively to combat racism and xenophobia, we must respect the right of asylum, formulate a policy for regularising the status of all those without the necessary papers in Europe and grant nationals of third countries the right to vote and stand at all elections.
Those are a few of the measures with which we can fight racism and xenophobia effectively.
But not people.
Obviously, we voted against this motion for a resolution.
The removal of borders and the achievement of the single market on 1 January 1993 highlighted the existence of a market of more than 370 million consumers, for which accompanying rules had to be drawn up to guarantee them a number of rights.
Although the general approach of the directive adopted in 1992 proved satisfactory, the objectives set out in it were not all achieved because of the lack of clarity or gaps in some of its provisions.
The proposal is interesting overall, but several highly important amendments that Parliament had adopted at first reading, in particular the amendments on the safety of services, the precautionary principle, product monitoring and the European product safety network were not incorporated.
The responsible parliamentary committee therefore decided, justifiably, to table them again.
Conversely, the common position does include Parliament's amendments on charity shops in a recital that stipulates that, in relation to charitable activities, it may prove impossible to provide information on the origin of a product and the risks it might contain.
Furthermore, the Council common position abandons the idea of a total ban on exporting products that present serious risks, despite clarifying the concept of partial bans or no bans whatsoever, without presenting any criteria for choosing which ban to apply.
Lastly, another important issue is safety in the field of services.
Initially the Commission quite rightly claimed the right to decree a complete export ban on dangerous products.
I support the rapporteur in her aim of maintaining those powers and in addition of taking more safety measures before 2003.
We in the European Parliament are addressing this concern in a sensible, common-sense manner.
Overall, this directive is an enormous step forward in ensuring a consistent and high level of consumer protection.
The oil spill in the Baltic could have been avoided.
The legislation must be applied by all the Member States, including Belgium, Portugal, France, Ireland and the Netherlands.
In the Ortuondo report, we welcome the more stringent legislation on ship-classification societies.
Some of the amendments are heading in the right direction by proposing a strict ban on the Administration employing recognised organisations if they have economic interests in the management or properties of ships, or by reaffirming the need for coherence between the European standards and the IMO.
They only aim to ensure that for the rules of competition between states, regardless of the scale of the consequences due to errors or negligence of the recognised organisation.
Liability must be full and complete and the court or tribunal must judge and decide freely, on the basis of the real nature of each disaster.
The costs of both equipment and staff are significantly lower than in the EU.' That means that a number of road transport firms employ underpaid drivers, working in precarious conditions, for transport outside the country in which they are based.
The proposed solution is the compulsory introduction of a 'uniform driver attestation' in all the EU Member States.
The best way to combat 'social dumping' would have been to impose a minimum wage aligned with that of the country where it is highest.
Yet the European authorities prefer to impose a uniform administrative document throughout the European Union, rather than making the hauliers pay decent wages and provide decent working conditions for all their drivers, whatever their country of origin.
However, we do not take the same stance as the rapporteur, who is in favour of 'fair competition' in this sector.
The single market liberalised the carriage of goods by road.
In Ireland the level of alcohol abuse by young people has grown dramatically over the years.
The alcohol industry portrays alcohol as something that is necessary to enjoy life.
It should not be promoted as something that is necessary to enjoy life, because it is not.
The rapporteur is therefore quite right to raise these major issues.
Furthermore, consumer habits acquired in youth can also affect health and set longer-term consumption patterns, which means that we must not only give a commitment to health promotion, education and information policies, but also to measures limiting alcohol consumption by children and adolescents and structural actions in the field of treating young people and helping them to better adapt to society.
Therefore, we need to be very vigilant in face of the rising alcohol consumption by children and adolescents.
That is why I voted for this recommendation of the European Parliament, which calls on the Member States to take measures to protect young people.
Action should therefore be taken in the European Community countries to raise public awareness of the dangers of excessive alcohol consumption and persuade children, adolescents, but also parents, to be more responsible for their actions.
I would add, however, that the protection of children and adolescents against certain abuses must be absolute.
But we must also protect it against drugs, including the drugs some people dare describe as 'soft' .
Sturdy report (A5-142/2001) Mr President, we are constantly calling for environmentally-friendly, ecological production methods in multipurpose agriculture.
We already have a long tradition of this in Austria, where the rethinking process started in the minds of farmers and consumers a long time ago, unlike in many other countries of the EU.
This problem has yet to be resolved.
Mr President, the matter at hand is the measures adopted as a result of the fight against BSE.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted against the Commission' s proposal concerning the organisation of the market for beef.
We have also voted against Parliament' s report.
We have therefore voted against all amendments aimed at increasing aid.
Instead, the proposal will introduce still more bureaucratic and expensive premium schemes.
Given this crisis scenario, the Commission presented a plan of 7 proposals designed to redress the imbalances in the sector.
Nevertheless, it rejects the Commission' s proposal for strict compliance with the limit of 90 animals per holding and the future creation of a system of individual premium rights, which are positive proposals that might not only combat the tendency towards more intensive farming, but also support the implementation of a system of aid adjustment.
In any event, if the current system remains in place, we must guarantee that if rights are bypassed, the proportional reduction of the premium will not affect producers owning fewer than 15 animals.
Having failed to deal with the root cause of the disease in 1990, which is what Jacques Delors and his gang refused to do so as not to interrupt the triumphant march, firstly towards the single market and then towards the euro, we have since adopted numerous financial and technical stop-gap measures to ward off the never-ending effects of what has been a disaster in health, trade and financial terms.
This is the case of the new measure for the COM in beef and veal, which is the subject of Mr Sturdy' s excellent report.
The special premiums for male cattle and suckler cows would once again be limited to 90 animals or 1.8 LU per hectare.
Every Member State will set an individual ceiling for each of its farmers.
Mr Sturdy is proposing a series of amendments to maintain farmers' income, particularly for farmers involved in extensive farming.
To cap it all, a 'Special Purchase Scheme' is proposed for cattle over 30 months old, so that they can be stored and sold off at some point, like the terminally ill who have themselves frozen, in the hope that they can be resuscitated when a cure has been discovered.
The report is also based on increased economic commitment for the EU and the taxpayers in the area of food production, in this case in order to promote increased sales of beef to consumers.
First of all, we have reformed the CAP in order to cave in to the demands of the US Administration in the Uruguay Round negotiations.
This is the whole point of the new Council regulation, which concedes our customs duties on bananas, sugar and rice for the 48 least developed countries.
In the meantime, customs duties will be reduced by 20%, 50% and 80% by 2009.
The real problem, however, is the generosity of the socialists and the Christians, as combined in the person of our Commissioner, Pascal Lamy.
This is all the more shocking because the 48 LDCs will act as intermediaries, flooding Europe with bananas, sugar and rice from countries other than those benefiting from a wide range of preferences.
A precedent has already been set with garlic from China, for example, which is appearing in Europe via Malaysia, Jordan and other Trojan horse countries.
It is precisely the treatment of rice in this report that concerns me.
The report rightly notes that the gap between the 48 poorest countries and the others 'grew even wider' .
The visit to Ankara from 30 April to 1 May by members of the EU-Turkey Joint Parliamentary Committee showed that the European Parliament has an important role to play.
The Council, the Commission and Parliament should continue their joint efforts to stimulate the Turkish government into continued political reform in order to meet the Copenhagen Criteria and take measures to bring the hunger strikes to an end.
Meetings took place in Stockholm on 14 March and in Brussels on 26 April.
The coming Association Council with Turkey on 26 June will also cover human rights issues.
The Council will continue to monitor the development carefully in dialogue with the Turkish government and voluntary organisations.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes today's debate on the situation in Turkish prisons.
The forthcoming visit of the prisons by a delegation from the European Parliament will give new impetus to the reform of the criminal justice system in Turkey.
The Commission deeply regrets that 22 people have already died during the hunger strike in Turkey, while many others are suffering terribly.
The situation in Turkish prisons was one of the main topics of conversation between me and the Turkish foreign minister in Brussels yesterday morning.
In this respect, the Commission welcomes the fact that the Turkish parliament has already passed an amendment to Article 16 of the Turkish anti-terrorist law.
The Turkish foreign minister also informed me that two other bills are being drafted which will guarantee that sentences are properly executed.
The second law requires that a judge oversee the execution of sentences.
The situation in Turkish prisons was a cause of concern to the Commission even before the unrest broke out and the hunger strike began.
The Commission repeats the call it made to the Turkish government on 21 March 2001, i.e.
The Turkish government and Parliament should continue to work together to speed up the reform of the criminal justice system in Turkey.
Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats, I want to thank the Council and the Commission for agreeing to update us on this delicate and painful issue of the Turkish prisons.
The situation is highly critical and, as the President of the Council pointed out, it has already cost 22 lives and may cost many more.
Our objective is to support these initiatives; we do not want to interfere to no purpose but to demonstrate the European Parliament's enduring interest and vigilance in relation to human rights and everything that concerns our Turkish partner.
The very serious financial crisis put paid to some extent to the economic recovery plan that was already under way.
At the end of the summer we will have an opportunity to look at the results of this policy and to evaluate the national programme to adapt the Community acquis, which the Ankara government recently adopted.
Over the same period of time, however, the Turkish prisons have been the scene of riots that were suppressed by particularly bloody means, followed by hunger strikes that turned into death fasts.
A delegation from our Parliament will be visiting the Turkish prisons in early June to try to evaluate the situation on the ground objectively and make recommendations on a longer-term prison policy.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, as the Commissioner and President-in-Office have pointed out, we are dealing here not with a country which is far flung from Europe, but with a candidate country with a whole host of serious problems.
I recently made a short visit to Turkey with Mr Cohn-Bendit.
Turkey is a country which, because of its laws, still generates a lot of political prisoners; that is the problem.
There are not so many political prisoners because there are so many assassination attempts, there are so many political prisoners because the laws in Turkey make political prisoners out of so many people - and that should be the starting point.
Secondly, even where people become prisoners or political prisoners as the result of terrorist activities - which I do not condone but which I cannot deny - solitary confinement must be abolished or at least reduced to what is humanly bearable.
The Commissioner announced a series of measures which Turkey intends to implement.
I call on Turkey to give us, the European Parliament, and Europe a chance to help it overcome this problem, but Turkey must also show willing.
The Turkish judicial and penal system is in transition from a regime of retribution and oppression to a more western approach, where prisoners are penalised but not persecuted.
The European Union should assist this reform process by supporting financially and also technically certainly carefully selected confidence-building measures, without which the fasting will not cease.
Prison reforms are the hardest reforms of all to implement, not just in countries like Turkey, but in our own countries as well.
Applied to Turkey, this means that the situation in the prisons in a country which, culturally speaking, still has to find its democratic feet, is a mirror image of this contradiction in terms.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the hunger strike by Turkish prisoners and their relatives has been going on for months and has cost many people their lives.
We must not be indifferent to the massive violations of human rights in Turkish prisons.
The Turkish parliament recently passed a law relaxing conditions of solitary confinement.
Dialogue will allow a social consensus to be reached, while force will only be answered with force.
An important European demand in this connection is that there should be a constitutional state.
As a member of this delegation, I trust we shall receive the full cooperation of the Turkish authorities on our visit at the beginning of June, in the hope that the European Parliament by applying the principle of hearing both sides of the argument can contribute to ending the tragedy of the hunger strikers.
Mr President, my contribution to the debate concerns the Christian groups in Turkey which are punished disproportionately severely and are detained in Turkish jails precisely because of their ethnic origin and their faith.
According to the spokesman of the Armenian patriarch in the last few years 40 plots of land belonging to the Christian Armenian church have been confiscated by the Turkish state.
I am not an opponent of Turkey' s accession into the European Union, but I must say that if this mistreatment of Christians in Turkey continues, I may yet come out against Turkey' s membership.
In these circumstances it is, of course, very difficult to make people in Turkey understand why we debate these problems here in the European Parliament.
But the Turkish public needs to know that it is unacceptable in a state under the rule of law for people to die in its prisons without anyone doing anything.
Therefore, because we take Turkey seriously, because we want Turkey to have a chance in the future in the European Union, we also want Turkey to behave as we would expect our own Member States to behave.
Mr President, I shall not take advantage of the situation by taking up more time.
I can only appeal on Turkey, as my fellow member Daniel Cohn-Bendit has already done.
It would be possible to induce certain people to stop what they are doing if Turkey showed willing on the three points listed by Daniel Cohn-Bendit.
I hope that Turkey will, at last, take these efforts seriously and show a little willing and stop being so stubborn, because otherwise no-one in Europe is prepared to tolerate Turkey's behaviour.
Next time it will a president who is interrupted or attacked while making a speech.
As I said, we had a discussion about our security system in the Bureau on Monday and the Secretary-General is currently preparing a report on how it might be.
We have about 15 posts blocked.
I think it shows great, constructive involvement in the situation in Turkey.
On behalf of the Council, I would like to thank you for this work.
Hopefully, we will soon achieve concrete results in what is an important issue for us, namely the unacceptable situation in Turkish prisons.
The debate is closed.
The European Union reacted almost immediately to the fighting around Tanusevci and Tetovo by issuing declarations condemning the violence and urging all the parties involved to cease the violence immediately.
As a further sign of the EU' s support for FYROM' s political leaders, President Trajkovski was invited to the European Council in Stockholm on 23 March.
Intensive work was done by both the Commission and the EU Member States to, for example, make up the financial deficit for the new university in Tetovo, offering teaching in Albanian, and to try to rapidly implement measures to rebuild houses destroyed in the villages north of Tetovo and support other projects to strengthen inter-ethnic cohesion in the country.
At this meeting, the new coalition government will be invited to report on its progress and ongoing action plans in conjunction with the General Affairs Council of 25 - 26 June.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes the efforts of the Macedonian leadership, which culminated in the formation of a larger coalition government on Sunday, and hopes that this new government will achieve tangible results in the dialogue between the parties.
My colleague Chris Patten and the presidency will transmit this message to the new government and the president of the country when the troika of ministers of the European Union visits Skopje today.
The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Macedonia was signed in Luxembourg on 9 April.
Macedonia is the first country in the region to sign such an agreement.
The most important aspects of the agreement are the creation of free trade zone between the Community and Macedonia within ten years of the date on which the agreement enters into force, the start of political dialogue, provisions on regional cooperation, an undertaking by the Macedonian authorities to harmonise their laws with EC law, especially provisions relating to the internal market, and cooperation on justice and home affairs.
The agreement does not therefore represent the end of a process, it represents the beginning of a difficult process for this country.
It is now up to Macedonia to prove to the European Union that it has the will to fulfil the underlying criteria and, most importantly, this country must now show that it is in a position to resolve conflicts between ethnic groups through political dialogue rather than by force.
The Commission condemns the renewed acts of terrorism in northern Macedonia and urges all the members of the Albanian minority to leave it to the two official Albanian parties to explain the demands of this ethnic minority within a democratic forum, either with the new government or with the special committee chaired by President Trajkovski.
The European Union is already doing its best to facilitate this dialogue.
As the members of the European Parliament know, we are in an extremely critical phase in the history of Macedonia.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group welcomes active support for the peace process in Macedonia.
For the very first time over recent months we have seen the Council and Commission starting to act in concert in the case of the former Yugoslavia; everyone has the same take on the situation and we have joint action as a result.
The European Parliament has acted consistently since 1993.
It is the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
I think that we must definitely view Macedonia as a potential member of the European Union.
But we cannot of course say that it is in fact already a candidate, for the simple reason that the Copenhagen criteria are just not being met in Macedonia.
Mr President, I do not wish to hold up the debate, but Mr Oostlander must have misunderstood me.
If we want to avoid civil war, someone has to gainsay this philosophy of armed struggle, but not, of course, the government of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, because if it undertakes to disarm the KLA, there will definitely be civil war.
Thank you very much, Mr Katiforis.
The debate is closed.
I wish to contest their admissibility on a purely legal basis.
Now, establishing a legal framework, as well as funding, for a tiny category of parties, the so-called "European political parties" and others which fall within its definition, would lead to discrimination, which is unacceptable in the light of fundamental rights and in the light of the Treaties.
Thank you, Mr Ribeiro e Castro.
Mr President, I would like to request that we check we have a quorum before proceeding to the vote.
Ladies and gentlemen, as the request does not have sufficient support, we cannot verify a quorum.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would imagine that certain honourable members are delighted.
But I must say on behalf of the large majority of my group that we shall not allow ourselves to be discouraged by the result of this vote, which is of course in keeping with the Rules of Procedure.
I should like to make perfectly clear on behalf of my group that we shall do everything we can to obtain a party statute because it is both good and necessary to the unification of and democracy in Europe.
Mr President, the Commission and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered the question of the legal basis extremely carefully.
This regulation is drafted as a temporary measure before the Treaty of Nice comes into force and I find it absolutely shameful that the nationalists in this Parliament are seeking to suppress the growth of proper, credible and legitimate transnational political parties.
I personally take the view that, given the criticism of the Court of Auditors, it is in fact fitting that we find a solution to the problem before us and this matter should also have been dealt with politically on this basis today.
I call on you, as President and pursuant to Rule 111 of the Rules of Procedure, to put a proposal to the House, namely that the agenda be amended to allow this item to be reintroduced.
Mr President, perhaps it should be pointed out to Mr Barón Crespo that he often confuses his visions with reality.
I would, however, like to warn Mr Duff about the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
As all honourable Members know, this committee has, on various occasions, produced in-depth studies on the legal basis of our reports, which have not been considered to be such by the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs will, therefore, have to meet and discuss the matter again.
When Mr Dupuis requested that the vote be referred to committee because the translations of the amendments were not available in all the languages, we granted his request.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall limit myself to making a point of order.
It therefore seems quite clear to me that Parliament, through its vote, has decided to postpone the discussion until the Treaty of Nice has indeed been ratified.
Mr President, it is unacceptable to give the impression that minority parliamentary groups and the smallest groups in this Parliament, which have taken the initiative of proposing that we reject this report, have done so in order to conceal the funding of European political parties, or those that claim to be such.
This is simply an attempt, by the large groups in this Parliament, to cover up a decision by the European Court of Justice, which enabled them to benefit from funds to finance 'European political parties' , which are not 'parties' since they do not use universal suffrage, which are 'political' in name only, since they are only concerned about financing the activities of parliamentary groups, and finally, which are only 'European' because they are not African or Asian.
Until my view can be disproved, the funding of European political parties can only be justified, even after the Treaty of Nice, once it accepts the practice of universal suffrage, which is the only acceptable definition of a political party.
My only regret is that Mr Pasqua did not come in person to tell us how he intends to proceed in the future to ensure that the funding of political parties is carried out with the utmost transparency.
It is interesting to note that not a single instance can be found of consideration being given to the fundamental issue, namely that of whether Article 308 can be used to implement a real change in the Treaty.
Against this background, it is particularly important to place definition of a global strategy to combat poverty and social exclusion on the agenda, on the basis of Article 137 of the EU Treaty.
Although all specific measures, both local and national, are important, it is crucial that we put in place a European Union strategy designed to coordinate policies and concentrate on the fight, which must be a priority, against this genuine scandal of living at a time when wealth is being created and increasing and yet, even today, more than 50 million EU citizens do not have access to fundamental rights enshrined in the Social Charters and the Charter of Fundamental Rights itself, recently proclaimed by the Community institutions.
Nevertheless, as we all know, at the Nice Council, common objectives were adopted for combating poverty and social exclusion, which must be set out in a coordinated and integrated way, in a multidimensional approach, in the national action plans that the Member States have undertaken to draw up by 1 June.
As we all know, the common objectives that must be set out in the national action plans are: to facilitate participation in employment and access to all resources, rights and services; to prevent risks of exclusion; to work on behalf of the most vulnerable members of society; to rally all the parties involved.
Furthermore, at the European Council of December this year, at the end of the Belgian Presidency, we are to adopt common indicators for poverty and social exclusion in order to be able to compare the results expected by the Member States from implementing national action plans on social inclusion.
Given this context, it is particularly important that we adopt and implement the Community action programme as urgently as possible to encourage cooperation between Member States in the fight against exclusion.
We can see that the Council common position of 12 February 2001 fully or partially incorporates 25 of the 47 amendments adopted by Parliament on 16 November last year, whereas the Commission had accepted 31.
There are also issues of commitology, specifically concerning the Committee, including the Commission' s initial proposal, an assessment of the potential effects of macro-economic policies on poverty and social exclusion and the funding of innovative projects.
I must also make a reference to some small technical amendments that were introduced, after the services of the President of the sitting pointed out the need for them, to improve the legal quality and the visibility of the text adopted by the Committee on Employment and, at the same time, to enable us to bring our text into line with other texts adopted by Parliament, such as the minor technical amendments to Amendments Nos 10 and 2, and the new Amendment No 18.
Lastly, Mr President, I should like to thank all those who have contributed to producing this report and to express my hope that the programme will be adopted as soon as possible.
Mr President, the programme to combat social exclusion is extremely important if we are to achieve the objectives set in Lisbon.
We also call for the European Parliament, the social partners and other agencies in the civil society to be given an opportunity to help prepare the annual conference on social exclusion.
I am also very glad that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has put forward these amendments.
I believe that since we all agree how important this programme is, we can agree as soon as possible to start implementing it.
The common position that we have been examining incorporates 25 of these amendments.
With regard to the amendments which are now under consideration, the Commission can accept six of them in full or in part.
The fight against poverty and social exclusion in each Member State is a national effort and should be placed in the context of promoting national action plans underpinned by Community-level objectives and policy-oriented cooperation.
Amendment No 5, in which the European Parliament is proposing to be involved in the agreement of targets, is not in line with the decisions of the European Councils of Lisbon and Nice.
The Commission is assisted by a management committee for horizontal issues concerning implementation, and by an advisory committee when dealing with individual funding decisions.
Amendments Nos 8 and 12 refer to the role of the European Parliament in the open method of coordination in the social exclusion field.
I am ready to explore with you all the appropriate means of making sure that the European Parliament can play its full role within this framework in this context.
For example, I have already accepted the setting up of a round table, which will bring together the relevant actors.
Amendments Nos 7 and 13 propose to open funding under the programme to innovative projects with a European added value in combating social exclusion.
As I have already stressed, the aim of the programme is to encourage close national policy cooperation and mutual learning, and not to fund actions on the ground.
Moreover, innovative projects on the ground can be funded by the European Social Fund and by the new EQUAL initiative.
My next comment relates to your proposal in Amendment No 14 to name the actors to be consulted in the preparation of the annual Round Table Conference.
I feel that such a list risks being more restrictive, incomplete and less flexible than the admittedly more general term "all the actors concerned".
According to the Lisbon and Nice Councils, there is a role for Parliament and cooperation between Parliament and the Commission, but nothing more than that - if you mean the commitology issue.
Of course, we can find other ways of cooperation.
Of course, the European Parliament has a very important role to play in the joint employment report, which will evaluate all the programmes.
As far as the budget is concerned, I insist on the original proposal of EUR 70m.
We have to be realistic about what the Council will accept and how this programme can be implemented with the human resources at our disposal.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon.
The Commission communication on the future development of social protection, pursuant to the mandate granted by the Lisbon European Council, has provided us with the opportunity of doing so.
I have no wish to appear boastful but it does seem to me that in the Committee on Employment we have revived a broad consensus across all groups in this House.
Clearly, this has proved possible because instead of each group seeking to impose every last detail of its own plan on this issue, we have sought consensus on its most important aspects.
I should also like to state, in this initial overview, that I am firmly convinced this is a problem which demands a broad debate and social and political consensus.
The social and political consequences of modernising the European social model are such that the matter cannot be entrusted to those who only appreciate the financial perspective and neglect the social dimension of the problem.
Today the employment rate for women ranges from 38 to 71 percent in Europe.
Better equality can only be achieved through a change in fundamental attitudes and in partnership between men and women.
A more even division of responsibility for the home and family could lay the foundation for more equality in the workplace and a labour market of equal opportunities and equal pay for equal work.
Mr President, for years the European Parliament has been arguing for Community initiatives on pensions and consequently we are pleased with the principles agreed in the Council and the work prepared by the Commission.
On the one hand, there are a series of common challenges, the ageing of the population and the dearth of younger people or the relation between younger and older people, the changing degree of dependence or the ratio of active to inactive people, etc., limited budgetary resources, technical potential in health care, and so on.
On the other hand, there are number of cross-border complications: the mobility of individuals or the option of working in another Member State and drawing a pension, the mobility of capital or the option of saving in another Member State and drawing a pension, the supplementary pension funds, which unlike the compulsory pension schemes appeal to people in various Member States and even in other countries.
The report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs indicates current thinking in the European Parliament and also in the European People' s Party on the convergence of pension systems.
It is not for the European Union to prescribe to Member States how pensions should be organised and financed.
I hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that our recommendation, on which we shall vote tomorrow, can prove an inspiration to the Gothenburg Summit and particularly will move the Council to involve the European Parliament in a more structural way in future in the discussion on the open coordination method on pensions.
For that matter I am also grateful to the Swedish Presidency for the work that already been carried out in this field.
I hope with all my heart that Gothenburg will be able to give a clear mandate to the Belgian Presidency to formulate common social goals in the context of European cooperation on pensions.
We believe that in the discussion we must never lose sight of the essential component, namely modernisation of pension systems so that we can guarantee today' s and future generations of pensioners a reasonable pension and a participation in social life.
Naturally, Mr President, I could also continue the discussion on the necessary raising of the pensionable age, but I shall not do so.
I hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that Gothenburg will be able to translate these principles into common objectives.
I believe and hope that the broader agenda will promote grassroots support for the reforms of the pensions system.
Pensions based on savings must be an important part of pensions systems in the future.
Mr President, seeing the great care taken by the Ecofin Council to anticipate the long-term impact that funding pensions has on public finances makes one wish that equivalent care could be demonstrated with regard to sustainability, in order to prevent the deplorable long-term effects, for example, of the lack of fiscal harmonisation or of investments in the nuclear industry.
In this context, he recommends taking account of the rate of economic dependence and not only of demographic changes.
The report also emphasises the invaluable role of guaranteed pension systems in combating the insecurity and social exclusion of the elderly, particularly women and workers who have had long periods of atypical work and who should be guaranteed a sufficient level of income to lead a decent life.
This is why our group recommends that we adopt this report, without undermining its current balance.
Mr President, I think there are many good points in the Commission' s report, and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a job well done.
Much has been said about solidarity and security.
In my home country, Sweden, we have already started to adapt to this type of change, and a considerable part of our future pension system will be linked to a supplementary pension based on what happens on the financial markets.
Our group has tabled an amendment to tomorrow' s vote, in which we ask that the effects of the new system are at least assessed and the impact on solidarity on society studied.
However, in my country and other Scandinavian countries, where we already have a relatively high retirement age of 65 - 67, there is currently talk of raising the age threshold to 70.
It could be said that this is a problem for the future, but when talking about pensions we are talking about the future.
Almost all public pension schemes, in fact, are still run completely or partly on a pay-as-you-go basis, and without a gradual changeover to a fully funded system, accompanied by harmonious taxation systems and effective family policies, there would be serious social repercussions.
In the meantime, in fact, the only path open is to increase the contributor base, while noting that the current rise in the employment rate seems rather insecure.
Mr President, this is a very good report.
It has received widespread approbation in the committee and I hope that when it is voted on tomorrow it will receive similarly widespread support throughout the House.
Today's youngsters will need a pension in the future.
Mr President, the insurance issue divides political opinion in all the Member States and yet, interestingly, it unites the general public.
The decisive step for the future of social protection in Europe was taken at the Lisbon Council and enshrined in the Treaty of Nice.
Capitalisation must have clearly-defined borders and must be part of the solution, not part of the problem.
I should like to start by congratulating Mr Cercas, who worked very closely with the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Women's Rights, resulting in the impressive consensus in today's debate.
The question of pensions is a key political, economic and social question which every government has to address.
Some reforms are under way, others are being discussed and others were completed a mere year or two ago.
This reform is social and economic in nature.
Of course, under the Treaty, insurance system reforms and policy are national responsibilities.
But do not forget that we are also required, that it is a specific objective of the Treaty to safeguard a high level of social protection and sustainable, non-inflationary economic growth.
With cooperation between the Member States, the reforms will no doubt be more efficient in all the countries.
This study will analyse all the problems Member State by Member State and will table proposals on basic principles for sustainable systems.
We are preparing a Commission communication, which will be presented before the summer, in which we try to approach the question of the open coordination on pensions in a more analytical manner.
I must say that this resolution by the European Parliament, assuming that it is approved tomorrow as it stands today, will provide strong support for this coordinated effort to reform pensions in the European Union.
I think that this new chapter which is being opened at European level, the chapter of collaboration on pensions, will allow for new forms of cooperation between the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
Honourable Members, I think that the fact that we have opened up this chapter and given a European dimension to the question of pensions will give the governments in all the Member States the support and backing they need in order to bring about sustainable reform, taking account of the economic and, more importantly, the social dimension.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon.
Question Time (Council) The next item is Questions to the Commission (B5-0169/2001).
Question No 1 by (H-0323/01): Subject: Common organisation of the market in the sugar sector On 30 June the current sugar scheme will either have to be extended or changed.
Despite strong criticism of the current scheme by the Court of Auditors and the negative effects on consumers and third-world producers, the Council appears very unwilling to make changes to the sugar scheme as proposed by the Commission.
As this House is aware, Parliament made its declaration on this matter on 13 March 2001.
I would also point out that the Commission has stated that it may approve an extension of the current organisation of the sugar markets beyond 1 July 2003 on condition that all the other parts of its reform proposal are approved by the Council.
The Council will continue addressing the issue at its meeting in May and will look at all contributions, including those presented in the question which has just been put to the Council.
I really think that the policy we are pursuing with regard to the developing countries is and continues to be hypocritical.
The resolution was adopted by the European Council in Luxembourg on 13 December 1997.
Question No 3 by (H-0329/01): Subject: Western Sahara The UN has decided to extend the presence of MINURSO in Western Sahara by two months in spite of the fact that the settlement plan signed between Morocco and the Polisario Front is not yet fully applicable.
The British press has also recently revealed that Morocco benefited from trade agreements with the UK, thus enabling it to acquire more arms and renew its military capability: Mirage fighters, and spare parts which may already have permitted the manufacture of 56 field guns.
The Code of Conduct to which the honourable Member refers was drawn up on 8 June 1998 and is based on common criteria for conventional weapons transfers.
This annual review is presented in an annual report in accordance with Operative Provision No 8.
The general political stance of the Council with regard to the conflict in Western Sahara is to fully support the United Nations and the UN Secretary General' s personal envoy James Baker in their work on finding a solution to the conflict.
It is clear that every solution must be acceptable to all parties and based on complete respect for fundamental democratic principles and human rights.
In this respect, at the end of last year the EU submitted a proposal to the parties concerned for a number of humanitarian and trust-building measures.
The EU is maintaining close contact with James Baker and is looking into how best to support the UN' s initiatives.
I would also like to emphasise that the EU is the largest provider of humanitarian aid to the Western Sahara refugees, giving aid of EUR 20 million over the next three years.
This move has created quite a stir in that country, even though the decision is not retroactive and British MPs cannot take action on this matter of arms sales to the Western Sahara.
Although the situation in this 25-year-old conflict is currently deadlocked, largely as a result of Morocco blocking the validation of the electoral lists established by MINURSO (United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara), there is a risk of armed hostilities flaring up overnight.
Given this background, why does the European Union not officially recognise the Polisario Front as a negotiating partner in this conflict, something that the United Nations did 25 years ago?
I believe that we all currently feel great frustration over the lack of progress.
He outlined the need to reach an agreement acceptable to all.
I repeat that I believe it would be most unfortunate if the EU did not wholeheartedly support the collective, international efforts to solve this difficult conflict.
Therefore, the Council' s stance ought to be well known.
I would refer the honourable Member to the reply to his oral question H-27/2001 of 14 February 2001.
Question No 5 by (H-0335/01): Subject: Visa requirement for Colombian citizens entering the EU A sizeable group of Colombian intellectuals, headed by the Nobel Prize wining novelist, Gabriel Garcá Márquez, have expressed their anger at the Council's decision to demand entrance visas for Colombian citizens entering the EU.
The Council adopted the ensuing regulation with a qualified majority on 15 March, and it entered into force on 10 April, i.e.
The system as it is set up was devised with full consideration for openness and transparency, as Member States should inform the other Member States and the Commission of what measures they are taking in accordance with this regulation.
The Commission's proposal and Parliament's report on the marketing of material for the vegetative propagation of the vine create greater legal certainty for the economic partners concerned in these areas which are so important for wine-growing in the EU.
However, the Swedish Presidency aims to reach agreement on the Council supporting and adopting the new legislation before the end of the Swedish Presidency, i.e.
This part is also very important to economic operators and economic partners in the EU.
Question No 7 by (H-0340/01): Subject: Swedish exemption from rules restricting public access to EU documents A brochure entitled 'The EU Agreement' published in 1994 by the Foreign Ministry's department of trade ahead of the Swedish referendum on EU membership stated that 'the principle of public access to official documents remains intact and is non-negotiable'.
The EU has now adopted new rules, a Regulation on the basis of Article 355, which means that there is a more secure legal basis.
We have been living the whole time with what is known as the loyalty principle, as described in Article 10 of the EC Treaty.
I want to emphasise that the consultation procedure being introduced through Article 5 into the new Act is only advisory.
It is perhaps even more relevant in a Swedish Parliament than in this illustrious European Parliament.
I think the risk of self-censorship is very slight.
Thanks in large part to this Parliament, the EU' s institutions will therefore acquire much better and clearer rules governing transparency and accessibility.
A considerable number of the priorities and objectives in the accession partnership have to do precisely with human rights.
The Commission has given notice that another in the series of reports on Turkey and the other applicant States will be published in November of this year.
I would also point out that the next opportunity for discussion is precisely the forthcoming meeting of the Association Council with Turkey on 26 June 2001.
Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, these questions may not be raised because they have already been dealt with in the statement by the Council and the Commission.
The centre must have a constitution and structure which will enable it to respond flexibly to the demands of the European Union and its Member States and to carry out its tasks in close cooperation with existing institutions within the Community at national and international levels.
The recently established satellite centre, which is to be located in Torrejón de Ardoz in Spain, will begin its activities on 1 January 2002.
The Council scarcely needs to remind you that the European Community and its Member States have played, and continue to play, a very active role in the international negotiations on climate change.
It certainly does not need to be repeated that the Council sticks by both its policy on climate change and these commitments.
The European Council called upon all the negotiating partners to contribute constructively to reaching an agreement on the more specific conditions for implementing the Kyoto Protocol and facilitating a successful result.
Further bilateral negotiations on the same theme will, of course, take place before the second round of the Sixth Conference of the Parties in Bonn this summer.
The EU' s direct strategy, therefore, involves securing sufficient support for the continued success of the Kyoto process, in spite of the United States' s current position.
Through a number of high-level representatives, including the Swedish Minister for the Environment, Mr Larsson, and the Commissioner for the Environment, Mrs Wallström, the European Union has also lost no time in making its attitude clear to the new administration in Washington.
The EU emphasises that the climate issue is an important part of the transatlantic relationship and calls upon the United States to make a constructive contribution to this process.
Thank you, Mr President-in-Office.
The President of the Commission and the President of the European Council will then have the opportunity to emphasise directly to the US President the degree of importance we attach to this issue.
Question No 13 by (H-0353/01): Subject: Remembrance of the Holocaust Following up the Swedish Prime Minister Göran Persson's initiative in arranging the well-received Stockholm International Forum on the Holocaust in January 2000, Parliament adopted a written declaration on 7 July 2000 on the remembrance of the Holocaust.
Those Member States which are involved in the international working party to promote remembrance, education and research in connection with the Holocaust have followed the recommendations of the committee of government representatives and representatives of voluntary organisations, to the effect that annual days of Holocaust remembrance should be established on a unilateral and national basis.
The Council would emphasise that what history, including the Holocaust, can teach us is that it is necessary here and now actively to combat racism and xenophobia in all its forms.
It may also be noted that, on 28 May, the Council and representatives of Member State governments will adopt a declaration concerning the fight against racism and xenophobia on the Internet.
As part of the further efforts being made to disseminate knowledge concerning the Holocaust so that it will be possible, for example, to draw conclusions about the ways in which contemporary intolerance is to be combated, an international conference was held in January of this year in Stockholm on the very subject of the fight against intolerance.
I would say a special thank-you to Mr Sacrédeus himself for his work on the important position adopted by Parliament in July of last year on this subject.
The European Parliament' s decision following the written declaration in remembrance of the Holocaust - a direct follow-up to Prime Minister Persson' s initiative in arranging a conference in Stockholm on this subject in January 2000 - indicates that we should like to see the Member States establish national days of remembrance or, better still, a European Day of Remembrance.
That applies, unfortunately, not only to the Holocaust which we have just been talking about but also to other events which there will be a desire to remember and use as a point of departure in the fight against intolerance and xenophobia.
It might perhaps be better to refrain from recommending a specific day, for example 27 January, as a European day of remembrance.
For example, there is Crystal Night, which is important to remember in many countries, and we have the days around the end of the war in 1945, which can also be important days to remember.
In the light of scientific opinions from the ICES, recommending that lowest possible catches be adhered to and that a recovery plan be implemented for the stock in question, the Council has laid down the Total Allowable Catch for hake at 22 623 tonnes, compared with 42 090 tonnes during 2000.
The Commission had proposed a TAC of only 11 000 tonnes for 2001.
Measures for 2002 must be taken in the light of the current discussion concerning a recovery plan for hake.
The procedure for appointing the chairman of the European Union' s Military Committee does not require the European Parliament' s approval.
Thank you for your answer.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions No 16 and 17 will be taken together.
Special emphasis is to be placed on giving the female section of the population access to education, including technical education, higher education and vocational education; and - within the framework of social cooperation - priority is to be given, through education and the media, to promoting women' s role in the process of economic and social development, concurrently with Algerian policy on the issue.
Concluding an Association Agreement will facilitate and institutionalise the political dialogue with Algeria, including on issues affecting human rights.
Through the Swedish Foreign Minister, the Presidency addressed the issue at the meeting for political dialogue between the European Union and Algeria which took place in Algeria on 24 April.
The European Union has also expressed its concern along the same lines at the annual meeting with the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva.
Within the framework of MEDA' s technical and financial aid to Algeria, the EU supports a project for modernising the police force.
As an example, I can assure you that, with this general wording as a basis, the Swedish Foreign Minister, who is a woman, made clear references to precisely this need to draw attention to the position of women in Algeria.
The Agreement will give us a framework which will make it possible to address all the problems related to human rights.
I want to ask him: Does the Council intend to approve this Association Agreement if the appalling human rights abuses continue in Algeria?
It is all very well to have human rights agreements signed, but the reality is that no matter what efforts have been made in Algeria over the years by the Council and by the European Union, the situation, like in Turkey, has got worse instead of better.
I want to ask him: Is it the intention of the Council to agree to the final statement on the association agreement when it arises in October or November?
The Council believes that this is a more effective instrument than just letting things happen.
The Regulation came into force on 5 May 2001.
These assurances related not only to the Member States' interests, but also to the consequences of the proposal for those ACP states that are not among the least developed countries, as well as to the desire to guarantee that the least developed countries themselves, rather than third parties, benefit from the new system.
In the meantime, annual 20 per cent reductions in duty would be introduced as from January 2002.
In the light of the problems of infrastructure that would-be banana exporters in the least developed countries at present encounter, it is difficult at this stage to assess with certainty what direct effect the Regulation will have on the banana market.
As has been mentioned previously, adjustments have been made to the Regulation so that account might be taken of the misgivings experienced in this regard in the European Union and the banana-producing ACP countries that do not belong to the group of least developed countries.
Moreover, the Commission has undertaken to monitor the application of the Regulation in order to discover and deal with all the difficulties as soon as possible.
The Commission will investigate to what extent the least developed countries are benefiting from the Regulation, whether the available tools are sufficient for tackling - where justified - more serious disturbances in Community markets and when it is a question of bringing the adjustment mechanisms into play, especially for rice, sugar and bananas.
In the light of this investigation, the Commission will present a report in 2005 and table the necessary proposals.
In connection with the Cotonou Agreement, the EU acknowledged the overwhelming economic importance of exports to the EU for banana suppliers in the ACP countries and agreed, if need be, to take measures to guarantee the continued profitability of banana-exporting companies in the ACP countries and continued opportunities to sell their bananas in the EU market.
Finally, I would remind you of the Council Regulation establishing, from 1 January 1999, a special aid scheme for ACP states that are traditional banana suppliers.
This system offers technical and financial aid to help ACP suppliers adjust to new market conditions and increase their competitiveness, at the same time as encouraging environmentally more friendly production and marketing methods.
The financial and technical aid supplied in accordance with this Regulation amounted to almost EUR 45 million in 2000.
The honourable Member also indicates other possible measures that multinational companies can take on the basis of these changed rules.
I am convinced that, with its usual diligence and promptness, the Commission will see to it that this new scheme, whose main aim is to benefit the least developed countries, is not abused.
Questions Nos 19 and 20 lapse because the Middle East has already been referred to in the statement made this morning by the Commission and the Council.
As the time allocated to Question Time to the Council has now elapsed, Questions Nos 23 to 44 will receive written replies.
Mr President, it is now two years since the COM in olive oil was last reviewed.
Public intervention purchases were done away with in the 1998 reform, against Parliament' s wishes.
In its replies to the Court of Auditors, the Commission stated that it would make provision for closer checks in this revision.
The European Parliament' s Committee on Agriculture therefore proposes a ban on marketing blends of olive oil and other fats, in line with measures already in place in most of the producer countries.
On 25 October last, for instance, the Commission rejected some thirty of our amendments to the proposal for the COM in fruit and vegetables on the grounds that they would be included in a later report.
Furthermore, our document includes a number of amendments aimed at making the Commission' s proposal more flexible and precise.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to begin by offering my sincere congratulations to the European Court of Auditors, whose report on olive oil has made another major contribution to the debate on the effectiveness of the system of common organisation of the markets under which the common agricultural policy still operates.
The study to which I just referred counted 120 plant species, 70 species of vertebrates and 160 species of invertebrates in traditional olive groves in the province of Cordoba in Andalusia.
Ancient olive groves and trees play a particularly important role in preserving many species of birds.
It is estimated that modern olive groves in Andalusia have caused erosion of 80 tonnes per hectare, whereas more than 50 tonnes of erosion per hectare is considered to be an extremely serious level.
The level of fraud and irregularities uncovered by this Court of Auditors report on the olive oil sector is far too high.
It is true that there is every indication that the only reason for more fraud being discovered in olive oil than in milk is that there are tighter controls, not because there is any greater propensity to commit fraud in that sector.
Thirdly, following revision of the COM in 1998 and the end of intervention aid buying, aid to private storage became the only way of regulating market prices.
Producers are not frightened by this prospect as long as it is possible to sell on the market at a fair price.
The latter is a problem that cannot be left just to the Member States, but one that the whole Union must face by understanding that it is responsible.
The amendments tabled and approved are a step in this direction.
With this resolution we are going to intervene in Regulation 1638/98.
The Regulation expires on 31 October 2001.
We ask for an explicit undertaking by the Commission because while we are discussing and legally intervening in Regulation 1638 we do not want the other Regulation to go off in a different direction which does not allow for the possibility of its being legally amended.
Following the last 'reform' of the common organisation of the market in the olive oil sector and now that the transitional period has come to an end for the Commission to change the aid system, from aid for production to aid per tree, the Commission has presented its strategy for olive oil quality and is extending the present aid system for a further two years.
Unfortunately the answers have never been reassuring, and sometimes they have been quite alarming.
The observations made in the explanatory statement in the Peres report are all true, highlighting once again the demand for a guaranteed income for farmers and respect for the space and special character of the Mediterranean environment, the strong demand to prevent aid per tree by supporting aid based on production, and the valuing of the quality and genuineness of the product to protect the consumer.
The European principle must in fact become that of identifying the origin of the oil with the place where the olives are produced and no longer with the place where they are crushed, as has debatably been the case until now.
In this context the blending of olive oil with other vegetable oils, in the absence of labelling that will identify each component in the blend, damages the image of the producer, the consumer and the Codex Alimentarius.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first I should like to thank the rapporteurs on behalf of the Commission for their excellent work.
Strictly speaking, these two areas are totally separate because the special report by the Court of Auditors addresses the measures and aid applied over a three-year transitional period before the Council decision in 1998, whereas the Commission proposal relates to measures to be taken from November 2001 onwards.
The Commission stated in the middle of last year, during its examination of the Court of Auditor's report, that improving the control system would, of course, be an important issue in the forthcoming reform of the common organisation of the market.
After highly constructive talks with the Member States, these improvements were set out in Commission Regulation (EC) No 648/2000.
They were expressed at every Council meeting between 1995 and 1998.
The Commission checked the data in question and clarified the details with the Member States on several occasions.
The Commission acknowledges Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 9 but cannot formally accept them because they anticipate the decision on final reform, which the Commission wants to leave open at the moment.
Similarly, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 27 extending production refunds to products not in international competition with cheap olive oil.
Amendments Nos 7, 11 and 14 call for greater involvement of the Commission and additional research.
Finally, as far as organisations of market operators are concerned, the Commission agrees to Amendment No 12 with its more general wording of the objectives, Amendment No 25 proposing that table olives be included in current provisions for quality improvement programmes and Amendment No 30 subject to legal examination and with the words "for recognised interbranch organisations" .
However, there seems to be little point at present in restricting measures which could help to improve the quality and hence sales of olive oil.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The common foreign and security policy of the European Union is one of the core elements in the further development of this European Union.
The supplementary budget, in terms of numbers, totals EUR 9.846 million.
It makes provision for 51 new posts in this area and for the further technical resources needed in order to refurbish the buildings.
I should like to say quite clearly at this point that we shall of course check the Council budget in general and this new title in particular very closely during the course of the 2002 budgetary procedure.
The chairman of the Committee on Budgets will cast our vote on this motion tomorrow.
We believe that the duplication of decision-making bodies and the development of a military staff separate from NATO will inevitably exacerbate policy differences between allies, to the detriment of the transatlantic relationship and the long-term security of our people.
The European Union should be focusing its efforts on economic, administrative and humanitarian contributions to crisis management, to complement the military capabilities which should properly be a NATO responsibility.
Parliament is being asked to approve a draft supplementary and amending budget of nearly EUR 10 million to fund staff and equipment for the separate European Union military bodies.
Tonight we are discussing an unnecessary EUR 10 million.
I wonder how long it will be before we are discussing a defence budget of EUR 10 billion or more.
The development of an autonomous EU military capability, separate from NATO, has come about as a direct result of initiatives by the British Labour Government in 1998.
Europe's share of the common foreign and security policy is still very small.
Mr President, first I would like to thank Mr Ferber for an excellent report.
With the supplementary and amending budget the Council intends to set up three new directorates within its General Secretariat to implement the common European security and defence policy.
These directorates are: 1.
There would be a total of 140 employees involved in this new organisation, of which 51 would be in newly created posts.
The structure of the organisation menacingly indicates that the same functions are to be discharged in the areas of both crisis prevention and civil crisis management in the Commission and the Council.
What is at stake here is the delicate balance of power between Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Commission presentation of the preliminary draft budget for 2002 The next item is the Commission presentation of the preliminary draft budget for 2002.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge to the Commission in drawing up the draft preliminary budget for 2002 was to provide financial cover for next year's long-term obligations, provide financial cover for next year's new and special priorities and cover the financial risks to the budget as the result of the BSE crisis and the foot-and-mouth crisis all within the framework of financial planning, i.e.
while exercising budgetary prudence.
As far as commitment appropriations are concerned, we still have a EUR 500 million margin in comparison with the contributions set out in the financial perspectives and, as far as payment appropriations are concerned, we are EUR 2.5 billion below the ceiling.
The Commission proposal makes provision for an additional EUR 1.145 billion to deal with the BSE crisis in the organisation of the market in beef and veal for 2002.
This undercuts the ceilings decided in Berlin and in the Interinstitutional Agreement, leaving a margin of EUR 68 million.
Under the Commission proposal, administrative expenditure will account for 1.5% of next year's overall budget.
The Commission will be asking the budgetary authority to approve the second tranche of the additional posts needed for Commission work out of the 317 posts for the Commission.
I would stress here once again that the overall margin in heading 5 is tiny.
Taking the proposals already made by the other institutions, the Council and Parliament alike, I have to concede that this will probably mean that the ceiling on heading 5 will be exceeded.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we acknowledge the Commission's preliminary draft budget and, as always, shall check very closely to ensure that sufficient account has been taken of the priorities set in advance by the European Parliament.
The truth is we have commitments of EUR 100 billion, payments of 97.8 billion, payments well below the ceiling or 1.06% of GNP or, to put it another way, EUR 265 per capita of the population, of which EUR 121 per capita is for agricultural for agricultural produce, policy and the countryside.
Commissioner Schreyer has just quoted a few figures here.
I would add that the ad hoc procedure has proven to be an increasingly constructive procedure between the institutions over recent years.
In foreign policy - which was addressed earlier - the question arises of how democratic control and discussion of operational expenditure under the common foreign and security policy will take place in future.
I would state my view once again, however, that we consider a reserve always to be non-compulsory expenditure, as we want to be able to intervene in decisions on its use.
The broad economic guidelines give 15 September as the date for this document to be presented.
In external action (category 4), it is still difficult to guarantee the stability of the European Union' s action.
In the field of administration (category 5), to what extent are the appropriations proposed sufficient, when added together, to cope with the reform of the Commission, enlargement, the launch of new policies, an increase in the Council' s budget of around 10%, and the proposals of other institutions?
We must therefore watch out for clouds on the horizon, and I am referring specifically to the fact that the Committee on Budgets today voted on its position on the financial regulation.
These stated that Parliament will not hesitate to reconsider its position on such matters in its budgetary decisions.
The Committee on Budgets asks that the most appropriate form for this be included in the three-year plan.
Mr President, enlargement will increase pressure on the margin of the budget.
But you will agree with me that for as long as the Parliament is condemned to being a travelling circus, it is not sensible to force another EUR 210 million down the throat of the European taxpayer.
Our political position against discrimination must be converted here in this House into policy.
The Committee on Budgets therefore asks the Secretary-General for clarification on what measures are necessary to be able to keep the promise of Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The Committee on Budgets examines the financial envelope and its limitations and the Bureau concerns itself with specific content.
Estimates were based on a four-day week in Strasbourg and the decision now taken entails no change in costs.
For example, the Commission intends to work with satellites in applicant countries in the translation area.
I can tell you now that the PPE group will be looking at this issue very closely in the autumn, once we have the actual figures to work with.
However, the reform process embarked upon so far sometimes feels a bit slow.
All of us know that enlargement will have far-reaching effects on all aspects of Parliament's services.
Therefore, Parliament's three-year plan is essential to make enlargement successful.
I strongly oppose the amendments tabled by the PPE-DE Group imposing a deadline before the summer for this report, because if we do not have a considered and well thought-out enlargement plan, it could backfire on us.
Let me make it clear that I strongly believe in linguistic diversity, but we cannot just add on all these additional languages and still try to be an efficient and effective organisation.
I know there is a proposal to purchase this building, and although it makes financial sense here and now in terms of the savings we will make in the immediate future, I am concerned about the long-term suitability of the building: it hardly meets our requirements now, so what is it going to be like six years down the line?
Next year, we must prepare for the fact that in 2004 Parliament will grow by more than a hundred members bringing with them a dozen or so new languages.
The debate is closed.
The change of government in 1998, and then your election as President of the Republic in the first presidential elections to be held in Slovakia using direct suffrage, in May 1999, are events that have had a very positive influence on enhancing relations between us and making them more effective.
The Helsinki European Council of December 1999 took the decision to open the negotiations for accession, which began in March 2000.
Mr President, I shall now ask you to address our Parliament. (Applause) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, only a short while ago I paid my tribute to the memory of Louise Weiss, an exceptional person, initiator of the idea of European unification, journalist and politician who gave the opening address at the first session of the European Parliament in 1979 - ten years before the fall of the Iron Curtain.
It is my deep conviction that, in a not too distant future, it will become one of the official languages of the European Union.
It is therefore natural that we should link the future of Slovakia with Europe.
Europe that is unified and prosperous, peaceful and attractive.
Our common Europe.
The citizens of Slovakia will always bear this in mind.
The accession of the Slovak Republic to the European Union is among the key priorities of our foreign policy.
Slovakia's progression towards the European Union means that the country is returning to the culture and civilisation where it belongs both by its history and its system of values.
We are pleased to note that around 70% of our population of more than five million people support accession to the European Union.
What is even more important is that this percentage includes the supporters of the strongest opposition parties, because these political parties too, currently in opposition, built their political programmes on the integration ambitions of the Slovak Republic.
The right course of Slovakia's security policy whose ultimate goal is membership in the North Atlantic Alliance, through active participation in the European Security and Defence Policy was confirmed by the security strategy document adopted by our legislature.
The fact that this document was adopted with the support of an absolute majority in Parliament, demonstrates that both the ruling coalition and the opposition pursue the same strategic principles when it comes to the future orientation of the Slovak Republic.
Ever since I assumed my presidential office I have been trying to impress not only on the political leaders, but also on all those who are not indifferent to the future of Slovakia, that the direction of the country must not depend on a momentary euphoria or on the fleeting political preferences of those in power.
It would convincingly dispel the doubts with which I am often confronted during by trips abroad in my discussions with the friends and observers of Slovakia who ask: "What changes can be again expected in the foreign policy orientation of Slovakia after the next elections?" As I have said, we are pleased with the public support for the integration ambitions of Slovakia.
However, we cannot ignore the worries or mistrust among citizens of the EU Member States who fear that the enlargement of the Union could have undesirable consequences.
We - in the applicant countries - must thoroughly prepare for membership and, together with the EU members, we should alleviate the doubts concerning enlargement.
The entry of each new country will enrich the common house by its spiritual, cultural and historical heritage.
We want to contribute to the enlargement of the common market but at the same time we want to be a contribution to the economy and thus contribute to greater stability and security for all of Europe.
The European Parliament was the first to respond to the new situation in the Slovak Republic through its Resolution of October 1998, which acknowledged the changes in the style of government of the country and its new orientation after the elections.
I would like to take this opportunity to state how highly I regard the relations between the European Parliament and the Slovak Republic which, especially during the last two years, have gained a new momentum.
The next such meeting is to be held in a few days in Bratislava.
The path of integration is interspersed with exceptionally lively political discussions and, sometimes, disputes.
The year 2000 was the year of the "economy".
We continued implementing the reforms launched by the Slovak Government after its coming to power in 1998 with a view to restoring stability at the macro-economic level.
And here I realise - as confirmed in my direct contacts with the citizens of my country - that economic reforms can have painful consequences for the socially weakest groups of the population.
This too is the reason why in every political or professional discussion on the subject of economic and legal reforms I stand up as an advocate of the reforms, even though I always view them in terms of their benefits for the majority of our citizens.
In February the Slovak Parliament passed the long awaited amendment to the Constitution, compatible with the constitutions of EU Member States.
The amended text explicitly provides that the Slovak Republic may delegate the exercise of some of its powers to the European Union through or on the basis of an international treaty.
The national legal system of the Slovak Republic is based on the principles of democracy and the rule of law.
Through its Constitution and the ratified international instruments on human rights, the state guarantees the enjoyment of rights and freedoms to all citizens without any distinction.
The serious attention given to this problem by the government is expressed through the Government's Strategy for Addressing Roma National Minority Issues and the set of measures for its implementation.
The first experience gained indicates that the level of legal awareness and democratic thinking - even among educated Roma - has been marked by decades of a paternalistic approach by the state to the Roma community whose members find it difficult to exercise their powers.
I have also brought my initiative to the attention of the Presidents of other Visegrad Group countries; we agreed to adopt a common procedure with the President of the Czech Republic.
We make no secret of our ambition to do it together with our neighbours - the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland, our partners in the Visegrad cooperation process.
I attach great historic significance to the creation and functioning of the Visegrad grouping whose aim is to encourage close cohesion of an mutually beneficial cooperation within the central European region as the basis for its future integration into economic, political and security structures.
These common objectives of the V-4 countries contribute to the development of Europe as a whole and to expanding the zone of stability to the entire continent.
Thus, it would not be appropriate to delay the process of enlargement on the ground of what I consider to be unjustified worries about the enlargement bringing the threat of "dilution" of the European Union, or endangering the possibility of the continued political integration.
I am convinced that the Slovak Republic and other candidate countries are no less prepared for further integration than some current members.
But the process must continue and the system must remain open.
National identity plays an important role in the life of individuals, because it is the means for their self-identification and affiliation with a certain group.
The entry of the Slovak Republic to the European Union will be the real completion of sovereignty of our country.
The future of Slovakia lies with the European Union which will become the area of freedom, security and justice.
Let us turn the ideal of common spiritual values and historic experience into the reality of a unified and prosperous Europe, attractive to all citizens of its countries and serving as an example for other regions and continents.
The Slovak Republic declares its willingness to share in this common responsibility.
Thank you for this opportunity of addressing you (Loud and sustained applause) Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank you for your tribute to Louise Weiss, whose name this building bears.
You have reminded us that your country is a part of the living reality of Europe, not only of its historical and geographical reality, but also its cultural reality.
I can tell you that we in the European Parliament have always been convinced of this.
The Treaty of Nice, which was concluded in December of last year, even if people' s appreciation of certain parts of it varied, at least had the merit of opening up the way to enlargement, to the reunification of Europe, which all of us here are delighted to see.
We heard your great determination to pursue difficult economic reforms, your determination to adapt your legislation, your determination to resolve the problem of minorities, which you know is an issue close to the heart of our Parliament, and lastly, your determination to join us as quickly as possible.
You may rest assured, Mr President, that Parliament' s desire is, of course, to see the applicant countries closely involved in these discussions.
