Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 25 October 2001.
On 7 November, José María Lidón Corbi, a judge and professor of law in the Basque region, was murdered in a cowardly attack whilst leaving his home in Getxo.
On my own behalf, and on that of the European Parliament, I immediately sent my deepest condolences to the victim' s family and our best wishes for a speedy recovery to everyone who was injured in this attack.
Yesterday, Algeria was struck by catastrophic weather conditions, which so far have claimed 538 lives and left 316 injured.
Johanne Sutton, Pierre Billaud and Volker Handloik died whilst carrying out their profession, which was also their passion.
There were more than 260 passengers and crew members on board.
Madam President, I would like to give my sincere thanks to you and all the Members, such as Ignacio Salafranca, Jules Maaten and many others.
I think that we should pursue this initiative and I see that this issue is also on the agenda of this session.
The situation in Laos is tragic.
Corruption is endemic in Laos.
I hope that we will have the opportunity to work together in order to change this situation as quickly as possible.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting The Minutes of Thursday 25 October have been distributed.
If I am not mistaken, during voting time on Thursday 25 October, my vote by roll call on the second part of Amendment No 559 on the budget, and more specifically on premiums for tobacco, has been incorrectly recorded.
I voted against the second part, against the commentary, and I am shown in the register as having voted in favour.
Sittings of 12 to 15 November in Strasbourg Regarding Tuesday Madam President, my report on passenger transport by rail, road and inland waterway has been placed on Tuesday' s agenda under item No 16.
That is something Parliament will not be if we debate the Fiori report this week, because it is only today that it has become available in ten languages.
Madam President, I would like to speak in favour of this request because, although, admittedly, only a small majority in the Conference of Presidents decided on Thursday to submit these two reports to a joint debate, it is certainly not straightforward for Parliament to allow the administrative services to take a decision that is political in nature.
Now, though, that the debate with the Council and the Commission on the international situation is to take place on Wednesday afternoon, we take the view that the Caudron and Fiori reports belong together.
Justice and Home Affairs Council is going to meet, as expected, on Friday, yet the representative of the Council at the Conference of Presidents said that the meeting would be taking place on 7 December.
Secondly, Madam President, I think it is a major political mistake to subordinate a legislative report such as the Caudron report to a question that will have ethical repercussions for all - not only for one particular political group - for we need to be working on that which is relevant to us all: the draft legislation.
Mr Barón Crespo, everything is, in fact, perfectly in order, since there were two speakers to move this request.
I therefore believe that, in order to make the work of Parliament more coherent, it would be better to take the vote on the Fiori report at the same time as the Caudron report.
That said, I also agree that if the physical conditions are not appropriate, it is better to postpone the vote than to proceed under the wrong circumstances.
I shall therefore put to the vote the request by the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party to postpone the Fiori report. (Parliament gave its assent) I have received a request from the Group of the Party of European Socialists to bring forward to this week the debate on criminal sanctions and Community law, which is currently scheduled for Wednesday 28 November.
This evening the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs will adopt a text, drafted in cooperation with the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which we believe is a strong basis for a Parliament resolution on this matter.
If it is not possible to have a debate in plenary with the Council, we request authorisation to submit this text to the plenary in the form of a draft recommendation for a vote on Thursday, pursuant to Article 39 of the Treaty and Rule 94 of our Rules of Procedure.
Madam President, if it is at all possible, I would like to add an oral amendment: 'on the effects of hurricane Michelle on Nicaragua, Cuba and Honduras' , which is where it has caused the most damage.
Madam President, I have no more information than you on this series of arrests.
No-one has informed me about it but I am sure that will happen in the course of the evening and I will then tell Mr Tannock.
If I may, Madam President, I would like to briefly give some information about another subject, since the request to add this item to the topical and urgent debate was rejected, that of the case of Leïla Zana.
The Bureau of my group recently held a meeting in Ankara.
A few weeks ago some EU Member States in the United Nations debated the common EU position on the Sahara.
Curiously, France distanced herself from the Belgian presidency' s proposal and demanded that the line be adopted as set out in the response that the Council of the European Union gave me personally on 10 October.
There was even talk of a diplomatic incident, of a crisis between Spain and France, and between Spain and Morocco.
And secondly, I would like to express my concern at the lack of transparency shown by the Council to this Parliament, for I have had no official answer to my question.
Madam President, you will know that the City of Strasbourg is twinned with the City of Leicester, my home city.
On behalf of colleagues in this House who I know are very concerned about these issues, I ask that you raise this subject with the Commission and the Member States and ask whether action can be taken across the European Union to stamp out this appalling abuse of young people from a very deprived part of the world.
Statements by the US leadership that the objective of the attack is not Bin Laden but to break up Al-Qaeda, even though no one knows where it is, and that it is now the turn of other countries are particularly worrying and reveal the real purpose of the USA, proving that the attack on 11 September is merely being used as a pretext for pushing ahead with previous plans to gain control of this extremely important area and use up stocks of weapons.
I must say that I, myself, am very surprised.
I certainly recall what the Finnish Members said on this subject and I thought that the problem had been resolved long ago.
In any case, you can rely on me to remind the Quaestors of this, although I cannot see any of the Quaestors in the Chamber at the moment, because I believe that this is a very important issue and that we really must ensure that this is working as soon as possible.
Madam President, I expected something more!
Unfortunately, it confirms our reading that the appalling attack on 11 September is being used by the imperialist powers not just to settle international accounts but also to defeat the enemy within, by eroding individual and collective rights.
Mrs Lynne, of course I understand what you are saying, but in any case, and you are well aware of this, it is not because we are bringing voting time forward by half an hour that your report cannot be dealt with in the morning.
The assessment was made in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but also in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
First of all, what matters is the right of all citizens in the European Union, in other words, including those of third countries, to access EP documents.
That right may have been in place for European citizens, but this was not the case for citizens from third countries registered in the EU.
It should include all parliamentary documents, including the preparatory documents, such as working documents by rapporteurs or by parliamentary delegations.
The only difference is that our Rules of Procedure did not make it compulsory before, and now this obligation has to be stipulated in the Rules of Procedure.
Our proposal is to leave those meetings in camera, but to verify the Minutes against Articles 4 and 9 of the Regulation.
The final point concerns the conciliation between the Commission, the Council and Parliament in the event of disputes.
At the final vote, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs backed these amendments by a large majority.
Four additional amendments have been tabled, including one by my group and three by the Greens.
Before I speak further, I should like the services to rule whether Amendment No 17 from the Green Group is admissible, because it seeks to rewrite the regulation.
Now the definition of sensitive documents is contained in the regulation, Article 9, reference to Article 4(1)(a).
It is absolutely right that we adopt changes to our Rules of Procedure so that we not only conform to the regulation on access to documents but can also begin to be held accountable by the citizens whom we purport to represent.
Therefore, now that Commissioner Barnier is here, it is important for me to refer to some of my concerns about the entry into force of this regulation on 3 December 2001.
The Commission, therefore, has the responsibility to present formal proposals to repeal or amend secondary legislation which is not coherent with the principles and limits defined in Article 18(3) of the regulation.
Similarly, on the wider definition of institutions and the bodies and agencies, the Commission is mandated by Recital 8 and by the joint statement to review the rules of agencies and, where necessary to propose amendments as soon as possible.
Mr President, the report we are debating this afternoon in Parliament is important, because it relates to something we have always defended in this House: the principle of transparency, which means citizens' right to access documents and also the principles of openness and proximity to these very citizens.
For this reason, we are debating Article 255 of the Treaty as reformulated in Amsterdam, and also an important article of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Article 42.
In doing so, we will be including a fundamental principle in the interests of the aforementioned transparency and openness into the set of rules that regulates our relations.
I trust that the result of the vote will be sufficient, that is to say, more than 314 votes, for these proposals to be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure of this House.
On behalf of the European People' s Party, I would like to once again congratulate the two rapporteurs for the great work they have done.
I would like the Greens to come up with a substantially clearer explanation of Amendment No 15 than has been produced to date.
We, as elected politicians, are responsible to our electorate for ensuring that all proceedings are as open as possible.
Parliaments must be transparent.
Members of the executive can, more often than not, obtain what they need from their political friends in the Commission or the Council' s delegations, but such documents are not, and will not be, available to all MEPs or to the public.
Openness makes little sense, of course, if nobody is interested in the work we do.
Even if press reports on Europe are sometimes incomplete, the interested citizen can nonetheless look straight in on us with the help of the Internet.
They already deserve our congratulations on their work on the original legislation, Council and Parliament Regulation 1049/2001, where their work was crucial in securing that positive result.
It is arguable that the European Union is in some ways already more transparent than some of our Member States.
It certainly does not reach the highest standards set by some of our Member States, but we are moving in the right direction, although of course it is still not perfect.
Looking at the package of amendments to our Rules of Procedure tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I can say on behalf of my group that we will support the thrust of what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has put forward.
We shall listen to the arguments that are being put forward in this debate and then review our position again, but our group is leaning towards accepting Amendment No 14 from the PPE-DE Group, the first half of Amendment No 15 from the Verts/ALE Group, and possibly Amendment No 16 from the Verts/ALE Group.
We are opposed to the second half of Amendment No 15 from the Verts/ALE Group, which is entirely unworkable and would raise a number of practical problems if it were adopted.
A number of European citizens have petitioned this Parliament about problems with Lloyds of London.
The Commission believes that this regulation represents a very significant step forwards in achieving greater transparency and accountability on the part of the institutions towards Europe' s citizens.
The efforts made by Parliament to ensure that the regulation was adopted within the time limits imposed by the Treaty, a point that I also highlighted during a previous speech, clearly indicates the importance that your institution also attaches to transparency in general, and to the public' s right of access to documents, in particular.
I would also like to tell you that the Commission is finalising a draft decision on the implementation of the regulation of 30 May.
The Commission will also be in a position, therefore, to implement this regulation within the required time limits, and this will guarantee that the public can fully exercise its right to access these documents.
In these circumstances, it is natural for the Commission to pay particular attention to the approach that the European Parliament used to amend its Rules of Procedure.
This approach will be a very useful source of inspiration for the Commission' s own internal rules, as I think it is important that the institutions follow a similar approach in applying these important rules.
As far as the Commission is concerned, we believe that there is no obvious incompatibility between these two documents, since Annex III of the framework agreement regulates the forwarding of confidential documents to Parliament which cannot, in any case, be forwarded to the public, due to the exceptions laid down by the regulation of 30 May.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would, however, like to confirm the Commission' s very clear intention to faithfully apply all the provisions contained in this framework agreement.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, until this current parliamentary term, the standing committees, the interparliamentary delegations and the delegations of the joint parliamentary committees of this House were set up using a uniform procedure: Plenary, at the proposal of the Conference of Presidents, appointed Members, and these, at the inaugural meeting, elected the bureau for each of these bodies.
Proceeding in this fashion, at the start of this fifth parliamentary term, it was noticed that there was a contradiction in Rule 170.
In order to resolve this contradiction, the Conference of Presidents asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to look into the matter.
The most important thing is that during this period there was time to be able to reflect upon the following: in the first instance, we have to remove the current contradiction in the Rules of Procedure; this is absolutely crucial if we want to prevent the same doubts we had in July 1999 arising next January.
At the same time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed in its report to return to a uniform procedure with regard to the standing committees, the interparliamentary delegations and the delegations of joint parliamentary committees.
It seems that this time used in 'sleeping the sleep of the just' with regard to this report has been of use for the parliamentary groups to consider that, although it is absolutely necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure to remove this contradiction in Rule 170, doubts still remain about the need to once again standardise the constitutional procedures of the three bodies in this Parliament that I mentioned at the start of my speech.
And, whilst we are talking about consensus, it is clear that your rapporteur understands the opinion of the political groups and, therefore, considers that tomorrow we should proceed to remove this contradiction in Rule 170 and leave the procedure for the setting up of interparliamentary delegations and the delegations of joint parliamentary committees as it stands at present.
In political terms, of course, it is a matter of some significance whether the chairpersons of the joint parliamentary committees and of the interparliamentary delegations are appointed en bloc by this, albeit rather thinned-out, House or whether every single candidate in every single joint parliamentary committee or every single interparliamentary delegation has to be elected or appointed as an individual.
It is, of course, clear that the Rules of Procedure have to provide for a process ensuring political balance in the composition of the delegations and the joint parliamentary committees.
It is also evident, on the other hand, that these important decisions about personnel cannot be completely removed from the plenary.
We must, then, be clear in our own minds that the joint committees and interparliamentary delegations perform duties of a distinctly sensitive nature with respect to our partner countries, and also that the appointment of certain persons to chair these committees can become a political issue, may be seen as discourteous or even taken to be provocative.
Mr President, this proposed set of amendments to our Rules of Procedure that has been so ably drafted by our rapporteur is intended to resolve a contradiction.
Some of these arguments have been put with great clarity in this short debate.
I concur with our rapporteur that it is somewhat of a scandal that this report has been sat on for over a year since it was adopted in the committee and is only coming now, almost at the last minute, to plenary to be settled.
Thank you, Mr Corbett.
The debate is closed.
In spite of this, or rather, especially because of this, I want to focus on the need for urgent reform of Europol, in order to allow democratic and judicial control.
The Nassauer report sent a strong political signal to the Council.
The refusal to bind up this wound inflicted on European democracy, if we can talk about the system regulating the Union' s institutions today in these terms, implies that it would be impossible to make any tangible progress in creating an area which is genuinely an area of security, of justice and of freedom but which we feel must be first and foremost an area of democracy.
The plan to increase Europol' s powers to deal with the critical situation with regard to terrorism, the scandal involving a Europol senior official and the reluctance of the national police forces to transmit their data to Europol, as well as the creation of Parlopol - a group of national and European Members of Parliament upholding the importance of increasing democratic control over Europol and its decisions within the area of justice, freedom and security - have already led the Council to reflect at least on the need to introduce some reforms.
To enable the European Parliament to express its concerns and requests to the Council and the Commission at a time when they are preparing to take decisions enlarging Europol' s powers and jurisdiction, we feel that, in addition to the amendments on the two Acts proposed by Belgium and Sweden, other amendments are necessary to resolve this issue.
In our opinion, the amendments tabled may perform the function of clarifying and improving the initiatives under consideration and send the Council and the Member States a clear political message criticising the current situation and proposing several fundamental guidelines for reform.
I am very proud to be the rapporteur in an extremely innovative area, which has taken on great importance following the appalling events of 11 September.
Joint investigation teams will allow two or more countries to join together for the purposes of investigating terrorism, human trafficking, drug trafficking and indeed other serious organised crime.
This is an important venture which we must all support.
As a minister responsible in the United Kingdom for setting up our own national criminal intelligence service a few years ago, I am very confident that the make-up of these organisations in Member States is already well addressed.
There has been a case of this nature in the UK, and there has also been a recent case in Italy.
Finally, a lot of sensitive information may emerge as a result of this process.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was in 1999, at Tampere, that, for the first time in the history of European integration, the Heads of State and Government of the 15 Member States of the Union put justice-related issues at the top of their political agenda and gave the commitment that an area of freedom, security and justice would be established within a maximum of five years.
It took the tragedy of 11 September to, at last, shake up a large number of our leaders and substantial impetus has been lent to the adoption of certain necessary measures.
The first stipulates that Europol' s mandate may be extended to all serious forms of organised crime already listed in the Annex to the Convention in accordance with the priorities established by the Council upon the proposal of Europol' s management board.
The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms' amendment on the subject moves that this decision should be a qualified majority decision adopted by the Council after it has consulted the European Parliament and obtained the opinion of Eurojust, a body which is particularly experienced in this field.
We therefore support the first Turco report, as tabled in committee.
Moreover, Europol does indeed work with police and court information but is not involved in any way in the internal security service in practice.
On the one hand, we are relying too heavily on the benevolence, or lack thereof, of the Member States, while on the other hand, there appears to be an evident lack of confidence in democracy, notably parliamentary supervision of this highly important area of policy.
Internal security services, in particular, have an important role to play here.
Mr President, the European Union, in close collaboration with the United States, has used the terrorist attack on 11 September as a reason to speed up the witch hunt on anyone who stands up to their imperialist plans and preferences.
Mr President, it has never been so appropriate as now, in the wake of the events of 11 September, to establish joint investigation teams to improve cooperation between all the national investigation teams, particularly with a view to enhancing and speeding up that necessary exchange of fresh information between all the information services of the Member States of the European Union.
We have all had the opportunity, although, sadly, only since the New York and Washington carnage, to reconstruct the series of preparations for terrorist attacks made on our own European territory over the years by people and organisations linked to Osama Bin Laden: the many, apparently unimportant signs actually linked by a single thread and whose connection, sadly, we did not realise until it was too late, until after 11 September, when thousands of innocent people had already died.
However, it is worth noting that, in addition to helping us respond to the critical terrorist situation, joint investigation teams would also play a useful general role in helping to fight the many phenomena linked to large-scale organised crime at international level such as the illegal trafficking of arms and drugs and the trafficking and exploitation of human beings.
Thank you, Mr Cappato.
The implications for our countries and our codes of criminal procedure are huge, for, as we know, procedures vary greatly between the 15 Member States in terms of the relationship between the police and the law and the government.
We know that President Prodi is in favour, yes, of course we do, but we also know that we are sacrificing with a single blow any balance of powers to the urgent, critical need for effectiveness in the fight against crime.
Mr President, the extension of Europol' s mandate is not some new issue that has arisen after 11 September.
Mr President, the two government initiatives on Europol that we are examining today, the first on the definition of areas of action, the second on the rules on the transmission of personal data, provide the European Parliament with the opportunity to raise a genuine question, which is how to organise democratic control over Europol.
This is a very important question, since police and judicial cooperation and, in particular, the management of analysis files that are kept by Europol, are very closely related to civil liberties.
The relevant parliamentary committee is proposing to completely change this system, even though it has only been in operation since 1999, and would like to entrust control of Europol solely to Community procedures, in other words, to the European Parliament.
We do not consider the European Parliament to be the appropriate institution to undertake the democratic monitoring of sovereign police operations in the Member States, which are carried out by the national services and have implications for the very territory of the Member States.
Better still, the Intergovernmental Conference, which is due to meet in 2004 and which, in fact, must deal with the role of national parliaments within the European structure, should propose to develop this type of interparliamentary cooperation and turn this into a new pillar of the European Union.
The Commission welcomes the fact that the European Parliament supports the draft framework decision on joint investigation teams that Belgium, Spain, France and the United Kingdom have proposed.
The Commission also welcomes the fact that Parliament has given a positive response to the proposal to extend Europol' s mandate and to allow the transmission of personal data to third countries and other organisations.
At the same time, I acknowledge the importance of coordination between Europol and Eurojust and of the role Eurojust should play in relation to the judicial supervision of Europol.
We therefore welcome the fact that the European Parliament has emphasised the need for the situations of organised crime in each Member State to be reflected when priorities are established in the fight against organised crime at European level.
With regard to the amendments proposed in Parliament' s report, the Commission might propose that the public version of this annual report be annexed to the report that Europol also submits annually to the European Parliament.
Hence my doubts as to whether there is a genuine need for the proposed amendment to Article 7 of the Council Act.
Mr President, Commissioner, curiously, two European States that have never been members of the European Union, Norway and Iceland, were the first to establish, on a regional basis, an area for the free movement of persons.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will first thank the rapporteur, who has analysed this very technical report with great expertise and proposed a range of editorial amendments that we can all support.
Thus, the Council of Ministers of Internal Affairs and of Justice, on 20 September, had already set in motion a simpler procedure for handing over criminals and for the mutual recognition of court judgments.
The main objectives of police and judicial cooperation on criminal matters in the European Union are the fight against transnational organised crime and the approximation of legal and statutory provisions.
The events of 11 September clearly demonstrate the need to conduct the fight against terrorism not only by military means, but also with judicial instruments.
The events of 11 September only reinforced the urgency and the need for such a decision.
This is why the Justice and Home Affairs Council took the decision, on 20 September, as part of its objective of combating terrorism, to replace the extradition process within the Union with a simple process of handing over the perpetrators of such crimes, which will render obsolete all laws on extradition currently in force, as has already been stated, and will involve the removal and replacement of the two conventions on extradition through the mutual recognition of court sentences and through simply handing over the perpetrator of the crime, thereby creating the single European area for extradition, the need for which we also wish to highlight.
Completely replacing the rules on extradition within the European Union with the mechanism of the European search and arrest warrant will have an effect on the Schengen acquis and must also be reflected in the workings of the Schengen Convention.
The debate is closed.
Now, however, I feel that Parliament is, at last, ready to take a decision on this point, since the position of the Parliamentary Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights leaving the Member States the freedom to choose and the position of the Commission, compulsory European opt-in, have both been tempered, so to speak, and have become more reconciled in that the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights has taken into consideration the concerns relating to voice mail, in particular, and, on the other hand, the position advocating the introduction opting in, making an initial binding choice, at European level has taken into consideration the need to communicate with existing clients of a particular company or business.
However, in view of the fact that six years have passed since the adoption of the General Data Protection Directive and many of the Member States have still not ratified it, that four years have passed since the adoption of the directive to be amended by this proposal for a directive and that many of the Member States have not even applied the ' 97 directive, it is reasonable to predict, given these time frames, that this legislation will also take who knows, maybe three, four or five years to enter into force.
If, in three, four or five years' time, consumers and users really feel the need to be protected against unsolicited commercial e-mails, the market and technology will make the systems already available today even more simple.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already voted once on this report.
We therefore want to let those states that at present have an opt-out system retain it, keep an eye on developments and come to a new decision after two years.
At the same time, the Cappato proposal takes three steps to protect the consumer.
Secondly, the consumer can, simply and without charge, indicate his wish not to receive e-mail advertising from specific companies.
Therefore, deciding to amend Article 12 of the directive would really appear not to benefit us in terms of freedom and, quite frankly, I fail to understand how we can give freedom of advertising precedence over individual freedoms.
As far as unsolicited messages, as mentioned in Article 13 of the directive, are concerned, giving the Member States the choice takes away the usefulness of the directive itself in view of the need for harmonisation.
In fact, I feel that, as well as people such as our rapporteur, who is expert at using electronic tools, there are also still many, many citizens like myself who have little aptitude for such tools and are therefore concerned.
Mrs Paciotti, you will continue to get spam!
Rapporteur Cappato suggests leaving the choice of opting in or out to the Member States.
A Member State that has chosen in favour of opting in will experience many difficulties in countering unwanted e-mails, if Member States that have chosen in favour of opting out do permit them.
I therefore propose approving the Cappato report but also improving on it further by voting in favour of Amendment No 44 instead of Amendment No 35.
In 2003 we will have a very good opportunity, in the e-commerce directive, to gather the information and the wisdom obtained from those Member States which have chosen either to opt in or to opt out.
The Commissioner may shake his head and smile, but does he want to have to explain to a government agency or some other agency why he has chosen to opt in?
On the issue of the right of privacy: we all have the right of privacy, but that right cannot be imposed on individuals.
Finally, on spamming, I myself have been spammed.
That has been done by individuals who have opted me in to the lists held by the spammers.
We must encourage people to use the technology and stop being their nannies.
Mr President, tonight British Members from three different political parties and other colleagues are going to be in agreement, which is a rare occurrence.
In other words it is not terribly satisfactory but at least it is better than the original proposal from the Commission, and the amendment by the Socialist Group which I hope will not be supported tomorrow.
As a number of colleagues have said tonight, the world of electronic communications is offering immense benefits to the citizens, whether it is in their own personal access to charities or political parties or in the marketplace.
So we have promised something to our citizens we cannot deliver.
If we adopt this proposal and pass this amendment, we will be walking away from the opportunity to create the right environment so that people can really benefit from the immense power of the new communications world.
I would just like to point out that the Commission cannot support Amendments Nos 16, 25 and 34 that were rejected by Parliament on 6 September and are now resubmitted to the vote.
This House has been discussing the question of opting in or opting out for several years now and the result of the vote on 6 September showed how difficult it still is to find a compromise solution that is acceptable to a broad majority.
However, the flaw in that proposal is that it is based on the assumption that a mobile terminal can only receive SMS messages.
The sender cannot know whether a message will be received on a mobile or fixed terminal because of the convergence.
Banning unsolicited commercial SMS messages while allowing unsolicited electronic messages based on other technologies is therefore not a workable solution.
This paragraph apparently tries to address the problem of cost for users but the solution proposed is not a good one.
European ISPs tell us that the technology of viewing the subject line before downloading a message is not compatible with the majority of systems used in Europe today.
In short, apart from not being compatible with the single market, Amendment No 35 does not meet the need for technology-neutral and future-proof legislation.
Amendment No 44, on the other hand represents a technology-neutral compromise solution and has the merit of being a fully harmonised EU approach to unsolicited commercial e-mail.
In paragraph 2 of this amendment a rather substantial exemption from the opt-in principle is made for e-mail addresses obtained within existing customer relationships.
It estimates that 85% of the 950 million messages sent daily to mobile devices are unsolicited commercial messages to mobile numbers chosen at random.
The debate is closed.
European films only obtain 26% of their income from outside their own countries.
I am convinced that if we can support the producers in this, the situation could change.
Europe should be ambitious in this respect because it is very important to our children' s education that young people can watch these films.
Mr President, I rise to speak in place of Ruth Hieronymi, who actually should have been speaking, but is unfortunately unwell.
The central deficits are in the distribution and marketing of our films and, of course, the industry is chronically undercapitalised.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank Mr Vander Taelen for his sterling report.
Radio and television may devote attention to it, but television in particular could do so in a more structured way by means of a fixed amount, or quota, in other words, of transmission time.
It reminds me of when we arrived in Parliament two and a half years ago.
It is therefore essential and necessary to circulate films.
And I would like to stress two other aspects of this report.
I therefore attach great importance to the issue of heritage.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work.
I would like to focus briefly on two of the many points contained in the motion for a resolution which caught my attention.
Well then, the European Union cannot remain insensitive to this additional urgent need if we genuinely want to preserve the past heritage and guarantee the future of cinema.
Mr President, I, too, would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report.
It follows that European film producers must do more to market their products.
Austria spends over EUR 30 million per annum on promoting films.
In discussing many specific problems, whether to do with nation-states or the subsidy issue, we came up against the same point over and over again, that the distribution system does not work.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Vander Taelen for the excellent work he has done and for his constructive approach to this report.
Europe produces more films than the United States, and these are often of a very high quality, but the market share of European films has never been this low before, it stands at 22%, whereas films from the United States take 73.7% of the European market.
Furthermore, European films secure only 26% of their box office takings from sources outside the country where they were produced.
In order to render the European film industry more competitive, the rapporteur makes very specific proposals which, in my view, are excellent.
Of course, and I agree with him, we must urgently adopt an ambitious multiannual plan to improve the competitiveness of the European film industry and to strengthen the transnational distribution structures for European films.
Without going back over aspects which have already been debated, I would point out here that the rapporteur has provided comprehensive proof, as I said before, that both a cultural problem and an organisational problem exist.
As we have said before and will continue to say, there needs to be a substantial cultural element in the integration of Europe, and films play a major, fundamental role in both informing people about cultural diversities and providing authenticity, allowing the message of cinema to be disseminated in all the States.
This initiative shows that the European Parliament is fully aware of the strategic importance, both economic and cultural, of the European film industry, but also of what hampers the circulation of films and other audiovisual works in the internal market and candidate countries, as several Members have pointed out.
The European Commission, which fully supports the report' s objectives, welcomes its adoption.
The Commission is also pleased that our two institutions share the same viewpoint regarding the need to pursue an ambitious European policy in order to make the European audiovisual industry more competitive.
As you are more than aware, the recent Commission communication on certain legal aspects related to cinematographic and other audiovisual works that my colleague, Viviane Reding, presented to the Council on 5 November, tackles the issues of the circulation of E-cinema, the tax regime applied to the industry, the protection of European audiovisual heritage, the classification of works and other problems affecting the circulation of films and other audiovisual works.
The implementation of the measures set out in this communication, combined with the application of the MEDIA Plus programme (2001-2005) and the joint initiative undertaken by the Commission and the European Investment Bank, i2i Audiovisual, should help to significantly improve the situation of European films.
If I may, Mr President, I would like to come back to some points of the motion for a resolution which has been submitted to you.
Item 5 of the motion for a resolution calls on the Commission, in implementing MEDIA Plus, to draw attention to the Europa Cinemas network of cinemas, and item 6 calls on the Commission to support the 'Shooting Stars' initiative of the organisation European Film Promotion.
These projects are undeniably of value and have received Community support for several years as part of the MEDIA programme.
However, it is important to point out that the actions under the MEDIA programme are subject to calls for proposals and to the principle of fair competition and project selection according to a transparent procedure.
Furthermore, at the beginning of 2002, the Commission will undertake a public consultation on this subject.
The results of the various studies and of the public consultation will provide a significant contribution to the communication on the review of the directive and any proposals for amendments, which the Commission plans to submit to the Council and to the European Parliament towards the end of 2002.
Furthermore, nine candidate countries were asked to take part in the MEDIA Plus programme.
The aim is for these countries to participate from the beginning of 2002.
Item 26 of the motion for a resolution calls on the Commission to perform a feasibility study of the possibility of 'interconnecting' the existing automatic support funds of the Member States and regions.
It must be reiterated that an assessment was already carried out in 1998 in Birmingham, by the 'Club des Producteurs Européens' .
Council Decision No 2000/821/EC establishing the MEDIA Plus programme already, in its 'Promotion' section, lays down support for promotional activities in favour of European creation, in other words, approximately 8% of the budget.
The debate is closed.
The fact that Parliament has decided to present an initiative proposal to tighten these directives now sends a strong political signal to the Council and the Commission.
This report also reflects Parliament' s great displeasure at the implementation of existing legislation by the Member States and the Commission' s lack of opportunity to notify Member States.
We propose to limit the duration of the transport of animals for slaughter and productive livestock to four hours, or 250 km, with a possible extension to eight hours, provided that the carrier is licensed and the animals can lie down and have a supply of fresh water.
As far as I am concerned, the report could also have been referred to as the Maat-Busk-Kindermann report.
In the EU, literally millions of animals have been killed and destroyed in the last four years as a result of an explosive spreading of animal diseases including foot-and-mouth and swine fever.
Although the report does not go far enough in relation to the eight hours, paragraph 1 is extremely important.
The maximum journey time of eight hours for slaughter and for further fattening should be welcomed because animals were being transported long distances over long periods in completely unacceptable conditions.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to start by expressing my thanks to Mr Maat.
No, in the Maat report we are discussing the well-being of animals on their way to be slaughtered.
The proposal to end the payment of export refunds for live animals is one which I find quite crucial and also particularly deserving of support.
The abolition of export refunds for animals for slaughter, contained in this resolution, was decided on by Parliament in the course of the 2002 Budget procedure and has long been demanded by Social Democrats.
I should also like to thank the Commission which, without hiding anything, has clearly described how the Member States have implemented or, more to the point, failed at all to implement, the many decisions taken in 1991 and 1995.
Mr President, I welcome this report and would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work.
However, I would first of all like to highlight my concern that the current debate has consistently failed to acknowledge the failure of many Member States to implement existing Community legislation in this area.
The latest Commission report, together with numerous mission reports, has highlighted that there is a serious disregard of animal welfare in some countries.
The Commission must show a much greater willingness to initiate infringement proceedings against Member States which fail to enforce this directive properly.
Mr President, the report on the protection of animals during transport has evoked great public interest.
The report before us opts, in this sense, for cooperation rather than confrontation between agriculture and animal protection.
The evasion of European transport and slaughter rules by having animals slaughtered outside the Union under conditions which would be banned in Europe does injustice to the European farmers.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a report on a Commission report on the implementation of the directive concerning the protection of animals during transport.
Animals must be transported in conditions that are reasonably good; legislation should dictate standards to ensure that this is the case, and the authorities should verify compliance with these standards.
And secondly, transportation conditions should also be the same for all animals that are transported, in cases where animals are being taken to the abattoir as in cases where animals are transported to be reared close to, or far away from, their place of birth, or in order to take part in a competition.
For example, the classical swine fever we had in Spain in 1997 was caused by piglets travelling from Holland.
It is disgraceful that those of us in a civilised and cultivated part of the world, calling itself Europe, should treat animals in the way we do.
I want first of all to deal with Paragraph 14.
Paragraph 20 is about ending the payment of export refunds in respect of live animals.
Mr President, Mr Maat's report is an important tool for thinking globally and acting more locally in agricultural and environmental policy.
The same should apply to sanctions imposed on Member States.
Mr President, Ireland is committed to working with all Member States and international bodies to achieve higher standards in animal welfare.
Regulation 615/98 links all payments of export refunds to compliance with strict animal welfare standards during transport, including full clinical examination of every animal.
If Europe does not fulfil the requirements of third countries, they will get their supplies from far further afield, with little or no controls and regulation from an animal welfare point of view since there are still no internationally agreed standards on transport.
We have to have the highest possible standards not just in the interest of the animals but also of the producers, who will get a far better price for healthy unstressed animals.
It is true that we must continue to review our standards of protection of animals during transport and each Member State must be willing to police and enforce the law.
We all know that there are already several directives on this in the European Union, and legislation to transpose it in the Member States.
I therefore welcome the proposals to step up the supervisory procedures considerably and to tighten the sanctions.
Mr President, it is a rare occurrence but, this time, I am forced to speak on behalf of my nation.
Of even more concern to us is the fact that the proposal stipulates that animals for further fattening, which is a completely natural stage of the livestock rearing process, should be subject to the more restrictive measures laid down for animals for slaughter instead of the less restrictive measures laid down for breeding animals, even though the further fattening stage is a natural continuation of the livestock rearing process lasting a few months.
The subject matter of this report is animal welfare and animal transport in particular.
We all know that this is a very sensitive issue.
The report under discussion here today shares most of the objectives of the Commission.
Let me nonetheless indicate some general impressions on some of the key issues raised in your report.
The Commission has already presented proposals for improvements in these areas or will be presenting them shortly.
If we wish to retain their support for improved animal welfare then we must also respect their interests.
You stress the lack of enforcement of the current legislation in Member States.
Finally, in this respect, I would call on the House to assist the Commission' s efforts in encouraging Member States to take animal welfare more seriously.
This will provide you with the opportunity to shape the hard legislation on animal welfare.
The debate is closed.
