I will not go back over the detail of the report and will merely refer to two sessions, that in Bamako in April&#160;2005 and that in Edinburgh in November&#160;2005, without forgetting the next session, which will be held in Vienna in June&#160;2006.
It does, in fact, seem extremely logical to maintain and to perpetuate this system, which was adopted two years ago.
I should also like to highlight the very solid contribution of our colleagues from the ACP countries, and we must congratulate them on that.
I should also like to point out that an increasing number of horizontal votes between the ACP countries and the EU representation have been held.
Furthermore, it appears that our colleagues from the ACP countries are less involved in what we might call an ‘intellectual’ capacity.
The budget for the tenth EDF now amounts to EUR&#160;22.682&#160;billion.
The EDF surplus also poses a problem.
If we fulfil our political commitments in 2010 and if we succeed in devoting 0.56% of our GDP to development aid, then the European Union will grant an additional EUR&#160;50&#160;billion per year to this budget, even though it had made the political commitment to devote only half of that amount, or EUR&#160;25&#160;billion, to Africa.
It is quite clear that if this policy is complied with, the additional aid that is available will actually correspond to one annual EDF budget.
Furthermore, I wonder about the proportion of the aid to developing countries that will be managed by the European Union and that will be in the region of 20%.
That is what would make it possible to ensure coordination between the member countries and the European Union.
The EDF can become that coordination lever, and the Joint Parliamentary Assembly can become an element of specific control, in the knowledge that all of the least developed countries in the world are members of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
It is indeed becoming an increasingly strong parliamentary pillar of ACP-EU cooperation.
The establishment of the standing committees and the joint drafting of reports by the ACP and the EU members of the Assembly have led to more frequent and more intense contacts between parliamentarians.
The Assembly has become a mature forum, where issues of concern to ACP and EU parliamentarians are addressed in an open debate where broad consensus on many development issues is emerging and where votes by separate houses have become a rare exception.
The resolution calls on the Assembly to organise meetings between EU and ACP Members of Parliament at regional or sub-regional level to strengthen regional integration and foster cooperation between national parliaments.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Commission shares your view on the Assembly’s role as a model for cooperation.
My colleague Mr Michel has participated in all the Assemblies held since he took office.
The primary object of the Parliamentary Assembly is to reinforce the parliamentary dimension of the Cotonou Agreement.
The many things that we do together are intended to help our counterparts gain influence in their own countries and gain the same self-confidence that we have gained over the years in our dealings with our governments and the executive.
It is good that the Commissioner for Agriculture is present with us today, since she knows the figures inside out and knows what we in Europe are doing to lessen the impact of reform of the market organisation for sugar and how little, in comparison with that, is available for the countries concerned.
It is apparent from that that our reform directly impacts on these countries, two of which – Guyana and Jamaica – I have myself visited.
We call on the Commission to set aside an appropriate proportion of European development funding for the political education of parliamentarians and other persons in positions of leadership, enabling the development in these countries of the sort of political culture that will strengthen responsible governance in the long term.
The JPA is a permanent forum for political dialogue that tends to become an instrument of prevention, of conflict resolution and of support for the democratic process.
The role of the JPA is therefore very precious in the context of the Cotonou Agreements.
This aspect is above all the responsibility of the European Union, which must attach political priority to this partnership with the ACP countries, by respecting its commitments in the negotiations under way on the sum of the tenth EDF and by finally refraining from taking back with the one hand what it gives with the other, as illustrated by the sugar reform.
What Africa needs in particular is respect for the rule of law, respect for contract law and the protection of private property.
If the EU really wants to help these countries, it should not help consolidate corrupt systems through more aid.
What it should do is embrace free trade and lower the trade barriers and tariffs – in fact remove trade barriers and tariffs that are holding back the economic development of these countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Cotonou Agreement of 2000 had the good intention of giving the ACP countries help from the EU in getting out of the gutter.
The Joint Parliamentary Assembly, and its Political Affairs Committee in particular, must make it a priority to bring real democracy to these countries.
In some of them, women’s rights count for nothing and the mutilation of women – despite what has already been done to counteract it – is still a daily occurrence.
It follows, then, that, in addition to the principle of ‘aid for trade’, we also have to consider the idea of ‘aid for democracy’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I think that it is with satisfaction that we can look back on the past year and on the Bamako and Edinburgh agreements reached by the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
At the end of the day, though, what matters in development cooperation in the ACP countries is the concept of ownership, and it is that that we will take as the starting point for our work.
It is still the countries themselves that bear primary responsibility for their own development.
Today, I want to ask that particular attention be given to two projects that have been running over the past year, and will continue next year, namely the economic partnership agreements and the reform of the sugar market, both of which will have a great deal of impact on both Europe and the ACP countries.
This House treats cooperation between the ACP countries and the EU as being of particular importance, since it involves a Joint Parliamentary Assembly consisting of 77 members of this House and 77 members of the ACP countries’ parliaments.
What is needed for peace and political and economic stability in these countries is not just financial investment on our part, but also investment in contacts devoted to deliberation and dialogue, in order to get to know one another better and understand one another better.
Anyone looking at our Joint Parliamentary Assembly over a number of years, as I certainly have for around 12&#160;years, has seen a very heartening increase in confidence, maturity and, indeed, in engaging on issues related to trade and to political dialogue, to which we attach great importance.
Many of us are concerned about the situation of the overseas countries and territories in relation to the EDF.
The Commissioner must be aware that the figures we now have on the budget line, going from EUR&#160;130&#160;million up to EUR&#160;170 million by 2013, are far short of what the Commissioner and others had promised, which was EUR&#160;190 million.
They are going to get EUR&#160;1.1 billion at the end of 2013 and it is back-loaded.
The issue is not just about employment in sugar, as the Commissioner must know – because we made enough fuss about it in Europe – but also about the other developments that depend on and grow around that source of employment.
Our committees are working well and I think that we can fairly say that the Joint Parliamentary Assembly can only grow in strength in future years.
Firstly I am grateful to the Bureau of the European Parliament for its decision to authorise the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly to be held in Edinburgh.
It was also excellent that representatives of the ACP and the EU were able to participate in the informal council of ministers for development cooperation organised by the UK Presidency in October.
The ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly has an important role in implementing the political dialogue provided for by Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement.
I am also happy that standing committees have been set up.
They have made for better upstream cooperation between the European Parliament and the ACP members.
I realised how viable the system was when I myself produced a report. &#160;&#160; – I should first like to commend Mr Cornillet for his report, and the joint chairman of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly for her hard work and commitment in the work of the Assembly.
The Women’s Forum established a bridge between countries of origin and destination.
In the final conclusions, the participants called on the Joint Parliamentary Assembly to draw up a report to identify the measures needed to combat this scourge in all ACP countries, including European, African and Caribbean countries.
That is why I say to the Commissioner that the ACP is not just for our good friend Mr Michel: it is for all the Commissioners in the College.
In the same way, we learned much from seeing the desertification of the Niger; or the implementation of the vaccine fund on the ground in Mali, where we could see the people who are most affected actually benefiting from the work being done.
Many speakers have mentioned the women’s forum that takes place at every meeting of the Joint Assembly, and I would like to do likewise, for the in-depth discussion of the political and economic problems specific to women in the ACP countries is very helpful, not only to the women’s forum itself, but also to the Assembly’s ensuing plenary debates.
The resolutions adopted by this Assembly sometimes even launch debates that go beyond that forum.
The next Joint Parliamentary Assembly also promises to be interesting.
It will deal with such important issues as the role of regional integration in the promotion of peace and security, the problematic issue of energy in the ACP countries and the social and environmental aspects of fisheries in developing countries.
What is more important is that we do not forget that the impact of the price drop agreed within the European Union will not have an effect on the ACP countries until 2008.
They have another two years to try to adapt their production with the money available from the European Union.
You know that considerable funds will be available from 2007 until 2013.
In the European Union we have shown that we also have a responsibility towards those countries that will be affected by internal legislation concerning the need – that I am quite sure everybody feels – to adapt our agricultural policy to a more global trade. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly has done some great work in deepening our ties with ACP countries and affords them a crucial link to our deliberations, particularly as we come to finally address our trade policies, which all too often hinder rather than help development.
Scotland has been at the forefront of calls for change in 2005, with the Make Poverty History march in Edinburgh, the G8 summit in Gleneagles in the summer, and of course we were delighted to host the ACP-EU meeting in Edinburgh.
Quantitatively speaking, Europe is the world’s greatest donor, but there has been a growing global awareness over recent years of the truth that the way aid is targeted is at least as important as the quantity of it.
The effectiveness of aid is dependent to a large degree on good governance, free from corruption, for not only is it the case that aid money is raked off, but corruption is also a hindrance to development and has a disproportionate effect on the poorest members of society.
My proposals therefore deal with what we – the European Union, the Commission and the Member States – can do in practical terms, preferably together with the international community as a whole.
My principal proposal is for the drawing up of a blacklist of corrupt regimes, which should receive no further loans from banks or other financial institutions.
Such groups, belonging to organised civil society, are engaged in the public monitoring of the government’s income and expenditure in terms of the development goals.
Such are some of the proposals I have put forward in my report.
The Commission is particularly keen on ensuring that the aid it manages serves the objectives of combating and ultimately eradicating poverty, and in that respect the power management of financial resources is crucial.
Hence the decision to make governance in general a horizontal and central theme in the programming of the tenth EDF, because combating corruption can only be successful when embedded in a broader agenda of capacity building.
In this context we share the view of the rapporteur, Mr&#160;van den Berg, on the importance and scale of the problem.
In our assistance programmes we have various measures to support good governance, such as reforms of the legal system, support for Supreme Audit Institutions, assistance for civil society, and support for national parliaments, which was the subject of a debate at the recent ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
We already support civil society watchdogs, for instance Transparency International chapters in some countries.
Its big advantage is that it directly addresses a major source of corruption in many countries, namely the weak management of public finances.
Our budget support goes only to those countries which are clearly committed to reforming their public finance system and, by strengthening sensitive areas like public procurement, it makes an important contribution to the fight against corruption.
You are aware of the special report by the Court of Auditors on public finance management in the framework of budget support in ACP countries, which supports the approach adopted by the Commission.
One note of caution, however: budget support is not earmarked for a specific sector, but specific sectoral reform measures and targets can establish the conditions for the funds which are, of course, paid into the general budget.
My last point concerns our colleagues in the field.
While concern mounts over a deficiency in funding for MDGs, we must ensure that the aid is being provided to developing countries and is being allocated efficiently.
As Mr van den Berg said, corruption is widespread, affecting every sector and bureaucracy.
However, we are increasing budget support and I am pleased to hear what the Commissioner has said about strengthening institutions to eliminate corruption through budget support and the reform of the public sector.
Often these reforms are the sole responsibility of a few select civil servants.
If we deregulate as much as possible in the developing countries, we will have a chance to address this problem.
I congratulate Mr&#160;van&#160;den&#160;Berg on an excellent report and I am very pleased to hear what the Commissioner has said. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I should first like to commend Mr&#160;van&#160;den&#160;Berg on his excellent, timely and important report.
Pursuant to Articles 96 and 97 of the revised Cotonou Agreement, serious cases of corruption can lead to political consultations.
This is the only way in which the citizens of developing countries will be able to expose corrupt governments and to free themselves from them.
Shadow and parallel budgets are in themselves a form of corruption, directly affecting internal, regional and even global security.
The lack of transparency in this area is a clear example of the link between corruption, bankrupt countries and security.
The G8 countries, for example, are responsible for more than 80% of world arms exports.
It is clear that the fight against corruption is absolutely crucial, in terms not only of the effectiveness of European aid, but also of its credibility.
How can we really convince our fellow citizens or the Member States to give more if corruption remains endemic?
The rapporteur does a good job of highlighting all of the questions posed by this new budgetary aid system with regard to the fight against corruption, as well as the heightened problem, in the present context, resulting from the increased pressure put on raw materials and, in particular, on scarce oil supplies.
Transparency, in actual fact, is a crucial element if one is to have a precise and clear idea of the budgets that are used.
In this field, we must be far more enthusiastic in our support of a number of initiatives, such as ‘Publish What You Pay’ or the initiative of the extractive industries, which nevertheless have the disadvantage of being based solely on voluntary participation.
The budgetisation of the revenue from oil and mining is also a crucial aspect of budgetary transparency but, as far as the European Union is concerned, this must be a requirement so that budgetary aid cannot be granted to a government that does not clearly publish the profits that it makes from the oil, mining or forestry industries.
The governments of these countries are also helped by towns, regions or States, at all levels, and we lack a database that would indicate what is really paid by a given country to a given State, region or town.
To conclude, I therefore believe that we need to put matters in order, as has been said, and that corruption cases, too, form part of the current issues facing the European Union.
The role of parliaments and civil society is crucial, and more transparent procedures and the circulation of information are vital.
Mr&#160;Matsakis gave some very precise examples; this in no way means easing the pressure on the actual corruption of many leaders and governments of developing countries and, at times, of NGOs too.
The fight against corruption in recipient countries must also be extended to corrupting companies belonging to industrialised countries, and the fight against ‘corrupt corruptors’ should be conducted as part of an effective and transparent partnership.
Untying aid is another crucial aspect of the relationship between corruption and aid effectiveness.
Nevertheless, I believe that it is crucial – as, moreover, it is claimed in the tripartite document on the European consensus on development policy – that the governments of the Member States and the European institutions try to coordinate themselves and harmonise their own policies, including within international financial institutions, with a view to becoming not only the leading donors in the world, but also the most responsible of donors and the most incisive when it comes to drafting policies that put an end to the spiralling external debt in the South of the world, thus helping to eradicate poverty and, if I may be so bold, to eliminate a little injustice, too, and perhaps even wars. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, international solidarity and, through it, the ability to help people in developing countries are very close to my heart.
The EU’s aid policy is in itself very poor.
The EU must take a firm stance against governments that are exercising blatantly corrupt methods of governance.
The EU is the world’s largest donor of aid.
Education and training needs to be improved and the number of women in higher level education needs to be increased in order to afford them the opportunity to become more involved in politics.
I call on the financial institutions that hold these stolen funds to freeze them or confiscate them.
Take the case of Kenya and the Anglo Leasing scandal.
The same kind of legislation could be introduced in Europe with regard to corruption so that anybody in Europe involved in corruption or bribing officials in Africa or any other Third World country could and should be charged under legislation in their home country.
Let us prioritise the giving of aid to NGO projects that are not only capable of producing tangible results, but which can be required to guarantee them and also to apply quality standards &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I join with the previous speakers in expressing appreciation of Mr van den Berg and his outstanding report, which makes clear in how many and varied ways conditions can play their part in making our aid less effective while corrupt structures flourish.
It is often our banks that offer dictators accounts where they can stash their money, and it is often European businesses that collude with structures in their countries to the eventual detriment of the people who live there.
I would like to see all these people – and their spouses too – barred for good from getting visas to come to Europe on shopping trips, spending the money they stole from their own people. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the effectiveness of aid and the fight against corruption runs like a scarlet thread through many debates, but particularly through those we have had since yesterday evening.
The OECD’s Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials is an important means of addressing the connections between corruption on our own countries and corruption in the developing world.
I would like to say something else about direct budgetary support.
There is an increasing tendency in the European Union to opt for direct budgetary support rather than projects, and, basically understandable though that is, there are very many doubts about this, which have indeed been aired today.
I want to explicitly highlight Article 15 of the UN Convention against Corruption, according to which the Member States of the European Union must make bribery a criminal offence.
The legal framework is not, however, the only factor.
It is, then, civil society organisations, and religious leaders in particular, who need to be challenged as to their role in promoting good governance and in fighting corruption.
In any case, both countries and aid organisations that give aid must be able to have confidence that their money is being used efficiently and for its intended purpose.
In order to understand the problem and to find an effective solution, it is imperative to take decisive action, such as creating a black list which would prevent banks providing funding, in the form of loans, to corrupt governments or their representatives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last night the word ‘corruption’ was mentioned several times in our debate on World Health Day 2006.
Whatever we do, we must not penalise those who most need our aid, money and assistance.
Let us build it into our programmes, but let us ensure that we keep up our aid work, that it gets to the right people and that they do not suffer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in his opening remarks Mr van den Berg – and indeed others – picked up on the huge amounts of money we are talking about.
The European Parliament has well-established links with parliaments in many of the countries around the world, the countries with which we are concerned.
I was very proud to be part of the European Parliament’s delegation to Afghanistan to support their first parliamentary elections.
The more we can do to help women and parliaments to develop, the better. &#160;&#160; Corruption is the by-product of a weak system of government, but also arises from the absence of definite values.
It is therefore of great practical importance that a society should possess an ethical framework and good practices in order to solve this problem.
The corruption that accompanies the granting of aid is especially drastic because the actual people who are in distress suffer doubly.
It is truly amazing that, often both in the international community and in the European Union, the question of combating corruption has been a taboo.
That is because political expediencies, the Member States' interest in exerting their influence and international customer relations were more important.
However, no&#160;one spoke about what the role of corruption was in that failure.
The European Union, as the largest donor of aid to developing countries, should play a particularly active role in ensuring the transparency of aid programmes funded from the Community budget.
This is why the report drafted by Mr Van den Berg is so important and so timely.
These actions are carried out in poorly governed States, where countervailing powers and capacities at the level of civil society are lacking.
Country strategy papers and national indicative programmes between the European Union and beneficiary countries generally include specific interventions in the fields of rule of law, democratisation, public administration reform, public finance management and reinforcement of civil society.
On support for national parliaments, the Commission sees the strengthening of the national parliaments’ supervisory role as an important means of trying to improve the overall effectiveness and impact of our development effort in these countries.
For instance, through the EDF and the budget line for South Africa, the capacities of national parliaments of some 11 ACP countries have been strengthened to a total amount of EUR&#160;35 million since 2000.
Finally, through its permanent dialogue with the partner governments and the various regions, the Commission encourages the broadest possible participation of institutions at various levels, particularly at parliamentary level.
I have noted the view on the positive influence of the participation of women. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Hours spent discussing better regulation and relations between the Commission and the European Parliament come to nothing if they are disregarded in this House by the Commission and Commission spokespersons.
We sincerely hope that the Commission will consider carefully its next steps, not only from a purely legal point of view, but also in accordance with the spirit of the agreement reached in Conciliation.’ The letter is signed by my colleague Professor&#160;Trakatellis and me.
I was assured personally last night by Commissioner&#160;Verheugen, the Commissioner for Enterprise and Industry and Vice-President of the Commission, that – and I quote him with his permission: ‘If the new regulation enters into force, I will propose to the Commission to withdraw the infringement procedures against Austria and Denmark.’ In good faith, I would request Commissioner Kyprianou, who is in the House today representing the Commission, to respond on behalf of the Commission to the serious concerns that have been generated by the text of Tuesday night’s declaration. &#160;&#160; – As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important matter.
On behalf of the Commission, I would like to reassure the House that the Commission undertakes to evaluate the pending infringement procedures with regard to the use of f-gases in Denmark and Austria, taking into account the spirit in which the final agreement was reached during conciliation.
This vote can therefore take place today. &#160;&#160; As I see that the rapporteur is happy with the statements by Commissioners Verheugen and Kyprianou, we can now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; We now come to the elections in Belarus, or White Russia.
We wish you all the best at home. &#160;&#160; There was an agreement on Tuesday night by all the political groups to change one word in paragraph 8 from ‘integration’ to ‘perspective’, which brings it into line with the ENP Report, for which I was the rapporteur, and with Mr&#160;Brok’s report on enlargement.
We have just adopted resolutions on the elections in Belarus and Ukraine.
The consequence of the current situation is that there is an enormous amount of work to be done by the Member States’ consulates in Switzerland and in Liechtenstein, and costs are incurred by third-country nationals.
When issuing residence permits, both Switzerland and Liechtenstein carry out exact examinations and inquiries, paying careful attention to security.
I would also like to point out that both Switzerland and Liechtenstein apply in every case the same high-quality security standards as the other States, which belong to the EU.
Accordingly, a fundamental part of what we were proposing has been safeguarded, and we therefore expect the Commission and the Council to endorse Parliament's decision. &#160;&#160; We are voting against the European Parliament’s amendments.
The poultry sector will have less reason to take preventative measures if it is given promises of compensation in advance. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, speaking on behalf of the delegation of the Austrian People’s Party, I should like to make a statement of vote in relation to the Doyle report.
The Austrian delegation's support for it is expressly subject to the condition enunciated by Mrs Doyle and given on the basis of Commissioner Kyprianou’s statement.
The draft produced by the Conciliation Committee provides that Member States may retain stricter national requirements until the end of 2012.
This step is possible under Article 95(10) of the Treaty and ensures that Austria and Denmark can retain their stricter measures on a temporary basis.
I congratulate all parties in this process in reaching agreement to protect stricter laws in countries like Denmark, and in issues of labelling.
Restricting the use of HFC-134a and other gases with high greenhouse effect in new vehicles launched onto the market since 2011 and the extension to cover all vehicles as from 2017 are measures that will bring about a significant reduction in emissions.
For that reason among others, and also in order to rob refugees of the illusion that they can enter the EU illegally, I have voted against this resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly a positive development that Parliament has given its verdict on the subject of Malta’s immigration centres and, what is more, only a few days after the visit by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, in which I was able to take part as a delegate.
The resolution, however, makes it quite clear that Europe is highly responsible for what happens in Malta.
However, the situation in Malta, although a far cry from that of Lampedusa in terms of the occupants’ living conditions, does call to mind that Italian island in terms of its size and reception capacity.
I therefore urge the Council to adopt a clear and strong position so that, in line, of course, with the principle of solidarity, we arrive as quickly as possible at a common and fair immigration policy aimed at preventing the costs of these waves of illegal immigrants from burdening only the budgets of a few States on the periphery of southern Europe, which are totally unable to support themselves financially. &#160;&#160; The June List is opposed to a single common European policy on asylum and refugees.
We do not therefore believe that this is an issue for the European Parliament.
We believe that the Member States themselves should be free to decide what forms their immigration and asylum policies should take, as long as they are in accordance with current international law.
We are voting against the resolution in its entirety. &#160;&#160; The plenary discussion in the presence of Alexander Milinkevich has provided an expression of the European Parliament’s solidarity with the Belarus people in their struggle against totalitarianism, for freedom and a new tomorrow.
In its resolution, the European Parliament speaks in no uncertain terms of the presidential elections having been manipulated.
The resolution acknowledges the immense enthusiasm of the young people who have now been thrown out of universities.
Slovakia has already joined those countries that have pledged to help such students, and they will now be able to complete their studies in Slovakia.
I believe that the flame of solidarity will never be extinguished in the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, point 2 of the resolution required us to vote on two separate issues.
I hope that Parliament will also take a stand on the presidential elections in the oil-producing countries of Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan, and other countries which are not free and where the results have been falsified. &#160;&#160; Ukraine had an Orange Revolution but life there remained grey.
Moscow had a White Revolution and the result is clear to see: a fall of 10 years in life expectancy, a declining population, crime, destruction of the healthcare systems and pillaging of the country's assets for the benefit of the oligarchs.
It is quite understandable that the European Parliament is delighted with the media-political democracy of the magnates Messrs Berlusconi, Bouygues, Lagardère and Murdoch.
I stand by my support for the resolution. &#160;&#160; . – The Kommounistiko Komma Elladas is voting against the joint motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and expresses its solidarity with the people of Belarus.
The European Parliament, elected by 30% of the citizens of the ΕU, is trying to give lessons in democracy to a people of whom 93% participated in the elections and 80% of whom elected the President.
The workers and the grass-roots movement need to condemn the imperialist plans and stand side by side in their struggle and their right to decide on their future and choose their own destiny. &#160;&#160; The Left Party’s delegation to the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left firmly repudiates the Lukashenko regime and its crimes in violation of democratic and human rights.
They clearly confirmed their desire to become part of the European Union, on the basis of sharing its fundamental principles and criteria.
The joint resolution demonstrates that the European Parliament is politically mature, capable of reaching political agreement based on a broad consensus, and sending a&#160;clear signal to the Ukrainian people.
The 'international observers' and the representatives of the EU and imperialism failed to see the murders of two communist party cadres, the attacks on its offices, the writing off of 200&#160;000 voters in the Lugansk region who did not vote and the forgeries in the Crimea.
We in this House must play our part, as we did in the Orange Revolution itself, though today we must continue to support the forces of progress and democracy within the Ukraine.
The June List seeks limited EU cooperation within this area and would prefer to see aid policy renationalised.
We are therefore voting against this resolution. &#160;&#160; The report discusses a crucial issue in relation to EU aid, namely its ineffectiveness.
If the report had been about aid at Member State level, we should naturally have voted in favour of it, because inefficiency and corruption are two great obstacles to constructive and effective development cooperation.
The first victims were reported on 29&#160;March in Diyarbakir and other fatalities were reported in the following days throughout the region.
Since then other fatalities have been reported, including among the security forces.
The PKK is a terrorist organisation.
We feel that we are victims of these terrorist acts.
But at the same time, we deeply deplore human casualties and call on the Turkish authorities to shed light on those events, through a comprehensive investigation, and to make sure that the security forces show the necessary strength in face of the demonstrators.
We urge the Turkish Government to address in a comprehensive manner&#160;– and not only from the security point of view&#160;– the problems of this region and of its people, who are for the most part of Kurdish origin.
The Commission recalls and stresses that under the Copenhagen political criteria, Turkey must ensure cultural diversity and promote the cultural rights of all its citizens as set out in the revised Accession Partnership adopted by the Council in January&#160;2006.
We will raise these issues with the Turkish authorities as part of our regular monitoring of the political criteria.
In Parliament’s report adopted at the end of 2004, we pressed for the development of the south east and for more cultural rights for the Kurdish people.
Indeed, the protection of, and respect for, human rights of everyone in Turkey is a for EU membership.
It is unfortunate that the current violence interrupts a period of , because some progress had already been made, for example, by the Turkish Government making Kurdish television possible.
The agreements that were in place before the recent outbreak of violence must be further developed and, above all, implemented.
They are all doing their bit in their own way to impede Turkey’s progress towards the European Union.
The Turkish police and army are not serving the interests of the Turkish Government in their excessive use of force against protestors in Diyarbakir and other towns.
The fact is the military has a vested interest in the prolongation of the violence, because that enhances its power, its importance and its resources.
A very hopeful development over the last few days has been the very moderate calls by people like Ahmed Türk and Osman Baydemir, the major of Diyarbakir, for an end to the violence and for political discussions.
I somewhat regret that the Commission did not say anything about encouraging the Turkish Government to go down this route: not only of social and economic progress, which clearly is needed, not only of the recognition of linguistic and cultural rights, but of actually talking about political dialogue and a political solution in the Kurdish region in south-east Turkey in the construction of the Turkish State.
The Commission seems to baulk at giving the Turkish Government that encouragement.
I would like to express, on behalf of my Group, our great concern about the situation in Turkey that we have seen in the media.
Over the past week at least 15 people have lost their lives in clashes between demonstrators and Turkish security forces in the south-east and in terrorist attacks in Istanbul.
We strongly condemn the disproportionate use of force by police forces in Diyarbakir and Kiziltepe.
The PKK needs to do the same.
It needs to evolve’. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, and in particular of my colleague Mr Agnoletto, I would like to express my horror at the violent clashes in South-Eastern Turkey.
Of the 278 persons detained in Diyarbakir, 91 are under the age of 18.
If the Turkish security forces continue to shoot at civilians in Diyarbakir, Batman, Mardin and in many other Kurdish cities, and if the death toll rises still higher, then this chasm will become wider and the prospect of a peaceful solution more distant.
The possibility needs to be discussed of the accession negotiations being suspended if the Turkish Government and the Turkish army continue to disregard democratic principles and violate human rights.
It cannot – it must not – be tolerated any longer that 20 million Kurds should be denied their political and cultural rights and a say in how their society is shaped. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the attitude of the Turkish authorities towards current events in Diyarbakir and the management of the crisis in south-eastern Turkey are unacceptable from the point of view of the European Parliament.
The confidence of Turkey’s Prime Minister, Recep Erdogan, verges on arrogance.
I am convinced that, on the basis of the decision to open negotiations with Turkey, the European Union now has the right to suspend these negotiations. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is with regret that we observe the outbreaks of violence in south-east Turkey and with disgust that we see soldiers and innocent civilians being murdered in Turkey.
It has chosen European prospects and, thanks to these prospects, we have seen some progress over recent years on the question of the human rights of the Kurds, whose existence was barely recognised a few years ago.
However, Turkey must continue on this course.
Prime Minister Erdogan announced recently that Turkey would not step away from its objective of democracy and development and that it would introduce greater freedoms, more democracy, social assistance, rights and justice.
I believe that the message to come out of our debate today must be a message of condemnation of the acts of terrorism against innocent civilians in Istanbul and other towns and of the military violence by the Turkish forces of repression against the Kurdish population.
The powers pushing for war and for the army to stay in power at all costs are responsible for the situation in south-east Turkey.
The powers that be and the army in Turkey find in the action of the PKK a convenient pretext for continuing to intervene in political life and trying to define the terms of the resolution to the Kurdish problem.
The Turkish political leadership and the Erdogan government are responsible for proceeding with courage and decisiveness to complete the reforms and for the smooth political, economic and social integration of the Kurdish people.
The Kurdish problem will be resolved not on terms of suppression and violence, but on terms of democratic dialogue, development and the flourishing of the rights of the Kurdish people.
The European Union has its political responsibility for formulating an integrated strategy for the Kurdish problem in Turkey: - it must remain a constant and consistent supporter of its European prospects, while at the same time controlling, without concessions and expediencies, the honouring of obligations by Turkey; - it must confirm its support for the territorial integrity and unity of the Turkish state and condemn the objectives of secession in the dead-end strategy of the PKK; - it must take initiatives to start democratic dialogue on a political solution to the Kurdish problem and on the safeguarding of the role and rights of the Kurdish community in the institutions and society of Turkey.
Finally, the European Union, in cooperation with Turkish and Kurdish agencies, must help to formulate and implement economic and social reconstruction programmes to combat poverty and under-development, support the institutions and civil society and support the democratic moderate political forces in the area of south-east Turkey. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the situation in south-east Turkey is indeed extremely worrying but should not surprise anyone.
The Turkish Government must understand that the millions of Kurdish people living in the region must have their human rights fully respected.
Furthermore, the Turkish Government must accept that the Kurdish people are entitled to a degree of autonomy.
In addition, the Turkish Government must take the brave step of acceding to the recent request by Kurdistan Democratic Party leader Masood Barzani to accept the federal structure of Iraq and to declare a general amnesty for PKK militants.
Mr Erdogan’s Government has given signs of aspiring to achieve drastic democratic reforms in Turkey.
The Turkish people must understand that those who resist change are in fact the real enemies of Turkey.
We must also, I stress, keep an eye to our own integrity and ensure that legitimate concerns about the painfully slow progress of the peace process within Kurdistan and Turkey as a whole does not become a cipher for those within this House and within the EU who are more anti-Turkish EU membership than they are pro-democracy.
The Copenhagen criteria on recognition of cultural, historic and political rights are clear, they are already laid down.
The EU as a champion of dialogue and democracy must ensure that we always remember our own principles and our own role as honest, impartial broker, able to help and criticise where necessary. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ever since the European Union opened accession negotiations with Turkey, we have received reports of violence and serious human rights violations on a weekly basis, and that is a fact.
You yourself gave us a list, but I would like to bring to your attention the brutal murder of the elderly parents of the Kurdish Institute’s chairman in Brussels, although the other victims should not, of course, be forgotten.
These, then, are the authorities in whom the European Commission has blind faith.
Turkey simply refuses to recognise that the Turkish Kurds possess cultural and democratic rights of self-determination.
A country that denies 15 million citizens all political and cultural rights is not what I would call a democracy.
Nor, as I see it, can a country whose authorities are actively involved in serious violations of human and international law be described as a constitutional state.
One crucial step, I think, could be for the European Union to do what Turkey does not do, or refuses to do, and enter into a direct and structural dialogue with representatives of the Kurdish community in Turkey on this matter.
I would like to hear your opinion on this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in my view the greatest service that could be given to the people of south-eastern Turkey is for Kurdish extremist groups to cease their campaign of violence and terrorism.
The most recent of those was last August, for less than a month.
Since then it has continued its campaign of violence and murder.
Turkey’s EU accession negotiations are now under way.
None of that can be achieved with a background of violence or the continuing threat of violence.
I think we can all conclude that the situation in south-east Turkey is serious and, therefore, we all look forward to that situation being addressed vigorously through a comprehensive strategy, encompassing not just security concerns – which are legitimate – but also the socio-economic development of the region and the development of cultural rights.
The Commission will encourage the Turkish Government and its Prime Minister to take steps based on the commitment they made in that speech in Diyarbakir.
The stability of the region is key to properly addressing those issues and the continuation of terrorist attacks represents a serious threat in this respect.
At the same time, it is very important that the security forces and the authorities show restraint and do not use excessive force when they deal with civilians.
All these issues will be raised with the Turkish authorities as part of our regular monitoring of the political criteria. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on Darfur(1). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, we have had repeated occasion to discuss the situation in Darfur, albeit not for some time, even though things there have taken a lamentable and tragic turn for the worse.
We find ourselves in a similar situation today.
That is why I am very glad that we in this House are again returning to this issue.
The tragedy is that 18 months on, bombings, attacks and rapes are still taking place, despite the best efforts of the African Union both in the Abuja peace talks and on the ground in Darfur.
In resolution after resolution we have demanded that it cooperate with the international community in order to help its own population, but very little indeed happens.
If this money is to be of any use, the regime needs to cooperate rather than seek to thwart our efforts.
In Darfur, an unprecedented brutal conflict is raging, one that gives the European Union the opportunity to show what its role outside of Europe can be.
While China and Russia veto every action, the African Union is still trying to get the Sudanese Government on board, but it is too little, too late and too long-drawn-out.
Today’s appeal by our House in an excellent common resolution gives clear direction and impetus to Mr Solana, the Council, the Commission, and to our governments too.
The credibility of Europe’s role in the world is at stake. &#160;&#160; . – It is a strange fact that until oil was found in southern Sudan, Darfur was not talked about very much.
Secession attempts by potentially wealthy regions in Africa are nothing new.
The United Nations Mission in Sudan (UNMIS) has gone as far as it can and the talks in Abuja are not making progress.
The conflict has worsened and is spreading to neighbouring Chad.
The international community must not abdicate its responsibility to protect.
All Members of the United Nations Security Council must assume their responsibilities, including countries such as China that have protected the corrupt, criminal dictatorial regime in Khartoum.
The LRA is only a small force, but it is increasingly expanding because abducted young boys are being used as combatants.
The situation is critical, they need our protection now.
It is highly inappropriate that some countries, such as Russia, are blocking the work of the UN Security Council in relation to this matter.
The European Union and the United States have expressed their support for the transfer of the mission from the African Union – whose 7&#160;000 troops are quite unequal to the task – to troops provided by the UN.
The UN’s special emissary to Sudan, Jan Pronk, sums the situation up in bitter words, saying that the UN's efforts at peace in Darfur have ended in failure, and that too little has been done too late.
Our resolution emphatically calls on the UN Security Council to meet to discuss the violence in Darfur and to do justice to its responsibility for the protection of civilians. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think we should all be a little bit ashamed of ourselves because we are living in what we are calling a diplomatic society and civilisation, which is supposed to be one of the most advanced civilisations in the history of the world.
I shall conclude by saying the situation is so grave that in my country, Malta, one third of the refugees – and we had a debate and vote on it during this part-session – come from Darfur.
In particular women and children are the first to suffer from this continued violence and the persistent lack of security.
The conflict is now spreading rapidly into neighbouring Chad and could jeopardise the fragile Sudanese conciliation process, initiated with the signature of the comprehensive peace agreement between Khartoum and the SPLM on 9 January 2005.
The Commission, Member States and the international community are very supportive of the African Union’s objective to reach a rapid peace agreement in the talks in Abuja.
The Commission believes that it is now high time for the parties, under the auspices of the African Union and with the support of the international community, to identify a roadmap to peace in Darfur and for the AU-UN transition with specific benchmarks and clearly assigned responsibilities.
Nevertheless, to be sustainable a political conciliation in Darfur has also to be based on the provisions of justice and international support for the construction of the region.
We in the European Union could provide support and call upon the international community to provide support for the refugees now numbering hundreds of thousands, I understand, in neighbouring countries such as Syria and Jordan.
That is something that all of the international community knows, as does the new Iraqi Government.
Mr President, since the invasion of Iraq in March 2003, thousands of people have been arrested by foreign troops, mostly from the United States and the United Kingdom.
Furthermore, thousands of these people have been in this situation for more than a year.
In any event, I would like to make two proposals which I believe to be fundamental, even though they are not taken up in the compromise Resolution itself.
Firstly, I would like to call upon the multinational forces and the Iraqi authorities to publish the names of the people being held, to guarantee them the necessary legal representation and to allow them family visits, as we also recently demanded in the case of Guantánamo.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is closely related to the issues we are dealing with in the temporary committee on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners. &#160;&#160; Mr President, speaking on behalf of the PSE Group I should like to say that we are all aware of the awful situation in Iraq’s prisons.
We urge the Iraqi authorities and the multinational force to find the perpetrators of the crimes against them, to facilitate the return and resettlement of the Assyrians in secure environments where their customs and way of life are respected, and urge the Constitutional Committee of the Iraqi Council of Representatives to preserve the cultural and religious rights of all Iraqi communities in its proposals for constitutional amendments. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, according to the latest information, at least 14&#160;000 prisoners are being held in Iraq without any definite charge being laid against them.
There is no doubt about it; these prisons in Iraq are part of the policy of occupation.
The EU itself has a hand in what is going on in Iraq in the shape – among other things – of the Eurojust-Lex programme, which, I believe, needs to be reviewed, since, if the present legal system is to be judged by the vast number of people in jail, the programme can hardly be effective in any real sense.
There have indeed been some improvements, but we must, unfortunately, note that a number of things have also got worse.
The hardest hit by all this are the less numerous peoples and particularly the small minorities such as the Assyrians and other small ethnic groupings.
I am very struck by the way in which so many in this House find it so difficult to stand up for the rights of Christians and to speak up in their defence.
What must be plain to us is that, while we have overthrown a dictatorship, and are engaged in building up democracy and the rule of law – an objective I endorse and that needs masses of support from the EU – we must then be willing to be judged by appropriate standards.
From the standpoint of a supporter of the intervention in Iraq by the United States and other democratic powers, I have to say that it is with great concern and sadness that I receive news of indications of human rights infringements perpetrated by a government which was supposed to be democratic and which should have brought democracy to Iraq.
In fact, we find ourselves in an unfortunate situation if, after toppling Saddam Hussein’s dictatorship, we continue to witness human rights abuses in Iraq.
The rights of religious minorities, Muslims and all other minorities one could possibly imagine and which exist on our continent are also guaranteed.
The Iraqi Human Rights Ministry and the EU Integrated Rule of Law Mission for Iraq Eurojust Lex should play a particularly important role in controlling this problem.
Colleagues, these despicable crimes are not happening in evil Hussein’s prisons, but in US- and British-controlled and run prisons.
To most people, Iraq is not a state in which they share but rather a battlefield between external interests and the very divergent group interests of, and the opinions held by, Shiites, Sunnis, Kurds and the Christian minorities who predated the Islamic era, and who, unlike the other groups, do not have their own territory as a possible federal state in a federation.
Whilst the proposed resolution is right to identify a number of flaws, it is still far too optimistic and does not really contribute to a solution of the problems.
Massacres of the Assyrian people are nothing new, as 33 of them have been recorded since the third century, but they have become increasingly frequent in recent times.
It needs to be made easier for refugees to return home, and real aid also needs to be delivered to Iraqis to rebuild their country.
The American authorities boast that they investigate all reports of inappropriate treatment of prisoners.
The Pentagon states that, over the last few years, disciplinary action has been taken against 200 soldiers accused of inappropriate treatment of prisoners.
If we do want to plant the seeds of democracy in this country, we shall certainly not be able to do so while our representatives there become perpetrators instead of bringing aid. &#160;&#160; – The humanitarian disaster in Iraq is the result of the aggression perpetrated by the United States and the ‘coalition of the willing'.
We must therefore take a firm line on these issues and adopt this motion for a resolution, in its amended form.
It would therefore, in turn, be opportune for the criteria contained in the resolution to serve as the basis for the guidelines for future negotiations on aid for today’s occupying force and the puppet regime.
Lack of respect for human rights and the rule of law in Iraq is a matter of grave concern for the international community.
This is one of the key objectives for the European Union as laid down in the medium-term strategy of June 2004.
We condemn any incidents of abuse of prisoners in Iraq, whether by Iraqi forces or by multinational forces, as contrary to international humanitarian law, and call for those responsible to be brought to justice.
It is vital for Iraq and the international community to work together to reassert full respect for international law, including human rights and humanitarian standards.
The Commission and the European Union Member States are working together to strengthen the rule of law through an ESDP – European Security and Defence Policy – operation called EUJUST LEX.
It is an Integrated Rule of Law Mission providing training in EU Member States in the fields of management and criminal investigation for 770 senior officials and executive staff of the Iraqi judiciary, police and prisons.
We in the European Union are rightly proud of our deep and profound relationship with Egypt.
We bitterly regret, therefore, that after the recent presidential election and the parliamentary elections in Egypt in November and December last year, Dr&#160;Nour was arrested.
He came second in the last presidential elections and he remains in prison today where his health continues to deteriorate.
It is positive, after a fashion, that his case will be reviewed by the Court of Cassation on 18&#160;May 2006, but we must keep a watchful eye on this trial.
In paragraphs 7 and 8 of the resolution, which I would ask the Commissioner to comment on this afternoon, we call on the Commission to create a specific subcommittee on human rights in the framework of the EU-Egypt Association Agreement.
There is a human rights deficit in Egypt that must be addressed.
The creation of a specific committee to monitor and enforce the action plan will be a concrete way to give teeth to the warm words that this House too often produces.
Egypt is fundamental in the Middle East, it is crucial in the Mediterranean and it is, and must continue to be, a privileged partner of the European Union.
I met Mr&#160;Nour at the first session of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, following its creation in March 2005, in Cairo.
The state of emergency proclaimed in 1981 is still an important instrument for sustaining this situation.
Due to Egypt’s contribution to the stability in the Middle East, particularly the peaceful co-existence with neighbour Israel since 1978, there is noticeably little criticism from Europe with regard to this situation.
He wants to give hope to those people who believe in a free tomorrow.
Egypt plays a crucial part, in many ways, in the Middle East.
If it does not show the way to democratisation for the rest of that region, its future will be condemned in advance.
The Commission has been following closely the trial of Mr Nour, the leader of Egypt’s opposition Al-Ghad Party, since his first arrest in February 2005.
As you will be aware, in reacting to the five-year sentence given to Mr Nour last December, the European Union stressed that the imprisonment sent a negative signal about democratic reform in Egypt.
In our opinion, the case should be seen in the context of the process of democratisation in Egypt, as well as being related to the independence of the judiciary.
The Commission is ready to engage in a political and human rights dialogue with Egypt, in the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy.
The negotiations for the conclusion of an action plan are well advanced.
In order to monitor the implementation of the action plan – and this should answer Mr Smith’s question – a structure of subcommittees will be created in the framework of the Association Agreement.
The subcommittees will deal with political and human rights reforms in Egypt. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at the end of the debates, in other words in a moment. &#160;&#160; The next item is Voting Time. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to propose an oral amendment to insert a new paragraph&#160;5a.
