This is especially true of the motor vehicle industry, in which changes in production processes and the opening up of new markets have significant effects on employment.
This will require foresight, and these procedures must be prepared in good time and managed in an appropriate way.
At European level, we have laid down minimum rules with which all Member States and all enterprises must comply in the event of large-scale job reductions or other measures potentially affecting workers.
The directives on collective redundancies, the transfer of undertakings, and European Works Councils constitute our legal framework for protecting workers’ rights and for guaranteeing fair standards for information and consultation at national and supranational level.
The Commission is currently examining developments in this sector in order to identify the elements required for restructuring and the long-term competitiveness of industry in the EU.
I hope that every effort will be made, by means of a dialogue between the parties concerned, to avoid, or at least to alleviate, them. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, the tragedy caused by the drastic streamlining measures at Ford Genk has exposed a number of painful areas in the European car industry.
There is the slump in sales, 5% since 1999 to be precise, the environmental burden against which Europe may have taken various, but insufficient, measures, as well as the powerlessness of the Member States to have any impact whatsoever on international company strategies.
Thirdly, large-scale reorganisations have a social dimension.
Finally, it is not all doom and gloom in Belgium's car industry: Volvo, Opel and Volkswagen are continuing to invest and Ford has decided to further develop the new Mondeo in Genk.
I hope, though, that the Commission will remember this statement when it amends the European Works Councils Directive, as it is shortly to do, and will at last take account of something that has, in some places, become common practice, that is, making the European Works Council responsible when European mainstream issues are under discussion in a firm, and will also extend the rights of information and consultation in such a way that rights of participation – and I am not talking about consultation, but about participation – are built in.
This has forced us to examine not only the role of the automobile industry, but also the role of industry as a whole.
I think that we can also ask companies to aim for the highest possible level of stability and transparency: why do they take certain measures and why do they take them at a certain location and not at others?
It is often said that we are heading towards a service economy, but I take the view that a service economy without an industrial basis is a very precarious matter, because products and marketing go hand in hand, and the same applies to services.
If we really want not only to become the strongest region in economic terms by 2012, but also, as was stated at Lisbon, to create full employment, then the Commission, too, has to go about things in an entirely different way. &#160;&#160; – It is true that the automobile industry is in crisis, but there will always be a need for individual transport.
After all, different media, including the weekly magazine , have also reminded us that Flemish managers warned the Belgian Government that Belgium, and thus Flemish industry – which is already being weighed down by excessive labour costs – has been placed in a bad light in the United States.
If they are not, a region like Flanders should be able to outline socio-economic policy of its own. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly, may I say to many colleagues here who are directly affected in the Limburg region, that I represent a region in the United Kingdom, the West Midlands, which has probably been more affected by structural change in the automotive industry than any other region in Europe.
I want to say to colleagues from Limburg that we have had that experience and we now have a thriving automotive industry in the United Kingdom; we have more international car manufacturers assembling cars in the United Kingdom than any other country in the European Union.
Ford has announced that it is going to make the next generation Ford Mondeo at Genk and our job is to ensure that we have a demand for that car.
If we have joined-up policy-making, however, we will have a long-term, sustainable future for automotive manufacture in Europe. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of this debate, I should like to ask you two urgent questions in connection with the reorganisation at Ford and, more specifically, the collective dismissal of about 3&#160;000 workers in Genk.
I do not think that I have to convince anyone of the fact that this is a real tragedy, not only for the people at Ford Genk, but also for the suppliers and for the region as a whole.
The reorganisation at Ford is clearly a European matter, because the cancellation of investments at Ford Genk has repercussions for two other establishments in Germany.
This, in my view, clearly contravenes legislation concerning the European works council for which we voted here in 1994.
In my country, Catalonia, this sector saw 31 so-called social plans – , in Catalan – in 2001-2002, as a result of which 5&#160;200 employees were made redundant.
The first reason is, I fear, the very complex system of Belgian social security.
In the case of Renault, it has transpired that this can have a positive outcome.
The European Works Council has been notified, and there has been a breach of Belgian law on collective labour agreements.
Reference has been made to the Structural Funds, and to the fact that they will be subject to a review in 2006.
Let me reiterate one thing, and do so clearly.
Another important element in this context will be following up the ongoing consultation with the social partners on the restructuring of enterprises.
Let us all work at them and do our utmost to create the instruments – whether legal acts or in some other form – to further develop these concepts. &#160;&#160; – However much I admire the Commissioner for his agricultural policy, I do not think it right that there should be nobody from the Commission following these proceedings, given the huge importance of the debate on the automobile industry's future and the relevant social dimension.
Taking all this into consideration, we would like to ask the following two questions: How does the Commission intend to use its right of initiative (in other words its right to take active steps) to implement the social policy agenda, both with regard to the old points and with regard to the points we have put forward on behalf of the European Parliament?
That is our first question.
The Commission has announced a comprehensive package of initiatives and actions, in which all the relevant actors will be involved.
Let me say, in response to your two questions, that the Commission is using its right of initiative to propose the specific measures that are required and that have been announced in the mid-term review.
That applies, though, not only to the new Member States that will be joining the European Union next year, but to all the Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your answer.
After all, you cannot simply concoct a whole series of new directives when the countries that are joining next year – thus creating a global Union of 25 countries – are unable to comply with a particular dimension of this European Union.
It is developing much too slowly and on much too narrow a scale.
When the new countries join, employment levels will naturally fall, not increase.
We are no longer in a position to introduce 40 new directives, not even 10.
We know that there are more than 15&#160;million unemployed people in the European Union and more than 60&#160;million who live on less than 60% of the average national income.
Consequently, as stated in my recent report on implementing the Social Policy Agenda, which this plenary adopted in September, priority must be given to solving the serious problems of unemployment and poverty – including persistent poverty – in all Community policies, specifically in competition policy (and since the Commissioner responsible for the common agricultural policy is here with us, this could at least help us to look at farming issues and here too amend policy, with a view to combating poverty and social exclusion), not forgetting the Structural Funds and the Stability Pact.
The introduction of the EU’s socio-political legislation on the working environment and labour law will mean a very great deal for wage earners in the new Member States.
The risk of social dumping between our countries will be much reduced, something that is incredibly important.
The impasse we have reached in this area must naturally not be taken as a reason for not doing anything else in areas relating to the situation of non-typical jobs, including in connection with this directive.
If we do not create a better framework of definitions and labour and social regulations in Europe, this social will soon only apply to a small minority of employees, and they will not be the ones who need it most!
I also agree with you that it is now in particular, so to speak on the eve of enlargement, necessary that we have to give particular attention to how these issues fit into this context, and, like you, I believe that this is a matter of urgency.
On the other hand, though, it should not be thought that this is only about growth, in other words, only about the economy; it is also, of course, about social protection.
The answer is, none.
There are, now and again, people who tell us that we do, whereupon we are placed among other minorities.
There are quite a few reasons why there are not enough women, and these apply everywhere.
Women constitute half the new Europe, and it is absolutely fundamental that this half should also be involved in deciding the framework for, and content of, further cooperation.
Naturally, men do not voluntarily relinquish power, just as we women also find it extremely difficult to give up so-called power over our children.
It is now important, however, for us to try to discuss this matter and to understand that, if we are to have this EU cooperation accepted among the EU’s populations, it would perhaps be a good idea if we were to try inviting women to participate and if, above all, we were to devise systems that might give women opportunities to be elected if they were finally to appear on the lists.
In a Parliament with greater influence upon European legislation than we have ever had before, we are thus now in danger of having far less than 30% women, because women are so poorly represented in, for example, the new countries.
This too emphasises the importance of bringing about balanced representation for women and men in the decision-making process, especially in the run-up to the elections to the European Parliament next year.
If we profess democratic values, the representation of the people and citizens’ active participation, we cannot at the same time exclude half the population from the bodies in which the decisions are taken.
As pointed out in the report, all the Member States have committed themselves to implementing the UN’s action plan from the 1995 Beijing Conference, together with a series of other international programmes in support of the principle of equal participation by women and men in decision-making bodies and in the decision-making process.
Balanced representation for women and men in the decision-making process and in all areas of life is also the central theme of the Commission’s 2003-2004 Work Programme.
The main aims of the database are firstly to measure progress in relation to the commitments made and, secondly, to bring about increased awareness in the present Member States, the EEA countries and the candidate countries of the situation regarding women and men in decision-making positions.
The Syracuse Conference, together with the subsequent informal meetings between the ministers for equality, emphasised the need to maintain the efforts to achieve balanced representation of women and men in the decision-making processes at all levels.
These objectives are also among the tools and basic conditions that will enable women to participate in political life and the life of society generally. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the important report she has produced and at a time such as this, on the eve of the European Parliament elections.
We therefore call for concrete measures to facilitate the presence of women in electoral lists and, therefore, in the European Parliament.
In this case, this request could be extended to the other regional or national parliaments in which the representation of women is still low in comparison with the percentage of women, who make up half the population, and in some cases rather more than half the population.
We have had experience over recent years of the presence of women continuing to increase slightly, but in no case has it passed much more than 30% and we are right to fear that in the next European elections it may be reduced.
Only the political will of leaders, of parties, when it comes to making decisions, will ensure that there are really more women following the elections and therefore a better balance between men and women in decision-making. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it really is curious, after 50 years of European policy on gender equality and 100 years since the right of women to vote was claimed and recognised, that we are trying here to persuade everyone of the self-evident, in other words that men and women should share all the responsibilities and all the obligations of both private and public life equally and fairly, that there should be a balanced participation of men and women in democratic institutions and in all political decision-making centres.
The Lisbon strategy, like other ambitious European policies, urgently needs the full participation of women at all planning and decision-making levels in order to achieve its objectives.
In the run up to the European elections, we need additional strategies and legislative measures, positive action, quotas or political agreements which will safeguard the balanced participation of men and women in electoral combinations and in the elected bodies which result.
It has come at exactly the right time, just before the European elections, and it has been mentioned here by several speakers already: we will have to do our utmost to match this turnout percentage of 30-31% that was achieved for the European Parliament elections.
I therefore believe that in the context of the verification of these countries, we will have to ensure that gender equality forms part of our future fundamental community law, and that we must therefore make sure on an internal level that this is also done in the relevant parliaments.
It is all very well pointing the finger at other countries, however; but we also have examples of women being seriously short-changed in our own countries.
Not because there are no capable women, but because there are always other people who are more important and who have to take priority.
Commissioner Wallström said that men elect men.
Yes, men in political parties, especially, elect men.
We all share a concern about how balanced the representation of gender is going to be in the European Parliament in the next legislature.
There can be no genuine democracy if women are unable to participate in decision-making at all its levels.
The fact is that the establishment of pluralist parliamentary democracy does not in itself guarantee equal participation of women and men in political decision-making.
The aim of an equal society is dimly visible as decision-making without the need for quotas, with the highest decision-making bodies representing the genders equally.
The political groups should agree common policies to reach a position where in the end equality becomes a reality in economic, political and social life.
I now want to throw down the gauntlet, as it were, and ask the male Members of the European Parliament here to think about whether they have ever voted for a woman.
That is the way things are, but it is something we can counteract by requiring the same number of candidates from each sex or, as I would prefer, at least 50% women.
Nine of our candidates are under 40 years old and seven of them under 30 and, what is more, all of them are qualified.
We have no special quota arrangement for young people but have made a conscious effort at renewal so that it is possible to give women and young people a real chance to compete with us old men.
It is a pleasure to be able to contribute a success story from the real world to the debate on equality.
The other countries’ editions just talk about equality rather than gender equality. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are debating today refers of course to the forthcoming European elections, but it also has wider significance for the participation of women in political life.
The rapporteur's report contains interesting data on the current situation in the Member States and in the European Parliament.
I think that promoting exchanges of these experiences is very important because it raises the awareness of the competent agencies, it gives them ideas about applying measures and evaluating progress.
Plebiscites and referenda, where they have been held, tell us that women are the citizens most distanced from the issues of European policy and the most Euro-sceptical citizens.
This is a challenge which concerns us all, at both European and national level, and the European elections give us an opportunity to demonstrate our determination to face up to it. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it can only be a source of delight today to see two front page headlines in the popular press devoted to the positions that the Commission and the European Parliament wish to adopt in order to ensure the equality of the sexes as regards both their access to goods and services and their representation in Parliament.
The transparently weak representation of women in the decision-making process raises the problem of the legitimacy of the political structures, for the operation of a democratic system reflects the society it advocates or defends.
If this is to be possible, and not only desirable, we need from now on to act in such a way that the 2004 campaign affirms and brings to fruition the principle of effective democracy in which both sexes are represented, for the slightest decline in our representation would be a signal that might be misinterpreted on the eve of enlargement. &#160;&#160; I would like to draw your attention to the greatest inequality of power that exists: the one between men and women, and I would like to thank the for her report, which once again emphasises the need for parity.
Only 14% of their representatives in this Parliament are women.
If we have 100 new members of Parliament, then in the worst-case scenario, if the same ratio applies, we will have 86 men and 14 women.
That is why we in the European Parliament want to give firm support to all women and to all governments who want to change things for the better, because nothing will happen without voluntary action.
The countries where the best results have been achieved have been those governments which have amended their legislation.
I expect the Commission to introduce an initiative, I expect initiatives to be introduced by the Council, so that equality in this Parliament, both and does not decrease but improve after accession. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I share the concern expressed in Mrs&#160;Dybkjær’s excellent report regarding the under-representation of women in the European Parliament.
The proportion of women working in the national parliaments in the new Member States is not more than 30% at best and in more than half of the new Member States the proportion of women members of parliament hovers around the 10% mark.
Women often see EU decision-making as too distant, abstract and highfalutin.
If we had 50%, that would be parity.
We content ourselves with only 30%, or tell ourselves that we have made progress because we have done very well in comparison with other countries.
The Commission must accept its responsibility.
In this area, there is, of course, also a very important role for the political parties, the European Parliament and the non-governmental organisations.
To make sure that we are in line with that Rule, I would propose that we add an oral amendment to all three reports which would read 'Considers that the financial statement as amended is compatible with the ceiling of headings 3 and 5 of the financial perspectives 2000-2006'. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I strongly urge Parliament to adopt this amendment.
This proposal will make possible a gentle period of transition, which is to say earmarking can continue in any case until next year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to ask the House to really stand up for its rights.
This situation needs to be better understood, so that we can better combat its underlying causes, which are social injustices and inequalities or wars and all those who exploit these, particularly those who take advantage of the countless people in an ‘illegal’ situation.
I therefore supported the positions advocated in the report and voted in favour of it. &#160;&#160; We would defend subsidiarity and assert that the EU institutions should not interfere with the Member States’ electoral systems or the political parties’ systems for establishing their electoral lists.
Strangest of all, the European decision of 2002 has, in accordance with Article 190(4) of the Treaty, been adopted by France by means of a law enacted only on 16&#160;October&#160;2003.
In other words, the proper procedure is now apparently to adapt the French law of April&#160;2003 to the European decision approved in October.
Increasing the participation of women in social and political life is a concern and an objective that we support, but simply calling for more women to participate in political life is not enough.
As we know, progress in the field of women’s rights and in genuine equal opportunities is only achieved when these rights have solid foundations and as the outcome of social advances that have been won in battles by workers and women for their rights and not merely through elitist, artificial and administrative measures.
I must underline the need, however, for greater participation by women in the social and political life of every country and in the EP.
Working women are the main victims, in particular as regards exercising their rights, including the right to have a job and to be elected to participate in social and political life.
Lastly, I simply wish to recall that, in the elections to the European Parliament in 1999, on the lists of the (Unitary Democratic Coalition), of which the Portuguese Communist Party is a member, 11 of the 25 candidates were women, as was the candidate heading the list. &#160;&#160; I had tabled a host of amendments to the draft report by the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities, and a number of them have been adopted.
I therefore consider that, in this area, there must be no head-on clash with countries and parties that – often, incidentally, out of respect for women – do not want quotas for women, such quotas implying that women are apparently incapable of carving out a place in the parties and in the eyes of the electorate.
There is a justifiable fear that after the enlargement of the EU, the number of women in the next European Parliament will be lower than it is at present.
We will only be able to bring about change in this area through the greater participation of women in areas where there are conflicts of opinions and interests, and through their participation in the organisations involved.
My party, the Socialist Party of the Netherlands, has lists for the Upper and Lower Houses which comprise 50% women in electable seats, but we do not do this through coercion but through conviction.
This boils down to ‘sexual apartheid’ and implies a contravention of the free and individual right to elect and be elected.
The Commission must provide objective information on the effect of different legislative and other instruments.
I have abstained from the because I want to be in a position to maintain the dialogue between all the institutional players involved in this issue, which is so very important for Asia and Latin America.
In recent years, this has even led to the collapse of several national economies on these two continents.
We could not support Amendments 1 and 2 to split the Regulation; 93 and 94 to reduce funding for Asia and increase funding for Latin America; 3, 18, 56 and 97 on benchmarks and a Bi-Regional Solidarity Fund for Latin America (creating a cumbersome and wasteful extra layer of bureaucracy); or 18, 28, 29, 56, 57, 95, 96, and 99 which create a rigid framework for programmes intended for poverty reduction.
The greatest proportion of the world’s poor live in Asia.
It would therefore be a mistake to transfer EU funds from Asia to Latin America.
Unfortunately, Parliament today voted in favour of two regulations, which will lead to a long drawn-out process involving the Council.
The budgetary allocation proposed for youth organisations, as the rapporteur also emphasises, must be increased, particularly as a result of enlargement.
The demographic structure of developing countries and the need to stimulate the interest of their young people in European issues requires just such action.
In this area, as in others, I believe it would be positive and useful to adopt instruments for coordination, with the aim of addressing issues that affect some or all of the Member States.
I have therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to talk about the way in which a temporary committee has finally been approved to investigate the effects and consequences of the unfortunate accident off the Galician coasts.
I would like to insist, however, on something: despite all the measures this Parliament has wished to implement in the European Union to prevent any similar accident, if today we had a case such as the we would run the same risk; because the was not entering or leaving any of the European Union’s ports: it was simply passing through our Community waters, and we have not yet got to grips with this, that is to say, we have not taken any decision to control ‘floating dustbins’ – such as the – which sail through our waters on a daily basis, and this is a challenge which we still have before us and which we must deal with if we want to prevent unfortunate accidents such as the in the future. &#160;&#160; .
We must bear in mind that the new reform of the Spanish Penal Code, proposed by the PP and supported by the PSOE, opens up the possibility of holding incommunicado for 13 days.
Imbalances remain between men and women in the field of training and employment in the new ICT and I therefore voted in favour of the report. - The European Commission and the Member States must draw up policies that will help to increase the participation of women in ICT. - ICT must be integrated into education from the most elementary levels to higher education and vocational training. - The Structural Funds must be used to provide courses for specific training in this field that will enable women to enter or re-enter the labour market.
People in the EU pay too much for their cars and are prevented from taking their cars with them when they move to a different country.
In many Member States, my own included, people have for the last few years heard about nothing other than tax increases planned or decided on by the EU.
If introduced, the environmental tax that is being called for would have a catastrophic effect on the EU’s image, especially at a time when various Member States have announced referendums on the adoption of the European Constitution.
Look at Portugal, for example, where one tax – the Car Tax, – makes the final selling price much higher than in other countries in the European Union.
