Facility for rapid response to soaring food prices in developing countries (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Mitchell, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on the facility for rapid response to soaring food prices in developing countries - C6-0280/2008 -.
rapporteur. - Mr President, the food facility began as a proposal from the Commission, in the light of the rising food prices that provoked riots in some countries, to use EUR 1 billion in leftover agricultural subsidy money to relieve the situation in developing countries through agricultural inputs and emergency safety nets.
This amount is additional to another EUR 100 million used from the existing emergency aid reserve.
Although I support the compromise we have now reached, I have made a point of mentioning the shortcomings of the process and the outcome, both in the interests of honesty and to highlight - as I have done on previous occasions - the ludicrous situation where governments across the globe are producing multiple billions of dollars to bail out banks but have to search their souls to find, between 27 Member States and the budget of this Union, EUR 1 billion for the poorest people in the world.
I think we have done the best we could have done in a hundred days.
The content of this report includes the fact that the compromise text has already been accepted by all Member States in COREPER, and that essential elements from my report and the amendments from my colleagues on the Committee on Development are in it.
At the end of the day, I think we have done the best we can between Council, Parliament and Commission.
It is already agreed.
Thank you, Mr Mitchell, and congratulations on your report and on a really important and admirable topic, which will enhance the European Parliament's reputation in the world as a factor for progress and solidarity.
It seems to me that our three institutions - Parliament, the Council and the Commission - have succeeded in meeting the challenge by working swiftly on this facility intended to enable a rapid response to soaring food prices in developing countries.
I should like to thank you on behalf of President Barroso and the Commission.
Finally, the objective was to revive agricultural production in the countries most affected by the increase in prices.
In other words, it was to save crops in the immediate future.
The main aim is to save the agricultural production of the 2009 harvest.
As agreed, the general plan for implementation of the facility will be submitted to you in the very near future and, in any case, by the end of April 2009.
Mr President, the Committee on Budgets was aware of the European Union's moral responsibility to countries that are in difficulty.
However, you need not regret for a moment, Commissioner, that we were unable to find the money for this noble purpose in Chapter 2.
The Committee on Budgets faced yet another problem.
The microcredit system has proven to be very successful and has helped many countries in difficulty, and we are very grateful that the Committee on Development has accepted the recommendations of the Committee on Budgets in this regard.
Commissioner, I cannot guarantee, but can predict that in all likelihood the result of the vote tomorrow will meet with your satisfaction and that of all concerned parties.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - (FR) Mr President, I shall be brief.
I should also like to thank the Commissioner for his commitment and say that the food crisis will not simply be dealt with in two or three years but will remain a concern during the years to come.
I should like to add one point in my role as representative of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
It is that, for fifteen years, the proportion of development aid devoted to agriculture has been consistently falling.
Some members of the Council were not willing to provide unspent agricultural money to support developing countries.
The money has been found elsewhere, being phased over three years from 2008 to 2010 instead of over a two-year period.
This year 100 million people were driven into poverty as a result of the food and fuel crisis, and that number continues to grow.
It may, however, help to reduce the number of them in the future, provided that the Member States do not deduct the additional funds that they have had to provide for this emergency relief from their development aid.
Therefore, Commissioner, I call on all the Member States not to reduce the additional amount provided in this sum by cutting back in their national budgets.
My group has always been in favour of the rapid granting of food aid.
This problem needs to be watched closely.
That will not be solved in one year with a billion euros.
on behalf of UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the European Union is attempting to establish a facility which will enable it to offer rapid assistance to poor and non-developing countries, to ensure that their populations survive if food prices rise.
It follows therefore that short-term responses and food aid will not solve the problem.
For this reason, regarding EUR 1 billion as a facility which will allow rapid response to food price surges in developing countries is not commensurate with the expected results, especially considering the way our Union operates.
The global food crisis and soaring prices are the result of food becoming a common commodity, an object of capitalist speculation rather than a means of survival.
This is why we need to support the European Commission's proposal increasing funds for the food distribution programme for Europe's most deprived people.
It is regrettable that some Member States are opposed to this programme. (ES) Madam President, in the framework of the current crisis, the United Nations has warned us of the dire situation faced by 22 particularly vulnerable countries, and the World Bank tells us that the 850 million people already going hungry in the world will be joined by a further 100 million as a result of the crisis.
We therefore welcome the agreement that has been reached, fulfilling a promise of adding EUR 1 billion that was made, as I was saying, at the highest political level ... (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, I would like to congratulate all those involved in this report and this very significant achievement: the rapporteur Gay Mitchell, all the political groups - including my own - and Commissioner Michel.
The introduction of the facility proposed by the regulation is a result of lower agricultural expenditure.
The European Community needs to boost the growth of agricultural production in the short and medium term in developing countries, while reducing the adverse effects of rising food prices on the poorest sections of the population in developing countries.
I am in favour of this one billion being paid - do not get me wrong - but 850 million starving people are not the result of our having had high food prices but of our having pushed the prices to such a low level in these countries with our export incentives that agriculture no longer pays.
I am favour of our strengthening food safety long-term in these countries.
It is, in reality, a rapid reaction intended as an emergency response in order to save the forthcoming crops, that is to say those of 2008-2009 - I think that we might more properly talk of those of 2009, 2010 and perhaps 2011.
This is a fundamental question which, in essence, perfectly frames the problem of the consistency of European policy with regard to agriculture.
The problem was raised by Mr Borrell.
If this were to happen, it would clearly constitute nothing more than a fool's deal, and we would undoubtedly have to continue our efforts.
Mr Virrankoski, the aid must arrive at its intended destination, and I believe in all honesty that, in the case we are discussing, it will arrive.
We must stop saying the first thing that comes into our minds on this question.
We therefore have to know what we want, but I do not believe that you can say that the aid would not arrive at its intended destination.
So the EUR 240 million will be redeployed from the stability instrument, and EUR 70 million of this in 2009.
However, I can assure you that we shall fully participate in this effort, as was decided by your Parliament and as was decided in the final agreement.
I should also like to remind you of the hundreds of millions of euros that have already been released and spent and that we shall continue to spend within the framework of our emergency humanitarian aid or emergency food aid.
Mrs Goudin, I am often in agreement with you but I have to say that I do not believe that protectionist policies are the solution in the countries that are facing this problem.
In contrast I think that what would be interesting - because I believe that protectionist policies risk throwing everything off balance, or at least risk not responding to the problems at a regional level, although this is an economic dimension that I am not going to address now - where I would be willing to back you and where we are currently working intensely, in particular with the French Presidency, is on the following question: how can we organise the specific nature of agriculture in developing countries in the same way - we seem to have rather short memories in Europe - as Europe has done for its own agriculture?
I would also like to thank Reimer Böge for his work in the Committee on Budgets in facilitating it and my shadow rapporteur, Thijs Berman, who was very supportive and helpful in seeing it through.
In the developing world, 78 children per thousand die at birth.
It used to be 45 per thousand just after the Second World War in Ireland.
If they get past birth, two million of those children will die before the age of five for lack of vaccines that have been available in the west for over 30 years.
These are the options facing us and that is why I think it is important that we can respond with a facility such as this.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) I support this initiative providing the European Union with a new development policy instrument to tackle the key problems linked to the rise in food prices that has sparked riots, unrest and instability in several countries, threatening the results of many years of investment in politics, development and peace keeping.
However, the facility needs to be adapted to specific local conditions, with a view to consolidating and streamlining markets.
Introducing this type of facility is beneficial and provides an incentive to farmers in developing countries.
However, I would like to emphasise the importance of the condition that funds are allocated on a supplementary basis and that this is not detrimental to development activities required in other areas.
We also need to protect farmers, especially those from the new Member States who still do not enjoy the same support as farmers from the other 15 Member States.
The ever-increasing scale of biofuel production has contributed towards raising the price of foodstuffs, which has in turn had a large effect upon the people of the world.
The price of foodstuffs has skyrocketed on the world market because an ever-increasing area of arable land is now being put aside to grow oil plants to be used as raw material in the production of biofuel (for example, to produce 50 litres of fuel, 200 kilograms of corn is needed, on which a Zambian or Mexican child could live for a whole year).
in writing. - (PL) The past two years have seen an escalation of agricultural produce and food prices.
This has a direct impact on the number of starving people, which increased by another 50 million in the year 2007 alone.
in writing. - I welcome the timely report on the proposal for a regulation establishing a facility for rapid response to soaring food prices in developing countries.
It has been proposed that one billion euros are to be spent to improve their situation over the period from 2008 to 2009, which is quite a notable sum in the European Union budget.
Concerning the report on a facility for responding rapidly to soaring food prices in developing countries, I am definitely in favour of its adoption, since developing countries need this kind of assistance.
At the same time, though, I would like to point out that the report failed to include among the causes of the crisis one which in my view is far more important than the increased consumption of meat in China and India or the drought in Australia.
in writing. - (SK) The record high prices for staple foods, which have a major impact on the numbers of people suffering from hunger in the world, are due to several well-known factors.
Apart from the specific situation in some countries (such as China and India) these factors include global fluctuations in the weather, the shift from growing crops for consumption to growing crops for biofuel production and low world grain stocks.
Neither the sharp food price increases in developing countries nor the results of these increases on the poorest people can justify us in failing to ensure the effective and transparent allocation of these funds.
