Common organisation of the market in wine (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Batzeli, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the reform of the common organisation of the market in wine.
This was also the message from discussions in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and from the opinions of the Committees on International Trade and Regional Development and from our consultations with operators in the sector at national and European level.
The arrangements under present policies and funding for the current COM, which have often distorted the market and the competitiveness of the product, should be converted so that the Community budget of EUR 1.3 billion under the first pillar is allocated to policies which will aim in the long term at: maintaining and strengthening European vineyards; reinforcing and improving the competitiveness of the sector at European and international level; a territorial approach that takes account of environmental protection and protection of natural resources by financing agricultural cultivation practices; balancing supply and demand by controlling production with the by-product and potable alcohol distillation mechanism and by modernising the vineyard register; the compatibility or adaptation of COM policies with CAP policies; maintaining the recognition at international and cross-regional level of quality European wines and wines with geographical indication and designation of origin, the classification of which must be decided in principle by the Council, with scientific opinions from the International Organisation of Vine and Wine; strengthening cooperation between all wine agencies from the level of production to the level of movement through operational programmes; strengthening rural and regional wine-growing with additional structural interventions.
However, with your aggressive financial interventions in grubbing up, distillation and enrichment, all the measures on the basis of which you are saving EUR 760 million euros, you would measure much smaller quantities in figures, but we would be driving European wine out of the market, even though this is not warranted by its development.
You also state very clearly that the decision to grub up cannot, and should not, be taken in a vacuum.
One issue that you come back to in the report, and which was also a key factor in our earlier debates, is your strong preference for maintaining the wine budget within the first pillar.
I have said on several occasions, and will repeat tonight that in the future the majority of funding to the sector will continue to come through the first pillar, but this should not prevent us from drawing on the obvious benefits of also having recourse to the second pillar.
My apologies to the Chair for being more lengthy than usual, but this is a very important issue which is the focus of huge attention in all the regions of Europe and that is why I took the liberty of speaking for a little longer than usual.
In its opinion, the Committee on International Trade emphasised that in the course of reforming the wine sector, the most important thing is for us to make European wine more competitive on international markets as well as on internal markets.
For it can be seen that in those regions where production is in deficit - in other words, where they consume more than they produce - or where it is in equilibrium, the growth of imports comes not primarily from wines of other European Union Member States, but from wines of third countries.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - (ES) In our opinion, we in the Committee on Regional Development have wished to stress certain issues that we believe to be important from the point of view of territorial cohesion, when it comes to implementing a reform that will have a significant impact on certain European regions.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs Batzeli, on the immense amount of work she has done.
Nevertheless, while I agree with the Commissioner that this reform is necessary, I hope that she has understood this Parliament's message, which is that grubbing-up cannot be the central element on which the reform pivots, but rather one more instrument of structural adjustment, subject to control by the Member States.
Its a priori distribution amongst producing States, according to the historical data, by means of the so-called 'national packages', will promote a more appropriate application of the reform.
In my opinion, this report on which we will be voting on Thursday shows that Parliament is responding with a proposal for reforms, admittedly, but progressive reforms.
The recipe is simple: quality wine, and promotion.
Global wine consumption is on the increase, and the economic and cultural boom in certain countries is being accompanied by an interest in drinking wine.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Madam President, Mrs Fischer Boel, ladies and gentlemen, above and beyond its role as an agricultural and economic product, wine represents our history, culture and traditions.
The Commission is proposing to reduce production and to grub up approximately 400 000 hectares of vines over five years, on the grounds of the need to reduce management costs on production surpluses and to improve European competitiveness through the principle that 'only the strongest will remain on the market'.
On the subject of grubbing-up - which, it must be emphasised time and again, should not be compulsory, but should instead consist in offering vintners the chance of ceasing operations if they see no future in the wine market - the Commission should take measures to shape a better future for the market.
The social safety nets to be found in the EU Member States do not exist in the same way in the aforesaid countries.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, since 22 July 1993, the date of the first draft reforms of the wine sector, we have been told that we need to grub up our vines, with figures to support it.
In 1993, for example, we were told that consumption in 2000 would fall to 115 million hectolitres, but in fact it was 127 million - the Commission was out by 12 million.
We are also told that there is overproduction, but where?
That, Commissioner, is why you must hold fast to wine, which the Argentinean Jorge Luis Borges called the deep patriarchal river that flows through the history of the world. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mrs Batzeli, for the work she has done, as well as Commissioner Fischer Boel, for the listening abilities that she displayed during the communication.
In promoting our wines we must promote our traditions, our land, our culture, our added value, and the expression of a great historical and cultural heritage.
For this reason, I am not at all convinced by the proposal to allow the use of imported musts to enrich our wines or blending them with the wines of non-EU countries.
I think that if we listen to each other we will be able to retain European wine production on the world stage. (FR) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a few months ago now since we were taken by surprise by the agreement on wine concluded with the United States, on which we had to call for an urgent debate and which already contained some of the bad ingredients of the reform you are proposing today: weakening of the European criteria for wine quality, confusion over geographical indications and designations of origin, acceptance of highly questionable oenological practices, greater opening of the market, which will benefit standardised products that are thought to be to the taste of the equally standardised world consumer.
Alright, let us put an end to the most absurd mechanisms that encourage overproduction and have too many perverse effects, but please, Commissioner, fight with us and put in place the resources to promote quality wines, to make the most of the variety of flavours and territories, to preserve the soil and biodiversity and to tell the whole world about the wonderful alchemy of European wine that has existed for over 2 000 years. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the figures speak for themselves: in recent years Europe has seen its production decrease, while other countries outside Europe are witnessing a constant increase in their production shares.
There is a subtle difference, but an important one, because it says a lot about the person who is talking and about their point of view and their sensitivity towards the sector.
We therefore hope that the Commission's proposal will at least show leadership and imagination and genuinely guarantee that the sector is competitive. (PT) I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Batzeli on her outstanding work in difficult circumstances and to thank Mrs Fischer Boel once again for being here in the Chamber.
It is certainly necessary to put an end to subsidised distillation, but it is essential to safeguard support for potable alcohol distillation; fortified wines, which are so important to European exports, need such support.
In recent weeks and months, we have held many discussions on the proposals for reforming the market in wine.
The Commissioner has taken the trouble to visit many wine-producing regions in recent months, and for that I am obliged to her.
We agree that we do not want to give up, we do not want to grub up 400 000 hectares.
We know that the drop in consumption in Europe combined with increasing imports from third countries has resulted in falling prices and falling incomes for wine growers and that only a policy of proactive regulation, not all-out liberalisation, will get us out of the crisis.
We want to promote quality winegrowing that respects the nature and traditions of our winegrowing areas and the diversity of holdings, especially family holdings.
The massive indiscriminate grubbing-up of 400 000 hectares, seen as a structural solution, must be clearly ruled out.
Finally, the promotion of sensible wine consumption together with a dynamic export policy, including simplified labelling, will require a real allocation of substantial budget resources. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, we are on the point of approving the report on the Commission communication on the common organisation of the market in wine together with a series of amendments.
We must be honest and protect both consumers and producers. (PL) Madam President, first of all I would like to congratulate you on your election and on chairing this debate, and to thank you on behalf of all of us for your great patience in allowing us to exceed the time limit, which was necessary for all our sakes.
Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs Batzeli, for all the work she had done in recent months preparing her report on reform of the wine sector and the excellent way in which work on this document was coordinated in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Where we disagree with the Commissioner is that we do not wish to give as much weight to grubbing-up, as all parties are in agreement that changes in structure and modernisation are at least as important as grubbing-up.
This is no solution to the structural problems in the regions that have slept through structural reforms on a bed of their distillation millions.
After all, according to the report, the difficulties in the wine sector are caused by ever greater imports from third countries.
Sweetening sugar beet is as much of a tradition in northern countries, as is acidifying wine in southern countries.
We therefore need an offensive commercial policy to promote the quality of European wines.
The European Parliament's report is therefore strongly against that.
We are told there is overproduction; alright, but refusing to act on imports is to use European production as the market 'safety valve'.
I was glad to hear you say as much just now, Commissioner; we now want to see action. (EL) Madam President, I should like to warmly congratulate my honourable friend Mrs Batzeli on her excellent work and express my satisfaction, because this report was undertaken by our honourable Member from Greece, which has a history of wine-growing going back centuries.
Wine, as an agricultural product, has always held centre stage in our life, in our customs, in our traditions, in our history, in our joy and in our sadness.
In other words, it is an integral part of our civilisation.
I would ask that we vote for the report as it stands. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to join in thanking the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for their work.
This divergence is also evidenced by the tabling of almost 600 amendments.
The wine sector itself also needs to be much more aggressive.
Therefore, I simply did not understand why at the recent World Ploughing Championships in Ireland, which attracted 250 000 visitors, only two wine producers were present, neither of them from Europe.
On imported must for vinification, I have said clearly from the beginning that we have to put everything on the table and I have taken note of the reactions from the European Parliament, from different Member States and from stakeholders.
Christa Klaß mentioned that there are huge differences within the different regions.
However, I completely disagree with some of the solutions proposed in the Commission's communication of 22 June 2006.
I also regret the attempt - which has sadly been carried through - by the countries of northern Europe to alter the conditions of competition within the EU by offering aid to those who use sucrose as a means of increasing the alcohol content of wine, without maintaining aid for the production of must, which is a common practice in Italy and in other Mediterranean countries and which guarantees that our production is of a better quality.
