However, there is one thing we should also bear in mind: we should remember that Belarus is an important neighbour for the European Union in the East and should be treated as such.
We have a certain tendency to treat Russia as the only neighbour to the East and forget about the fact that Belarus should also be a partner for the EU in the East, as it is a large country with great promise.
Mr Lukashenko plays in his own narrow field, ignoring the fact that moderate-sized countries cannot behave like that since supranational capital will not allow it.
author. - (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, the Members of the European Parliament who are concerned with the issue of Belarus and who are monitoring the situation in Belarus are faced with contradictory information.
Speaking as the chairman of the Belarus delegation I would like to see the day when we can put forward a Resolution to the European Parliament that notes with satisfaction that changes have taken place in Belarus to make that country part of the civilised European Community.
We shall, however, support independent citizens' groups and individual citizens from Belarus in their contacts with the European Union in the hope that one day the country will return to normality.
author. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, the use of force against non-governmental organisations, opposition activists and independent journalists in Minsk and other Belarusian cities at the end of March represents a drastic deterioration of the political situation in a country that is already in the grip of an authoritarian and dictatorial regime.
on behalf of the PSE. - (ET) Colleagues, on Human Rights Day, 10 December, the television broadcasting station Belsat began operating in Poland with the aim of broadcasting independent information on what is happening in Belarus, Europe and elsewhere in the world to Belarusians.
The journalists working for Belsat Belarus are fighting for democracy; they visited us in the European Parliament in March and they need our comprehensive support.
This is reminiscent of the methods used by the Communist authorities against the opposition in Poland.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Madam President, in the seventeen years since the changes that took place during the break-up of the Soviet Union and the separation of free independent states, Belarus remains a relic as the last dictatorship in Central and Eastern Europe.
The 19th century British politician Benjamin Disraeli once said: 'No government can be long secure without a formidable opposition'.
As Lukashenko stifles all opposition, let us hope that Disraeli's words prove to be a prophesy for the Belarus regime and that the suppression of the opposition will be the cause of its ultimate downfall. (Applause) (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, here in the European Parliament we keep coming back to the problem of Belarus, a country that, in fact, lies in the centre of Europe, looked at geographically, bordering the European Union.
Today I wanted to devote my speech to just this issue in Belarus.
We had a very strange hacker attack on independent internet media: on Charter 97, Radio Liberty and the Belarus Partisan.
However, what does concern us is that one hears ever more frequently about breaches of human rights in Belarus, which means infringements of democracy.
The regime in Minsk has indicated recently that it would like to improve relations with the European Union.
It is clear that we cannot have a direct political and economic influence on what happens in Belarus but we can have an influence on whether independent information, which will stimulate people in Belarus to fight for independence, will be broadcast there.
Regrettably, renewed pressure on civil society and a number of particularly harsh and disproportionate sentences have ruined this positive atmosphere.
We continue to condemn the political arrests and the way in which civil society and the independent media are being treated.
At the same time, we must make Belarus understand that we mean what we say when we propose a partnership subject to progress being made with regard to respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
I shall now address an issue that we feel most strongly about: contacts with the people of Belarus.
The debate is closed.
