A new framework strategy for multilingualism (debate) The next item is the debate on the report by Mr Joan i Marí, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on a new framework strategy for multilingualism.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the colleagues who helped me draw up this report, and especially the members of the Committee on Culture and Education.
I also wish to thank Commissioner Figeľ, who has kept in contact with us, for his positions on plurality and on the issues related to minority languages, etc.
I would like to mention in particular Vicent Santaló, a member of the legal staff at the Catalan Parliament, who worked with us until his death last summer.
The main aim of this report is to move forward the concept of plurality in languages.
I am sure we would all like to see a multilingual European society in which the rate of individual multilingualism steadily increases until every citizen has practical skills and at least two languages in addition to their mother tongue.
The experts attending the meeting, representing 22 countries, showed much interest and consensus on taking forward the establishment of that indicator.
The report contains a thorough analysis of our framework strategy to create a multilingual society and acknowledges our commitment to achieving the objectives stated in our communication.
This own initiative report, which, let us remember, is aimed at implementing a new framework strategy for multilingualism, has the virtue of extending the debate that was already begun with the Ebner and Bayona report in 2003 and the Portas report in 2005, on regional and minority languages and on the learning of languages by immigrants.
As for our future, I hope that Article 22 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which requires the Union to respect cultural, religious and linguistic diversity, protects us from any arbitrariness.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (LT) Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the Commission's first communication dealing with multilingualism and setting major objectives for the European Union's linguistic diversity: to promote language learning and a beneficial multilingual economy, as well as to provide all EU nationals with the opportunity to familiarise with the Community laws and other information in their mother tongue.
Today, the European Union represents 450 million people from various ethnic, cultural and linguistic backgrounds.
At least 84% of Europeans agree that each EU national should know at least one foreign language.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (The speaker spoke Irish) I want to thank Mr Joan i Marí for the work he has undertaken.
For these reasons, on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, I tabled an amendment to Article 6 deleting those sections that detract from the idea of multilingualism and which allow the possibility of restricting studies just to five particular languages.
It is precisely this that the report that this Parliament will vote on tomorrow must deal with; offering the 450 million European citizens a wide range of tools to allow them to learn languages and hence to enjoy the immense social, economic and cultural advantages of participating in our great integration project, a project rich in national histories, languages and cultures, which today represents a dream of unity in diversity, benefiting all of the citizens.
We cannot allow language policy to become a source of conflict among the EU Member States or the general public, which is indeed a genuine possibility. . - (LV) I doubt whether adding another 60 languages to the 21 European Union official languages will achieve the goal of true multilingualism espoused by the rapporteur, since it is not possible to give equal weight to the role of the Welsh and the Russian languages.
As part of our culture, languages are not only a technical instrument, but are also important bearers of our heritage, and as a cultural phenomenon they deserve respect and recognition.
The European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages (EBLUL) has been a partner, offering opportunities for other activities within the framework of the new programme.
Recitals E and F and paragraph 3, which I proposed, enshrine the major strategic importance that we should attribute to languages like Portuguese within the framework of European multilingual policy, since they have the particular quality of facilitating direct communication with other parts of the world.
