Annual Report (2007) on the main aspects and basic choices of the CFSP - European Security Strategy and ESDP - The role of NATO in the security architecture of the EU (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Jacek Saryusz-Wolski, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the annual report on the main aspects and basic choices of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) in 2007, presented to the European Parliament in application of point G, paragraph 43 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006, the report by Karl von Wogau, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the European Security Strategy and the European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP), and the report by Ari Vatanen, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the role of NATO in the security architecture of the EU.
Our annual report on the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) has become an important vehicle through which Parliament expresses its strategic view on EU foreign policy.
We regret, therefore, that as in previous years, the CFSP budget is seriously under-funded.
I hope that you will treat this as a possibility to develop more synergy, to strengthen our common voice - the voice of all three actors - and to give more democratic and parliamentary legitimacy to our common goal which is: foreign policy; one voice; European Union.
This civilian side, of course, comes complete with functional democratic control as the civilian operations under the ESDP are funded from the European budget and are therefore scrutinised by the European Parliament.
We have adopted a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the intra-Community transfer of defence equipment and on tendering in the field of security and defence.
The protection of our citizens within and beyond the Union, peace in our neighbourhood, the protection of our external borders, the protection of our critical infrastructures, energy security, the security of our trade routes, the security of our assets at the global level and many other things represent, in reality, individual security interests and common security interests of the European Union.
It is also made very clear that we must concentrate on the geographical surroundings of the European Union.
This will involve the establishment of an autonomous and permanent headquarters in Brussels.
The 27 Member States of the European Union spend EUR 200 billion per annum on defence, and this EUR 200 billion must be better spent than it has been in the past.
We cannot afford to re-invent the wheel 27 times and we are therefore asking you today to ensure that, in future, where the European Union's and the taxpayers' money is spent on defence, it is better spent than it was in the past.
rapporteur. - Mr President, 70 years ago, Mr Chamberlain came back from Munich waving a piece of paper and saying 'peace for our time'.
The EU has been incredibly successful in peacemaking.
Perhaps this is also the time to ask: what are the toxic assets and what are the obstacles to our peacemaking, our raison d'être?
Even if those people do not vote for us, we have to care for them because they are our brothers and sisters in the human family.
We in the EU do not realise what kinds of tools we have in our mosaic composition of 27 countries.
Now is the time to strike while the iron is hot: Il faut battre le fer tant qu'il est chaud, as the French say.
High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy. - Mr President, thank you for inviting me once again to this important debate on the CFSP.
Speaking today, at the beginning of 2009, at the European Parliament, reminds me of where we were 10 years ago, in 1999.
As has been mentioned, more than 20 civilian and military operations are, or have been, deployed on just about every continent, from Europe to Asia, from the Middle East to Africa.
Thousands of European men and women are engaged in these operations, ranging from military to police, from border guards to monitors, from judges to prosecutors, a good range of people doing good for the stability of the world.
I should like to thank Parliament for the support we have obtained over recent years, for the good cooperation that I have always enjoyed from you, the representatives of the citizens of the European Union.
I really feel attached to these values that are represented in the core of all the 27 Member States of the European Union: human rights, the rule of law, international law and effective multilateralism; all those words and concepts are probably a constructive representation of what we are.
This really is what we do and what we are about: values and action and, at the same time, construction of the European Union.
The Security Strategy of 2003 was a basic document that allowed us to map the way ahead.
As you know, we have updated it in cooperation with the Commission and Parliament in 2008.
That document does not replace the 2003 document but it certainly reinforces it and brings it up to date, incorporating the threats and challenges that we face in the world in which we are living today, from climate change to terrorism, from energy security to piracy.
Let me say a word about piracy because that relates to our youngest operation, Atalanta.
And so I think that what we are doing, in having military and civilian cooperation at the strategic planning level, is very important.
That was stressed very much at the December European Council and I would like to thank the three rapporteurs for having made this point clearly.
We still have problems, as you know, because this relationship has not been able to overcome some of the difficulties we have in really cooperating in operations with NATO that fall outside the framework of Berlin Plus.
Without any doubt, this is going to be one of the most important issues facing us in 2009.
I have had the opportunity to meet Richard Holbrooke already a couple of times, and General Petraeus.
We are going to re-examine this concept in the coming weeks and it will be very good if, by that time, we are ready to respond in a constructive manner to a very important problem on which we are engaged, the European Union is engaged, the Member States are engaged, and I think we should maintain this engagement.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I appreciate this opportunity to participate once again in this comprehensive debate on foreign and security policy matters.
Let me thank the authors of the three reports, which are the basis of today's debate.
Not only do we need to speak with one voice, but we also need to act together in a coherent and coordinated way.
In Afghanistan, we have given a prominent place to security sector reform and governance within our overall assistance strategy.
Since 2007, the Commission has embarked on a new programme reforming the justice sector.
The Commission is also the main paymaster for the running costs of the Afghan police - over EUR 200 million to date since 2002.
In Georgia, additional EU post-conflict financial support is being provided.
In Kosovo, the Commission has played its role in getting the EULEX Kosovo mission staffed and equipped in time.
In addition to ongoing assistance, we will this year prepare a study, which should identify means to advance Kosovo's political and socio-economic development, and its progress towards integration with the European Union.
Furthermore, we are supporting the training of 850 Chadian police by the UN mission MINURCAT through the Instrument for Stability with EUR 10 million.
We are also facilitating the voluntary return of Chadian IDPs and refugees and providing EUR 30 million in humanitarian assistance.
In the ESS report, it is rightly said that the links between internal and external EU policies have become more pronounced, which is clearly essential when we are considering issues such as energy security and climate change, or the focus on the security and development nexus and recognition of the importance of long-term poverty reduction as a means to reducing security threats.
We must continue to bring this message to the people, also on issues such as terrorism, and we have to say that it is firmly founded on respect for human rights and international law.
I was pleased to note that the EP report on the ESS stressed the need to further implement UN Security Council resolutions 1325 and 1820 on women and conflict.
Turning to energy, the gas crisis affecting the EU this year was unprecedented in its effect.
The transatlantic link remains fundamental to our common security, and here we will soon be working with President Obama on issues that are of high priority.
So far, EUR 220 million have been committed for 59 actions worldwide in 2007 and 2008, with the main share in Africa, followed by Asia and the Middle East, plus Kosovo and Georgia.
Let me say that we, through the Instrument for Stability, and in close cooperation with the Council secretariat, are engaged in a number of activities and are playing an increasingly important role in providing training for mission staff on procurement and financial administration and on ESDP-related training for civilian response teams.
We have trained 600 police experts on civilian crisis management in line with UN training standards, so that the robustness, the flexibility and the interoperability of the EU police elements have been improved.
I would like to add - and I think it is a very important point, for instance on Afghanistan - that we also need to ensure that the terms and conditions of service for seconded staff from Member States and contracted staff are sufficiently attractive to bring forward qualified candidates in sufficient numbers to staff our missions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the annual report (2007) on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy, I would like to emphasise some of the important issues from the viewpoint of the Committee on Budgets.
Secondly, I would like to discuss the transfer of appropriations between different budget chapter headings within the common foreign and security policy.
The Commission could, however, improve transparency and, hence, democratic scrutiny in the field of the common foreign and security policy, by informing Parliament of internal transfers in good time.
This is particularly important because the majority of common foreign and security policy missions, such as, in particular, the European Union's monitoring mission in Georgia and EULEX in Kosovo, are politically sensitive.
Furthermore, I believe that it will only be possible to establish Europe as a 'power' if this is done by asserting itself, not against the United States, but alongside the United States, as two partners who share the same vision of the world and have a mutual respect for each other.
Mr President, it is not true of the Council, but we here in Parliament and, as a result, also the Commission, are edging towards the finishing straight for this electoral term.
For that reason, I think it makes sense that we should act not merely as the accounts clerk checking the balance sheet of the European security and defence policy's progress, but in a much more fundamental capacity.
The European security and defence policy has only been in existence for around ten years, we should remember, and the document on the security strategy was only produced in 2003.
The second point that I, as a social democrat, would like to address, relates to something for which neither the European Union nor NATO is responsible, but which affects us all as Europeans.
We, as social democrats, are very pleased to hear that things that we have put forward are now being implemented in connection with changes in the United States.
Hillary Clinton said last week that further decisions at the US end will be taken in the context of what happens in Iran.
I should first and foremost like to thank the three rapporteurs for the way in which they have taken the opinions of the liberal shadow rapporteurs into consideration when writing their reports.
Finally, there is a plea for complementarity between the strategies of the European Union and NATO in relation to defence and security which, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely vital.
Therefore, there is no alternative to cooperation between the European Union and NATO.
There is no alternative to a greater engagement of Europe and the USA in matters of international security.
My group insists that we, as the European Union, must clearly set out this objective in international politics.
Otherwise, what will happen is that, in a few months time, the US administration will be more forward looking than us in the European Union and will decide, in bilateral talks with Russia, on crucial security strategy positions without European power - political power, conflict-prevention power - being able to have any influence on this re-stabilisation of transatlantic security policy.
The von Wogau report even lends its retrospective support to the dreadfully overpriced Eurofighter programme.
The Vatanen report calls for permanent structures of cooperation between the EU and NATO.
NATO wants to hold celebrations of its 60-year existence in Strasbourg, Baden-Baden and Kehl.
We will therefore be voting against these two reports.
Paragraph 25 of this Saryusz-Wolski report therefore welcomes the extension of the mandate of the EU police mission in the Palestinian regions.
If they are pursuing a viable Palestinian state, law and order must first be restored on the West Bank. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would argue that the Atlantic Alliance is an obsolete defence instrument and that in certain recent cases it has not in fact helped relations, for example, with Russia.
I believe that we should maintain our relations with Russia and use them to pave the way for a privileged partnership.
The rapporteurs of the various reports have said that it is true that we have problems with resources and with means, and that better utilisation of national resources could be a good route for us to take.
However, I would say that we also have available to us some means of which we are not making the best possible use, and I would like to highlight this for you.
I believe that it was a good idea to create the European Defence Agency by agreement of the European Council, without the need to apply or adopt the Treaty of Lisbon.
I believe that the Agency can carry out great work in coordinating national policies, to give greater added value to all policies that are put in place.
I would also like to say that in recent weeks, our strategic relationships with the United States and with the Russian Federation have taken great steps forward.
I believe that Europe - the European Union - is a civilian power with military means, which is very different from a military power, and I believe that this should continue to be the case.
I should like to say in particular, however, that 60 years of NATO have meant 60 years of peace and freedom for my generation: this should be noted.
If we now succeed in strengthening EU foreign, security and defence policy at a time when multilateralism is increasing again - as the High Representative, Mr Solana, has just said - that is, if we manage to incorporate our vision of preventive measures and soft power into a common transatlantic strategy to a greater extent at this time of multilateralism, we shall have a good future ahead.
At the same time, France's return to military integration strengthens Europe's position.
For this reason, we should use our vision of military capabilities with an emphasis on soft power and prevention to tackle a new agenda, one that had already existed, but which became clear in Munich, for President Obama's policies make it possible for us to enter a new era of disarmament negotiations.
However, until now, there was no member in both organisations willing to give up the NATO security guarantee, even if the EU is putting weight behind its defence and security effort and has introduced its equivalent of Article 5 of the Washington Treaty: the solidarity clause in the Lisbon Treaty.
On the question of the integration of our forces, progress is feeble, and I cannot think that colliding French and British submarines is quite what we had expected! (PL) Mr President, when there are too many Presidents, there are, in fact, none at all.
I think this is an absolutely fundamental question and I believe that it will be a specific banner of the European Union, not only for its nearest neighbours, but also for countries that lie a long way beyond Belarus, Ukraine or Georgia. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my thanks go to the three rapporteurs.
While the United States spends trillions of dollars on security, we in Europe are slow or idle in developing our own strategy.
We cannot build European capabilities by shutting down our own factories. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in principle I am certainly in favour of the idea of a European army, but we must define what kind of army it would be and with what limits.
It must also be said that the alliance with the United States is clearly an alliance that very often brings great problems.
The immediate problem is that the EU's ambitions are now beginning to contaminate NATO, and I am seriously concerned that this will affect the way the 60th anniversary goes.
It is, therefore, essential to build a common foreign policy, to include a security and energy policy, and therefore also a common policy towards Russia.
This will create a clear framework not only for talks between the EU and Russia, but also for bipartite talks with individual Member States.
In developing this policy, a very important role should be granted to the European Parliament, in view of the mandate it has obtained in democratic elections, and of which it may be proud. (EL) The report on the role of ΝΑΤΟ in the European Union has been used as an excuse to slip in the question of Cyprus's joining the Partnership for Peace and ΝΑΤΟ.
We call on you to support Amendments 22, 23 and 24 and to vote against those points which constitute intervention in the internal affairs of a sovereign state.
Indeed, I support adopting a new transatlantic agenda and bringing about a new set of Euro-Atlantic institutions, resulting finally in a comprehensive transatlantic common market.
Ari Vatanen has urged the involvement of all EU and NATO members in closer cooperation, regardless of which organisation they belong to.
Another very important point is that we draw on the same pool of national resources.
Jacek Saryusz-Wolski has said that the CFSP is seriously underfinanced, so it is crucial to avoid duplication and to increase efficiency.
Of course, the Treaty of Lisbon, so frequently criticised, would bring the great benefit of enabling us to work together a bit more, for example, in the matter of energy policy and of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, to address effectively the dangers and risks of this world.
The new United States Government under President Obama is pleased that this common European policy exists, as it means that the United States has a partner in tackling a number of these problems.
It has to be said that despite the will shown regularly by over two-thirds of our fellow European citizens, as you said, some progress has been made over ten years, I will grant you that, but it has to be said also that this Europe still does not exist.
There was, and there still is, a need for the presence in Gaza of a Europe that plays an active role, helping the population to survive and rebuild the country, and helping in the fight against arms smuggling, which has allowed this territory to be transformed into a base for the launching of rockets of all sizes.
Despite the verbal outpourings in Sharm el-Sheikh and Jerusalem, nothing has yet been done in this respect.
Above all, it should accept part of the responsibility for the war on terrorism and should react sharply to any manifestations of terrorism.
These essential but short-term measures cannot, however, take the place of a comprehensive approach to terrorism and of increasing diplomatic pressure on countries such as Pakistan. (PT) In international relations, Portugal abides by the principles of national independence, respect for human and peoples' rights, equality between states, the peaceful resolution of international conflicts, non-interference in the internal affairs of other states and cooperation with all other peoples to bring about the emancipation and progress of humankind.
I would point to the text of Article 7 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic to show how far away the European Union is from these principles.
He is now Chair of the Subcommittee on Security and Defence, and, when he writes a report saying that the European Union needed its own armed forces, then we can be confident that that is precisely what the European Union intends to bring about in due course.
Firstly, because NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, was created in 1949 in response to the terrible threat posed by communism towards Western Europe.
With the three reports under discussion today, the European Parliament is giving a very strong indication of how it means to achieve these objectives and guarantee security.
Firstly, there is the report on the Common Foreign and Security Policy, which focuses on security in the Balkans, stability in Africa and peace in the Palestinian territories.
Secondly, there is the report on cooperation with NATO, with its clear emphasis on closer cooperation between the EU and NATO and on better coordination.
If we have all these objectives in mind, we must support the calls of these reports: for shared research and development, for the development of common standards and for common procurement systems, for example - all with the objective of interoperability.
The new administration has made a very positive start, also symbolically by the announcement to close down Guantánamo.
I think we should work on this issue and try to work together to solve some of the problems with which the Americans are confronted.
The second basic debate this year will be about economic security: are the United States and Europe able together to do things about the crisis or will they try to do it on their own, which will mean a rapid development of protectionist measures?
There, the positive sign is that the Americans have said that they are aware that there should be a political solution as this cannot be solved in a military way.
Then on the disarmament agenda: last December, Mr Solana, you gave a very good speech here in Parliament on your ideas and those of the Council and the Union on promoting an agenda that is positive, by starting to support the Americans and the Russians to renegotiate the START Treaty and to work with the Americans on the ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
I think, however, Parliament is sending a dangerous signal if it insists on strengthening its military organisation and highlights the importance of a military power reliant on NATO in the way proposed in the report.
Cooperation and partnership, democracy and human rights as a guarantee of peace and stability is a viable European model which should be used in all the world's crisis hotspots.
These countries must be allowed to decide themselves on their security policy solutions, without any pressure from outside.
For example, Finland has dealt well with its own defence issues and has been involved in peacekeeping operations in various parts of the world for decades.
I think that this would also have been possible in the South Caucasus but, in my view, the European Union's position prior to the armed conflict was too restrained.
The European Union has a right and a duty to carry out preventive activities and intermediary missions, since the European Union is a project to create peace, a task it has been carrying out for the past 50 years.
Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction with the inclusion of paragraph 33 in the report by Mr von Wogau, since in my country, events in the Caucasus and growing nationalism in our neighbour state are giving rise to grave concerns.
We need institutional, financial and operational instruments to achieve these objectives.
We subsequently saw wishes being replaced by visions, strategies, political will and capabilities, which also prompted us into action, not just on a European level, but also on a global level.
Ten years ago, we were still largely immersed in our own concerns.
I agree that we have reached a new stage as regards our common policy and would like to point out two issues in this regard.
I firmly believe that we need to be very attentive to the possible political consequences of the crisis, in particular, those which may arise if we face an even deeper monetary crisis.
Secondly, over the course of a number of years, I have witnessed the surprising fact that many of our partners want the European Union to have a uniform foreign policy and defence identity which is better defined and more powerful.
We therefore need to reassess and improve relations between the European Union and ΝΑΤΟ in order to address common threats, such as terrorism, the spread of weapons of mass destruction, the increase in international piracy and the new problems caused by climate change.
At the same time, however, I consider that this is the right time for us to confirm the role of the UN Security Council as the basic guarantor of international peace and security.
There is now an urgent need to reform the organisation and we have undertaken to advance this reform, so that the UN can respond more effectively to its important task.
Today's ratification of the Lisbon Treaty in the Czech Parliament marks a step change for European defence and security.
In my opinion, the creation of a joint foreign and security policy cannot be achieved in the absence of dialogue with Russia.
The European security agency, which brings together the US, NATO, the OSCE and international disarmament agreements, should include dialogue with Russia as well.
I would therefore like to call on both the Council and the Commission to adopt an open and constructive position towards possible negotiations between the EU, the US and Russia on the renewal of transatlantic dialogue on security matters based on the Helsinki process.
Those political leaders who are delaying the ratification process of the treaty are weakening the development of the common European Union foreign and security policy.
Secondly, I would like to emphasise the question of human rights in the development of EU external policy.
The policy should support international law - international humanitarian law, liberal democracy and the rule of law.
They are a means to build interoperability with our external partners.
However, we should not make the scope of our external policy from exporting our values.
On the contrary, we have to learn to operate in a diversified world and even to respect the other's right to be wrong.
The international institutions and international law of today were shaped and created in a completely different world.
I believe, therefore, that the European Union should support the idea of a new conference on security and cooperation in Europe in a larger Europe - from Vancouver to Shanghai, not only to Vladivostok - in order to create a new space of security, of freedom and of cooperation.
I think that this should be one of our top priorities, and we should not be afraid that others perhaps have other ideas on that. (ES) Madam President, first of all I wish to express my general support for the three reports that we are debating.
Fourth, I would like to say that the Treaty of Lisbon - about which, as has been said today, there is good news that it may be ratified soon - will doubtless be a much greater and much better tool in his hands and in those of the European Union to turn the Union into what it should be: a global actor, in the full sense of the word.
Our principle of human security is one which obliges us to respond to the humanitarian crisis, but it also obliges us to respond and tell Israel that enough is enough and that no more can Europe turn a blind eye to the abuse of the Palestinian right to self-determination.
Declarations that Europe and the USA are committed to a two-state solution, which includes a sovereign and viable Palestinian state, are not really worth the paper they are written on unless we say 'stop' to Israel in relation to settlements.
We are at an historic juncture when transatlantic cooperation has become vital with a view to jointly drawing up a new security strategy for the European Union and the new strategic concept for NATO.
At the NATO summit held in Bucharest in April 2008, the allies welcomed the political role which the European Union can have if it develops an action capability in the area of security and defence.
Moreover, the ambition of the CFSP, in this case in Georgia, will be judged against our courage finally to send peacekeeping forces to stabilise a region that we have included in our neighbourhood policy. (RO) In the three reports which we have debated today, I have come across some relevant, useful points for defining the European Union's future policies as a global player.
I would like to make three observations.
We must capitalise on the current climate in relations with the US to open up a new chapter in this area to boost our power at a global level.
Kosovo is now in a phase of 'supervised independence', according to the EU's special representative, Peter Faith.
It is true that the budget has been reduced this year, but this should, we hope, not be an impediment to our political ambitions in civilian ESDP, provided that there are no new significant missions this year.
This is also recognised in our 2008 report on European security strategy (ESS), that we both mentioned before.
I would like to say that this is the second time that we have had a debate of this nature in the European Parliament, an almost three-hour discussion on European security.
Yes, we do, but we have different practices and this axis of values vis-à-vis interest is also present, and the best example is how to deliver it in Central Asia: it was present in the debate on the Central Asia strategy.
For that reason it can be an integral part of European integration.
In my opinion, the next step must be to produce a work on the implementation of the security policy, a white paper on the security policy.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I shall just repeat what President Wilson said in 1917 and what, for example, our honourable colleague Mr Swoboda said half an hour ago: the nation alone cannot solve problems.
Wars come and go if there is this kind of attitude, but we must build peace actively.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 19 February 2009.
Yet during the Bush-Gore debates just over a decade ago, George Bush said that had he been President he would not have intervened in Kosovo.
Neither is NATO the proper answer to the bigger problems facing Finland in the near future, which are mainly economic in nature.
We have new instruments available, such as the Eastern Partnership, which will help us establish a new consolidated approach at a higher level with our partners in the region.
The European Union, while directing its attention to building common military instruments, such as Eurocorps, the European Air Transport Fleet and the permanent EU Operations Headquarters, must not, however, forget about other threats which are no less important.
The European Union is an increasingly important facilitator at regional and global level.
The European Union must have a common security policy capable of supporting the democracies within its borders and the partnerships with the countries neighbouring it. 2.
The European Union must project the image of being a unitary whole and needs a rapid-reaction force capable of intervening at any time to support peace, democracy and human rights. 3.
The European Union must consolidate its position globally and continue to act as a facilitator for stability and balance between the major powers in the world.
The all-round intensification of cooperation and partnership, the reasonable use of resources and the avoidance of duplication, an appeal to members of both to be more flexible, goal-oriented and pragmatic - this report contains everything that we in Europe, and also in the European Parliament, have always emphasised in our positions.
It requires both a serious amount of financial investment and, in particular, an effective European foreign and security policy.
With this goal in mind, we must make every effort to provide our Common Foreign and Security Policy with the coherent and effective structure that it so desperately requires in order to achieve tangible results.
There is a highly aberrant and dangerous position included in the report which, on the one hand, talks about the security interests of the EU while, on the other, criticising Russia for defending its own perfectly legitimate security interests in the Caucasus.
Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are discussing three reports relating to security and defence in this House is an expression of our great political responsibility to the citizens of Europe on the eve of the NATO summit.
The established practice of adopting resolutions on the main aspects and decisions of the Council report on common foreign policy and security is an excellent opportunity to appeal to Member States to apply this practice at national level.
It is especially important to develop independent academic capacity for analysing and assessing European security and defence policy in tandem with national security policies.
This will form the basis for a public debate on ESDP through a network of analysis centres based in the Member States.
We must encourage Member States to conduct a joint strategic review in the field of security to establish a sound basis for interaction between the EU and NATO in the process of developing a new strategic concept for NATO in the context of ESDP.
