I believe it is proper at the end of each Presidency for the President-in-Office of the Council to come to Parliament to give us a final assessment of that Presidency.
I hope that the meeting on the 21 December will be of sufficient interest to merit the work and the cost of arranging it. &#160;&#160; The beginning of November brings memories of events in our history that we Europeans should never forget because, to a certain extent, they tie in with some of the events we are experiencing at the moment.
A week ago, on 9 November, we celebrated the fifteenth anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall and with it the Soviet empire, which has led to the unification of the continent within the European Union.
On 11 November we also celebrated the armistice that marked the end of that drama, of that great civil war amongst Europeans.
On 9 November we also celebrated the international day against fascism and anti-Semitism in memory of that night which marked the beginning of the institutionalised persecution of a people on the grounds of race.
This is an unacceptable situation and I feel that you must ask the President-in-Office of the Council to enlist the support of our Ambassadors in Tehran to help ensure that human rights are respected.
As a result of this dioxin food scandal, over 200 livestock holdings have already closed in Holland, as have numerous holdings in Belgium and Germany.
Firstly I would like to associate myself entirely with the remarks of my colleague from Northern Ireland, Mr Nicholson, with regard to the atrocious situation that has befallen Annetta Flanigan, a lady who has given selfless service to Afghanistan.
I therefore dissociate myself, on behalf of the victims in my country, from the eulogy to a confederate of world terrorism. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as you know, the European Commission has proposed the adoption of a regulation to establish a pre-accession assistance mechanism (ΙΡΑ).
Some of these bans date back 40 years or so and they do not take account of modern treatments.
It is the intention that we look after it together, but also to ensure that the Natura 2000 network receives sufficient financial resources to protect European biodiversity, because that is desperately needed.
I would invite all Members of this House to walk past the flower box and contemplate the importance of nature and Natura 2000. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the worsening situation in Darfur.
According to the latest figures from the World Health Organization, up to 450 people are dying there each day.
The response to such a dire situation should be prompt and effective.
Secondly, the European Union should use all its weight in highlighting this crisis at the meeting of the UN Security Council in Nairobi.
Twenty-one territorial associations are active in Germany, and they are openly anti-Polish and anti-Czech.
Under an act passed in Germany in 1953, every German evicted from territories that belonged to the Reich or the Habsburg Monarchy before 1914 is to be considered a displaced person, with the status of displaced person being hereditary.
I appeal to the European Parliament to look into this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday 7&#160;November, Sébastien Briard died when he was run over by a train carrying highly radioactive nuclear waste.
However, for the last 13 years, Dow Chemicals – the American owners of the Union Carbide factory – have ignored a summons to face charges of culpable homicide in the Indian courts.
I therefore propose that this House hold a debate on the role of the Central Bank.
General elections will be held in Romania on 28 November.
On 25 October, one of the Hungarian minority organisations was deprived of its right to run in the elections based on a discriminatory Election Act, the involvement of the police, and the intimidation of certain people.
As you know, on 2 November, the Dutch filmmaker and critical columnist, Theo Van Gogh, was brutally murdered by an Islamic extremist.
We should not avoid a debate about Islam in Europe, even if it were to unite all moderate forces, religious or otherwise, in order to isolate and fight extremism and racism.
After all, the events in the Netherlands could occur anywhere in Europe, and the Netherlands and its citizens could really do with the EU’s solidarity and support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to condemn the fact that yesterday, within European Union territory, specifically in the Spanish city of San Sebastián, Batasuna, a political group which is banned for being part of ETA’s network, held an event which amounted to a celebration of, and an apology for, terrorism, and I wish to express my regret at the fact that neither the Basque autonomous government nor the central government took any measures to prevent that illegal act from taking place.
The second issue I should like to raise concerns the series of raids that have been carried out by FBI agents against 21 independent media outlets, most of them in the European Union.
I hope that the authorities here can seek some explanation for these actions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks the Government of the People’s Republic of China has invited the groups in the European Parliament to send delegations for talks.
As you know, he was awarded the Sakharov Prize in 2002 and, as recently as last year, was prevented four times by Fidel Castro’s regime from coming here to take part in a debate with us on the terrible human rights situation in his country, Cuba.
It was destroyed not only materially, but also intellectually and spiritually.
Current trends in the European Union promote a world in which people live without homelands and without religion, and where patriotism, culture and language have become almost completely devalued.
