The presidency intends, on the basis of these deliberations, to produce a revised text and to present it to the Council during its meeting on 19 April 2007.
I can in fact do no more than repeat that the actual step we intend to take on 19 April - that being the submission of a revised draft of the framework decision - is an important step forwards.
At their informal meetings between 14 and 16 January in Dresden, the ministers of justice and internal affairs agreed that consideration of the issue of violent videos and games would initially take the form of a review of the various national rules and regulations on the subject, the intention being that the planned inventory of national rules currently in force should serve as the basis for a comparison of the protection standards, interventions and sanctions available, and afford the Member States some insight into which system might be best.
That is of course permissible, and we are happy to take that on board, but we will - and I am sure that you will understand this - have to obtain information about other systems, some of which work and some of which do not, before we can come to a decision on a proper common approach for the whole of the EU.
The Council has, however, received information concerning the transposition of the 2003 framework decision on corruption in the private sector into UK law.
The Council is reviewing, in accordance with Article 9 of the framework decision, the degree to which the Member States have adopted legislation implementing it.
The first is to work diligently to implement effective population-based organised cervical cancer screening programmes in accordance with the EU Guidelines on Quality Assurance in Cervical Cancer Screening, together with professionally organised public health education programmes to ensure that all women take full advantage of the services that are available to them.
In its conclusions on women's health on 2 June 2006, recorded in Official Journal C 146 of 22 June 2006, the Council acknowledged that cervical cancer is a disease exclusively occurring in women, something also stated in the text of the statement.
The German Presidency is determined to broker a final agreement between the Council and your House ensuring the implementation of the programmes with effect from 1 January 2008.
In fact, estimates indicate that about 32 000 cancers in women could be prevented by this vaccine.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) Mr Posselt, in its conclusions of 11 December 2006, the Council assured Croatia of its recognition of the country's progress, whilst emphasising that the accession negotiations had started well and results were starting to emerge.
As the Presidency has told Croatia, including within the framework of the third meeting of the Stabilisation and Association Council on 6 March, the Croatian Government should pay particular attention to accelerating its reform of the judicial system and of the public administration.
The Council welcomes the fact that Croatia is continuing to cooperate unconditionally with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, and emphasises that it must do so also in future.
The Council has already completed the screening process for 22 negotiating chapters.
In addition, both parties' negotiating positions on Chapter 7 - intellectual property law - have been submitted, and this is expected to be opened shortly.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) Mr Posselt, at the very least, you can be assured that Croatia will receive absolutely fair treatment.
I would prefer to avoid apportioning blame, Mr Paleckis.
The Council is monitoring the humanitarian and social situation in Zimbabwe very closely.
The Presidency reacted immediately to the violent break-up of a peaceful, church-sponsored rally in Harare on 11 March 2007, during which one participant was killed, several were injured and many were arrested, with a statement.
deputising for the author. - Thank you, President-in-Office, for your response.
We all know about the human rights abuses that have taken place - they have been well catalogued over the last few months - but there are also the effects on the human population: 3.5 million refugees have left Zimbabwe.
According to the most up-to-date information, the 14 persons who had been arrested but not injured - having, as required, appeared in court - were then sent home again, since the court evidently realised that there was no case to answer against them.
Subject: Article 301 of the Turkish Criminal Code For the entire period preceding the funeral service of the murdered Armenian journalist Hrant Dink (Istanbul, 23 January 2007) the thousands of demonstrators following his coffin were calling for the abolition of Article 301 of the Turkish Criminal Code concerning 'denigration of Turkishness'.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) The European Union reacted immediately to the tragic news of the murder of Hrant Dink.
In its statement, the Presidency expressed its conviction that the Turkish authorities will identify and arrest the persons responsible for this abominable murder as quickly as possible, and that Turkey will steadfastly continue along the path towards fully realising freedom of expression.
deputising for the author. - (EL) Mr President, I should like to inform you that just yesterday the public prosecutor instituted proceedings for denigration of Turkishness against Attila Yayla, a professor of political sciences, who was suspended from the University of Gazi in Ankara because he called Kemalism a backward ideology.
I fear that we are confining the issue solely to the tragic case of the murder of Hrant Dink.
