Hangings in Iran The next item is the debate on six motions for a resolution on hangings in Iran.
The number of executions in Iran is currently totally out of control: according to official communications from the Iranian authorities, 29 hangings took place in one day at Evin prison in Tehran.
The regime does not respect minors or anyone's rights and we are now facing the possibility, announced by the US authorities, of the handover of Camp Ashraf, where almost 4 000 Iranians are being protected under the Fourth Geneva Convention, in accordance with the status that was granted by the US authorities themselves.
author. - Mr President, the brutal theocratic regime in Tehran seems to take a perverse pleasure in shocking the world and defying the civilised standards that characterise most other countries.
As a Union, we should be unwavering in our condemnation of Iran's appalling human rights record, just as we are of its efforts to enrich uranium for nuclear weapons.
author. - Mr President, despite past resolutions of this Parliament and of the United Nations General Assembly, and contrary to basic moral and ethical considerations, the theocratic, totalitarian regime in charge of Iran continues to subject its citizens to - amongst other evils - the death penalty.
author. - (DE) Mr President, once again, it is necessary for us to talk about human rights violations in Iran, and it is no time at all since we last spoke about it.
Just three months ago, we drafted a resolution in this House on the executions in Iran.
Only a week ago, an 18-year-old man, Behnam Saree, was executed in public.
Since 1990, according to Amnesty International, no other country anywhere in the world has executed so many minors.
In 2007 and 2008 alone, 15 young people were executed, and the situation of under-age offenders who face execution has reached an unacceptable, indeed a critical level in Iran.
The situation in Iran's prisons is critical as well: since 25 August, several hundred Kurdish political prisoners have been on hunger strike in Iranian prisons.
However, our issue with Iran is not just about stoning, but about the very existence of the death penalty because the number of people executed in Iran is still one of the highest in the world.
There are many cases that we should mention here, but please allow me to talk about at least one: that of the activist and defender of minority rights, Yaghoub Mehrnehad, an ethnic Baluchi and executive director of the 'Voice of Justice' Youth Association, who was executed on 4 August after having publicly confronted local officials about their attitude.
Older people are executed for offences committed when they were 13 or 14 years old, and minors are executed too.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, it is really urgent to demonstrate to the Iranian regime our strong condemnation of the increased number of executions there and also our support for democratic change in that country.
But we are also concerned about the fate of almost 4 000 members of the Iranian opposition who are residing in Camp Ashraf in Iraq.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, it seems to me that, whenever a religion of any kind gains absolute power anywhere in the world, it is just as brutal and intolerant as any secular dictatorship.
Furthermore, Iran provides the clearest evidence ever that the issue of human rights ought to be an integral part of our international and common security policy, because lying at the root of Iran as a nuclear threat there is the day-to-day violence being carried out against Iranian citizens by that regime, to which we must turn our attention.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I believe that everyone in this Chamber will agree with me that, when reading about the individual cases of violation of human rights reported in this resolution, you feel that it cannot be referring to events taking place in this century.
But this is the deplorable truth about the situation in a country that has fallen back to medieval, primitive brutality in the attempt to suppress its own people - a people that longs for democracy, liberty and reform.
We, the western democracies, cannot negotiate for ever with the criminal regime in Tehran in the naive hope that our weak negotiators could ever obtain anything from a regime that does not understand and respect the modern world and its values and that apparently hates its own people as much as it hates us.
The theocracy in Teheran clearly has nothing but contempt for democracy in Europe.
All the same, it is good that Parliament has again condemned the executions in Iran in no uncertain terms.
It notes rightly that more people are executed in Iran than in any other country apart from China.
We should therefore be clear on one point: this House is not the place for ideological disputes, even on the issue of Iran.
There are no Asian human rights, and there are no Islamic human rights which give people less security and might condone the death penalty in one form or another.
The death penalty may not be imposed on individuals who were under the age of 18 when they committed an offence.
In July of this year, 24 organisations for the protection of human rights from all over the world called on Iran to suspend use of the death penalty for minors and also to suspend all use of the death penalty on its territory.
Six minors have been executed in Iran so far this year: that brings the total since 2005 to 26.
We cannot allow the people currently in Camp Ashraf to be handed over to Iran, as the rule of law does not apply in that country. (PL) Mr President, the situation regarding human rights in Iran is not improving.
Two people were hung yesterday, in Arak and in Boujerd, and many more are waiting for their sentences to be carried out.
Several thousand opponents of the Ayatollahs' regime are currently held in Camp Ashraf.
The planned change in the status of these forces means that as stated in the motion for a resolution, a long-term solution for the Iranian refugees resident in that camp must be found as soon as possible.
Let's not forget that, in Iran, young people under the age of 18 years are subject to the death penalty, although the international rights, acknowledged under signature by Iranians, do not allow such atrocities.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think this is certainly one of the saddest questions of human rights violations, namely the death sentence - and particularly the death sentence carried out on young people.
On 26 August Mr Zaree was put to death at the prison in Shiraz.
Information suggests that there are over a hundred minors on death row in Iran.
The vote will take place at the end of the debate.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - This Parliament supports the total abolition of the death penalty around the world.
We urge the Majlis to urgently amend legislation in order to ensure that no one is executed for crimes committed when less than 18 years of age.
