&#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;The next item is the oral question to the Commission (O-0036/2005 - B6-0168/2005) by Mr&#160;Sifunakis, on combating doping in sport. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's oral question and the related motion for a resolution by the Committee on Culture and Education on combating doping in sport follows on from extended efforts by the European Parliament.
I would merely remind you that the first initiative by the European Parliament on doping was the resolution of 7&#160;September 2000 on the Commission communication on a Community support plan to combat doping in sport and that the last major initiative was the public hearing organised by our committee just last November, entitled 'Drug-taking in sport: obstacle to the ideal of athleticism', at which a large number of invited experts gave their views.
Today's oral question relating to the motion for a resolution is the result of these previous initiatives and of the acute concern in our committee about the proportions which doping has taken on today in a bid to increase athletic performances.
I should like here to comment in particular on the fact that chemical substances are used not only by professional athletes, but also by a large number of amateurs.
We are, I believe, all in agreement on these issues.
Consequently: - taking account of the fact that the issue of doping is primarily a public health issue, - likewise taking account of the fact that the Constitutional Treaty provides an appropriate legal basis to draw up and implement Community action, - and again given the fact that, according to a survey by Eurobarometer, four out of five citizens believe that the European Union should take action to combat doping, · we call on the Commission to tell us what initiatives it intends to take today to combat doping in sport: · How does it intend to inform European public opinion, especially young people involved in amateur sports, about the very serious dangers inherent in the use of banned pharmaceutical substances? · How does it intend, especially in cooperation with the Member States, to point out these dangers through education, given that raising awareness among young people, who are the most vulnerable group, starts at school? · Does the Commission intend to finance, within the framework of the Seventh Framework Programme, research programmes into new, effective methods for detecting the use of banned pharmaceutical substances? · How, finally, does it intend to cooperate with the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), the Council of Europe and the World Health Organisation, as well as with the Member States, in order to guarantee the success of the actions required?
The Commission has taken this task very seriously and has promoted initiatives within its areas of responsibility.
However, the European Community Treaty clearly does not provide for harmonisation in this specific area and, therefore, our actions will have to be guided by the legal framework within which we operate.
In this difficult task, we thank the European Parliament for its continued support, and in particular its Committee on Culture and Education, which has been following this issue very closely.
In 1998, the European Council invited the Commission to submit a Community support plan to combat doping in sport.
The support plan formed the basis for pilot projects for a period of two years on the fight against doping between 2000 and 2002.
The European Parliament actively supported this plan.
Thirdly, the Commission continues to liaise closely with international organisations in this field, in particular the Council of Europe.
This is the way forward, given the absence of a specific legal basis to fight doping in sport.
In particular, it would enable us to promote initiatives on the moral and physical integrity of young sportspeople.
It is, however, important to prepare the implementation of this new provision carefully.
The first point Mr Figeľ mentioned referred to actions in the field of education.
The second point related to actions in the field of information.
In fact, amongst the three studies on doping carried out in 2000-2001, one looked at the possibilities for a pan-European anti-doping campaign.
This drew on experience from campaigns of this nature carried out in some Member States.
To conclude, I would like to thank the European Parliament for its continued support.
It will remain crucial for the Commission’s current and future work in the field of sport and will play a key role to ensure the well-needed progress in the fight against doping. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative by the European Parliament, as expressed in the motion for a resolution on doping by the Committee on Culture and Education, is an important step forward and a direct plea to all the jointly responsible agencies to combat this phenomenon in a more substantive and effective manner.
I feel optimistic about the future, because my tremendous awareness of the war on the scourge which threatens our young people and which has been the subject of questions and speeches in the past is today echoed by my honourable friends.
The Treaty establishing a Constitution allows for more satisfactory implementation of this objective, while the European Union should take account of the problem when adopting and implementing any policies which come within its jurisdiction.
Combating doping in sport must therefore clearly be one of our political objectives, as it is in many of our countries.
I would like to deal with this issue by insisting on the need to provide anti-doping research with a European dimension.
Some countries of the European Union have already included research programmes in their anti-doping plans, both with regard to what may be considered the new doping substances and their effects on the human body, and with regard to the possibility of providing laboratories with better and more appropriate instruments for detecting these substances.
I would like to encourage the Commission to take significant measures in this regard from this point of view.
Furthermore, Mr President, I believe that an initiative of this type would also comply with Article III-282 of the new European Constitution, which talks of developing a European dimension for sport, promoting fairness and equal opportunities in competitions and protecting the moral and physical integrity of our sportspeople. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as we know, sport itself does not have sufficient resources to deal with the problem of doping.
That is why all of us are needed in this important work.
All those involved in the broad field of sport need to be active in support of values that are right and wholesome, all the way from the grass roots to international sports organisations and the official agencies that organise sport in different countries.
The World Anti-Doping Agency, WADA, coordinates and develops the fight against doping worldwide.
The international Olympic movement has been very closely involved in WADA’s administration, but the role that states play has not been so vibrant.
It should be possible for the EU Member States to make a combined effort to strike a better balance with regard to the contributions the various countries make to the work of WADA, thus creating more effective preconditions for it to function efficiently.
With increasing powers in the field of sport, that is to say the Constitution, which will thus provide a future legal basis, the EU should take an active part in the implementation, promotion and support of the obligations under this future agreement.
In the midst of the debate, we should always remember that sport is a positive thing: it promotes human health and well-being. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this resolution is, of course, moving in the right direction.
If we do not have an instrument of this type in the field of doping, in Europe, in the European Union and in the world, then nothing we have said will count for much, as long as we do not have this independent, ongoing medical monitoring. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the real cause of the huge problem of doping in sport is the commercialisation of sport through the capitalist method of production, the objective of which is to increase the profits of the monopoly business groups; the acceptance, in other words, that an athlete may be professional and that there can therefore be professional athleticism.
This is the idea behind the motion for a resolution, and I should like to thank the authors for ensuring that this is the case. &#160;&#160; The EU Constitution refers to sport both as an important educational tool and as a means of fostering social cohesion and a healthy lifestyle.
The EU can participate in the first two areas of this broad-based, concerted effort to combat doping, given that punishing crime is not within the scope of our competences.
At present, only 12 of the 25 EU countries have an accredited laboratory.
I also recommend that the EU Ombudsman create a mechanism enabling European citizens to report any manufacture, trade or consumption of doping substances that they encounter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union has, on many occasions – in resolutions and Council conclusions, in the Helsinki report on sport, in the report by the Committee on Culture and Education, in hearings and so on – made reference to the problem of doping; it has both demanded and taken various courses of action.
The fact is, though, that doping in sport is on the rise.
I therefore ask the Commission to make the investigation of doping a priority in the research work under the Seventh Research Framework Programme and to make additional funding available for it.
The EU’s Constitution will open up new possibilities for sport, among other things, and I cannot but hope that voting for the Constitution will secure us these possibilities.
Sport performs important tasks in society; it must not be brought low by doping and racism, which bring discredit on the work of thousands of enthusiasts. &#160;&#160; Mr President, all those who have so far contributed to this so-called debate by reading out texts have expressed their vehement opposition to doping.
I can do no other than encourage you to ensure transparency in these areas. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this debate, looking at least at the great majority of contributions, has been very valuable.
The Commission believes that prevention is an important facet of our efforts.
Firstly, with regard to relations with federations and with the World Anti-Doping Agency – WADA – Mr Figeľ is keen to develop such relations and has already held a number of meetings to that effect.
Regarding research, as I mentioned, Commissioners Figeľ and Potočnik are working together and we can be hopeful of a good outcome in that regard.
Commissioner Figeľ is committed to this aspect and takes it very much into account.
Our source of inspiration is the Fraisse report adopted by Parliament in 2003.
The Commission follows the work of this body and will continue to do so in the future.
I have also taken note of the suggestion made by Mr Beazley and will forward it to Mr Figeľ.
The Commission welcomes Parliament’s resolution on combating doping in sport.
The Commission has been very active and has been taking initiatives in this field for the last six years, as I pointed out in my introductory remarks.
Parliament’s resolution will help the Commission, in cooperation with Parliament, to continue its work and actions on doping.
Amendment 2, in particular, could contribute to an effective fight against doping. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;The next item is the oral question to the Commission (O-0037/2005 - B6-0169/2005) by Mr&#160;Sifunakis, on the draft UNESCO Convention on cultural diversity. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this oral question by the Committee on Culture and Education and the following motion for a resolution on the draft UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity are the outcome of the acute interest which our committee has in the progress of negotiations on this important text.
The draft UNESCO Convention follows on from the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity made by UNESCO in November 2002, which was a positive step towards international cooperation but which has proved to be an inadequate response to threats to cultural diversity today from the intense globalisation of the market in cultural goods and services.
The UNESCO Convention has as its objective the defence and promotion of the diversity of cultural contents and artistic expressions through appropriate measures and aims to facilitate the development of cultural policies and encourage wider international cultural exchanges.
This Convention must, in our opinion, be a tool of international cooperation in favour of cultural development.
That is why we are insisting that the European Union and its Member States should do nothing during the process of the negotiation and conclusion of the Convention in question to compromise cultural diversity or undermine the ability of governments to support cultural diversity.
We also believe that the Convention must recognise the very important role played by public services, notably public service broadcasters, in efforts to safeguard, support and develop cultural diversity.
The oral question and the motion for a resolution on Unesco follows on from Parliament's report and resolution on the safeguarding and promotion of cultural diversity and the role of the European region, and the international organisations such as Unesco and the Council of Europe.
These were adopted on 2 December 2003 and 14 January 2004 respectively and the rapporteur was Mrs Christa Prets.
Both texts had called on the Commission to inform Parliament regularly, and in particular the Committee on Culture and Education, of the negotiations taking place in Unesco.
Following the provisional Unesco timetable for the negotiations on the future convention, the intergovernmental negotiations were launched in September 2004, and the negotiations on substance started in December 2004, with the first meeting of the Drafting Group.
This meeting was held on 25 January 2005 with members of the Culture Committee, with Mr Schmitt in the chair.
From an EU point of view, the last negotiating session, in February, took place in a good collaborative spirit, on the basis of a Code of Conduct adopted by COREPER on 27 January 2005.
With a single voice, the European Union has become a reference for the debate and a major partner in the negotiation.
The April session of the Unesco Executive Board will have to confirm the convening of a new intergovernmental negotiating session, provisionally scheduled for 25 May to 4 June 2005.
The next session of intergovernmental negotiations is scheduled for 25 May to 4 June 2005, while the Autumn Executive Board is to be held on 13-29 September 2005.
If though, we are to safeguard that cultural diversity around the world, we can only do so together – within the European Union and within UNESCO.
We demand that the Member States and the Commission should do three things in respect of the negotiations.
The reason why October 2005 is so crucial is that we would otherwise be put at a disadvantage in terms of trade law, and there is the risk of UNESCO being too late in producing a legal instrument.
Secondly, we need an effective instrument.
This House has also expressed its view of this convention by voting to adopt the own-initiative report that I produced on the subject.
As Mrs Hieronymi has just said, negotiations are in progress in preparation for UNESCO’s general conference, which is to be held this October.
It is for that reason that this House needs to make its position known in order to be able to influence them.
This is not to be made subject to other international agreements and under no circumstances whatever to the WTO agreements.
The convention must provide for a simple, unitary and binding mechanism for the resolution of disputes, enabling case law on cultural diversity to be developed within international law.
Achievement of these objectives requires that the Commission should take up an explicit position and provide for the best possible coordination among the 25 Member States.
The USA has already managed, to some extent, to destabilise Canada, a country that has always played a leading role in this initiative, while also managing to find new allies in the shape of New Zealand, India and Australia.
This is something for which we are all responsible. &#160;&#160; Thank you Mr President.
Steps to promote global cultural exchange and the draft of the Unesco document addressed today are a major contribution and are our common political and economic investment in the future.
It is because pure market forces and doctrinaire liberalisation put such an approach at risk that it is so important that we should succeed in securing this convention on the protection of cultural diversity as a matter of policy.
I too would like to stress the absolute necessity of our remaining strong and united in these negotiations and of the Member States of the EU truly speaking with one voice.
If we, and our protective agreement, are not to be left standing by the logic of the market and made subject to it, what we need is an effective legal instrument.
That is why the services directive must continue to guarantee the protection of cultural diversity, and that is why it must not apply to these goods. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mrs Murko rightly pointed out in her speech that cultural diversity is intended to defend and protect minorities.
This is the prevailing tendency at international trade negotiations and has surfaced in the EU and in various governments; for example, in the proposal for a directive on the liberalisation of services.
This is why this debate is so important right now.
The resolution is very clear.
The Member States have an obligation to protect cultural diversity; they have an obligation to protect pluralism in the media; and they have an obligation to take action, to invest in creating, producing and distributing cultural goods.
Various exponents of the Committee on Culture and Education, including those who hardly ever participate in its work, use projects such as this one for debates on internal policy that have very little to do with the fact that culture is not a commodity or a market.
Aside from the resolution of which we, as Members of the and of the Independence and Democracy Group are in favour, therefore, I am concerned as to what could be the use of a document such as this in the individual Member States.
We should not forget that the role played by the state as a patron of culture has always been significant, but never crucial.
We should all lament the fact that these topics are not afforded more attention in this House; instead, as happens with all topics that concern society, including in this debate, ideology threatens to be given priority a lot of the time over genuine concern about this diversity.
This is only one example of how a sacrosanct objective such as cultural diversity can serve less noble causes when cultural relativists interpret it in a different way.
The convention under discussion is an important instrument of international cooperation in safeguarding these cultural values.
In order to hold our own on the international stage, we need a mandate, and we need our position to be beyond any doubt.
To the national governments, too, this convention gives a legal framework for taking measures necessary to the protection – and, where necessary, also the promotion – of cultural diversity.
It does, however, improve the international exchange of cultural goods, and fosters diversity.
I want to underline what Mrs Hieronymi and Mrs Trüpel said: within the European Union, too, we have to ensure that the services directive does not apply to audiovisual materials. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Borg for the information he has provided us with on the progress of the negotiation of the Convention on Cultural Diversity.
The Convention on Cultural Diversity must be a genuine instrument for international cooperation, which protects and promotes the diversity of cultural content and artistic expression in the face of the pressures from globalisation and international trade policy.
Furthermore, it must guarantee pluralism in the audiovisual media and acknowledge the fundamental role of public services, in particular broadcasting.
Cultural services and products must be treated both as economic goods, on the one hand, but also as vectors of the identity of peoples, and I would like to stress that their regulation must also take account of their specific characteristics, including those of the workers in the sector.
Its adoption, during the forthcoming Unesco General Conference in October 2005, would allow these objectives to be taken into account in the commercial negotiations of the World Trade Organisation in the field of culture. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the proposed Unesco Convention sets out principles on the sovereignty of States and their right to take the steps that they wish to take as regards culture, but aims as its prime objective to remove it from the jurisdiction of the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
The EC Treaty covers cultural development and respect for national and regional diversity in Article 151.
What we ought to do is to satisfy the Member States – all Member States – in a Europe of national identities that are sometimes in fierce conflict with one another, and that jealously guard their specific characteristics, but a Europe in which the sovereignty of each Member State is completely safeguarded.
The Treaty prohibits any harmonisation of Member States’ legislative and regulatory provisions in this area.
We have so far managed to gain acceptance for our principles in international circles.
Every government should have the right to support cultural creativity and the dissemination of culture in its country without being subject to the sacrosanct requirements of free trade or to the authority of the WTO.
The only effective way of guaranteeing our right to cultural identity and cultural diversity is to make it a universal right recognised by all peoples and defended in the international institutions by their representatives.
The UNESCO Convention must become the international legal instrument of reference on issues of cultural policy.
In general, let me say first of all that the Commission welcomes Parliament’s resolution on cultural diversity and that our views fully correspond.
Parliament’s resolution will help the Commission continue its work on the negotiating process in cooperation with Parliament.
The next meeting is due to be held on 19 April and Mr Figeľ is committed to continuing the dialogue with the committee and to addressing the substance of the ongoing negotiations with the committee.
On issues of substance, we will be particularly attentive to the protection of cultural and national specificities, as also the interests of our media sector.
Linguistic diversity is a pillar of this proposal and the main education and culture programme. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote on this resolution will take place at 12&#160;noon &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on the report (A6-0051/2005) by Mrs Miguélez Ramos on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing measures for the recovery of the Southern hake and Norway lobster stocks in the Cantabrian Sea and Western Iberian peninsula and amending Regulation (EC) No&#160;850/98, and the report (A6-0050/2005) by Mr Morillon on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing measures for the recovery of the sole stocks in the Western Channel and the Bay of Biscay. &#160;&#160; .
As always, our shared commitment to achieving sustainability in fisheries remains unwavering.
Our aim remains common, but our approach may be somewhat different.
With regard to the plan for Southern hake and Norway lobster we have held consultations with parties involved concerning the fisheries that catch these species, often catching them together in mixed fisheries.
We agree that there should be the possibility for state aid to fishermen involved in these fisheries, but these should be applied equitably to all fishermen who may find themselves in similar situations, and should therefore be applied in the context of the European Fisheries Fund.
However, I accept that this limit should be applied from the first year of the plan’s implementation.
After discussions with stakeholders on this point we can now agree to remove the closed areas originally proposed for Nephrops, but we think they should be replaced with other closed areas that are better adapted to protecting the stock.
I agree that Bay of Biscay sole could be moved to a management plan in accordance with its less serious biological state, but Western Channel sole should remain the subject of a recovery plan.
The aim of this proposal is to ensure, in the two regions concerned and within a period of five to ten years, that these stocks are maintained within or rebuilt to safe biological limits.
It has resulted in amendments to the technical provisions proposed by the Commission, but in such a way as, and I quote, ‘to ensure that these stocks remain within safe biological limits’, whilst at the same time stressing, and again I quote, that ‘the objective of the new common fisheries policy is to provide for the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources, taking account of the environmental, social and economic aspects in a balanced manner’.
I believe that Mr Borg's visit to Spain has also been fundamental in terms of rectifying the Commission’s initial position on southern hake and Norway lobster.
I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Miguélez, on her work and on the final result of her report, and everybody who has contributed to it, including the Spanish and Portuguese Governments, both previous and current, and the Members from my group, Mr Fraga and Mr Freitas, for their valuable contributions.
If there are more sole than we expected, we must be able to adapt to the situation and not remain restricted or stuck.
Secondly, calmness in ports and confidence in the future depend a great deal on good work carried out between the fishermen and the scientists.
If it comes out with fish in it, it cannot be claimed that the species is in danger, and they are bringing up more fish than ever.
Neither can we continually argue, in view of the situation.
In this context, in the event of any loss of income suffered by fishermen due to temporary suspensions or fishing restrictions arising from a recovery plan, provision must be made for fishermen to be offered financial compensation aimed at offsetting any consequent loss.
Chairman Morillon and Vice-Chairman Miguélez Ramos both highlight the need to ensure that the socio-economic impact and consequences of recovery plans are measured and addressed, with appropriate compensation.
Let me say very clearly, as I have said many times in the past and will say again at every available opportunity, that the common fisheries policy is not only about fish but also, and most importantly, about fishermen.
Chairman Morillon and Vice-Chairman Miguélez Ramos both refuse the technocratic approach of rebuilding stocks at all cost, preferring instead to suggest ways to ensure that stocks remain within safe biological limits.
We therefore had to table some amendments, which were adopted.
In so doing, we will be avoiding generically restrictive proposals to a problem that was specific and could have been dealt with much more easily. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to express my opinion on the report by Mrs Miguélez Ramos on measures for the recovery of Norwegian lobster and Southern hake in the Cantabrian Sea and Western Iberian Peninsula.
We completely share the Commission’s concerns as regards the need to protect Southern hake and Norwegian lobster stocks in those areas of the Atlantic and we acknowledge that appropriate emergency measures are called for in light of the current state of affairs.
The proposals put forward in the reports before us will enable these species to be rebuilt within ten years, thereby absorbing the social and economic impact.
Accordingly, I am sure that Parliament will give resounding support to this report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteurs, and in particular Mrs Miguélez, because I am going to refer to her report, but not because the report of the chairman of the committee is not magnificent.
We therefore believe that once the scientists have established the biological parameters — and this report includes, for example, the biomass objective to be achieved in order for a population to be considered recovered — the Member States must be allowed a degree of flexibility in achieving this objective in a manner most suited to the characteristics of their fleets.
With regard to the issue of closures, I would refer to what the rapporteur has said; there is no scientific basis for it and, therefore, I would simply call on the Commission and the Council to support the amendments by Mrs Miguélez and the Committee on Fisheries, which introduce a good dose of common sense into this proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to concentrate on the issue of sole stocks.
This regulation aims to recover sole stocks in the Western Channel and in the Bay of Biscay.
The amendments proposed in the committee’s report recognise that management action, rather than drastic fleet cuts, is more appropriate for this stock.
Concerning the proposal for a Council regulation establishing measures for the recovery of the Southern hake and Norway lobster stocks in the Cantabrian Sea and Western Iberian Peninsula and amending Regulation (EC) No 850/98, I can fully agree with 14 of the 26 amendments considered by the Committee on Fisheries.
These are Amendments 2, 4, 10 in part, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 26.
The fishing mortality rate of 0.27 is acceptable because it is consistent with the Implementation Plan of the World Summit on Sustainable Development adopted in Johannesburg in 2002.
Although estimates of biomass of fish stocks are uncertain, observations of stock size above a precautionary level for two years in a row could be a way to signal the need to move from a recovery phase into a long-term management plan.
Concerning Amendment 10, we can, therefore, accept the 35 000 tonnes exit criterion, but not the requirement of a ten-year delay in recovery or the reference to ‘in a sufficient period of time’.
In line with the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Fisheries and Aquaculture, the figure should be retained at 15% rather than 10%, but the 15% could apply in the first year of the plan.
For these reasons, I cannot support Amendment 27.
Management of hake and Nephrops in the Gulf of Cadiz is an important issue given the abundance of juvenile hake in that area.
On the basis of the precautionary principle, greater uncertainty in this area is not a reason to be less cautious, so I cannot support Amendments 1, 8 or 9, which would exclude this area.
If either or both fishing effort and capacity were allowed to increase again once the stocks are recovered, the result would be a decline in the stocks and a reduction in the amount of fish available to the industry.
Turning now to the Morillon report, I am pleased to say I can fully agree with Amendments 7, 16, 17, 18 19, 20, 21 and 22.
For the Western Channel sole, these should be based on the measures already introduced under Annex IVc of the current TAC and Quota Regulation.
I can therefore accept the substance of Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 12 and 13, but only insofar as it relates to Bay of Biscay sole.
I also support the idea of an interim report mechanism as mooted in Amendment 11, as I mentioned when discussing southern hake and Nephrops.
I can also agree with the idea of setting a target fishing mortality rate for Bay of Biscay sole, as in Amendment 15.
However, we should take account of the scientific advice that will be provided by STECF in June on this topic, and I will reserve my position on the right figure to use until I have seen that report.
And while Regional Advisory Councils, where they exist, should be consulted when developing new legislation, the implementation of regulations is the responsibility of Member States.
However, we would certainly have no problem with Member State authorities consulting the Regional Advisory Council, on a voluntary basis, concerning such plans. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I wish them every success, following this welcome from the whole Parliament, in their meetings at the European Parliament, and a good stay in Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in connection with adopting this resolution, we reached agreement in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on using the name ‘the Former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia’ when referring to this country in contexts not concerning the actual debate about the future name.
We thus ensure that we shall vote on the substance of the resolution and that, irrespective of the outcome of the votes, the final result is clear to readers of the resolution.
We can do something about the actual issue of the name when we come to Amendment 6 and Amendment 25. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Samuelsen, I think that these precise details are extremely useful on a subject that is still so sensitive. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to endorse what Mr Samuelsen has said, and, if we agree to this demand, to ask my colleagues to vote ‘yes’ rather than ‘no’ to Amendments 16 and 20, which have to do with the content rather than the name. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three amendments have been tabled on paragraph 32, which have been marked as being identical.
In actual fact, Amendment 13 differs from the other two by only one word.
I therefore call for Amendment 13 to be put to the vote separately from Amendments 1 and 10. &#160;&#160; Before voting on Amendment&#160;13 with the slight semantic difference emphasised by Mr Speroni, we shall first vote on Amendments&#160;1 and 10, which are exactly identical. &#160;&#160; .
The non-proliferation strategy is an essential component in the European Security Strategy.
Not least with reference to ongoing debates on non-proliferation and Iran, we wish to appeal for closer cooperation with our American partners in reinforcing non-proliferation as an instrument. &#160;&#160; Mrs Beer, please could you present the text of the amendment? &#160;&#160; Mr President, the rapporteur has proposed the following: ‘Welcomes existing cooperation with the United States in the fields of non-proliferation’.
Our proposed wording is: ‘Expresses its wish for stronger cooperation with the United States in the fields of non-proliferation’. &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; All the explanations of vote are in writing. &#160;&#160; Despite some good efforts, current fisheries policy still involves the EU buying the right to misuse the natural resources of the poor.
We have therefore chosen to vote against the above-mentioned report in its entirety. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Kuhne’s report deals with the European Security Strategy, and Mr&#160;Brok’s report deals with the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
We are voting against both these resolutions in their entirety because they are aimed at further militarising EU cooperation and turning the EU into a major power speaking with a single voice in international contexts.
The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea showed, for example, in its report that fishing mortality rates had led to the quantities of mature Southern hake and Norway lobster in the Cantabrian Sea and Iberian peninsula being so low that stocks were no longer being replenished through reproduction and were now threatened with collapse.
Given the problem of sustaining certain stocks of Southern hake and the need for their recovery, the fishermen affected must be fully compensated for the loss of income following the paralysis of their fleets.
Once these countries fully comply with the Copenhagen criteria, they should become members.
In the neighbouring country, the resistance movement against the Ottoman Empire before 1912 also used the name Macedonia, and that also became the name of Yugoslavia’s southern federal state between 1945 and 1991.
Meanwhile, Macedonia has been recognised under its real name not only by the US, Russia and China, but also by Slovenia, which is an EU Member State, and by Bulgaria, which will one day be one.
The push for the independence of Kosovo, the discussion of the revision of the Dayton accords and the reference to functional problems in Serbia-Montenegro confirm the new cycle of border changes.
In this regard, among the main threats to global security, it highlights the destructive power of poverty, malnutrition and disease.
The ESS lays down three strategic objectives.
By contrast with what one might expect from a document of this nature, the time spent on identifying threats is kept brief and questions requiring thorough analysis are summed up in short paragraphs, whereas the document devotes much attention to the ways in which to press the European Security Strategy into service.
Either way, we must express our concern at the lack of depth and substance, by contrast with similar documents drawn up by our allies. &#160;&#160; We see the fight against doping in sport as a very important issue.
Citation&#160;E of the motion for a resolution states that the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe provides an appropriate legal basis for drawing up and implementing Community action in the field of sport.
The need to reach certain levels and achieve certain results, imposed by economic – sometimes colossal sums of money are involved – and political interests and mechanisms, which fly in the face of what ought to be the true values and aims of sport, fosters the use of a whole range of illicit substances that are often harmful to the health of sportsmen and women.
The number of doping incidents over the 2004 Olympic Games again demonstrates the need to combat this very real problem.
The Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe provides an appropriate legal basis to draw up and implement Community action in the field of sport.
My colleague, Commissioner Fischer Boel, met the Portuguese Minister of Agriculture, Mr Silva, on 6 April 2005 in relation to this issue.
There are three sets of instruments that are of particular importance in assisting Portuguese farmers.
The second instrument concerns rural development.
At the end of January 2005, the Portuguese authorities requested recognition of the drought as a under Article 39 of Regulation (EC) No&#160;817/2004 and to accept derogations to certain conditions concerning the agri-environment measure.
Portugal may decide to compensate farmers through state aid for income losses resulting from severe drought.
Over a period of three years, up to EUR 3 000 per farmer can be granted in aid without the Commission being notified, provided that, among other conditions, the total amount for the period does not exceed EUR&#160;17&#160;832&#160;000. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we called for this debate, we were naturally counting on Parliament’s commitment, and, at this point, I should like to express my appreciation to all of the political groups for Parliament’s show of solidarity.
The drought in Portugal is extremely serious, as we know, and as Mr Borg has just described.
According to available data, even with average rainfall over the coming months – and the forecasts do not suggest in any way that this will be the case – we could be facing a situation that only happens once every 40 years.
Mr President, I should like to express my gratitude for the displays of solidarity and support from all Members to whom I have had the opportunity to explain the situation.
I should also like to say how pleased I am to have had the opportunity to table this joint proposal, endorsed by the main political groups in Parliament.
In some regions, ground water levels are less than 20% of the average of the past 40 years.
I therefore call on you to vote in favour, secure in the knowledge that, as the Commissioner just said, the Commission will be taking the matter seriously. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to welcome the initiative which has led to this urgent debate in Parliament on the drought in Portugal and begin by expressing all the sympathy and solidarity I feel with regard to this problem as someone who also comes from the Iberian Peninsula.
I believe that is pretty obvious and that, therefore, with regard to the climatological dimension of what we are discussing here, the problem faced by Portugal is practically identical to that faced by a large part of Spain.
That is why we have introduced certain amendments into this motion for resolution, some paragraphs of which extend its scope somewhat so that it does not just effect Portugal, but also, in part, the whole of the Iberian Peninsula.
Of course, my group is absolutely delighted that specific effects are highlighted, in some cases with very specific references to problems that affect Portugal in particular, and, specifically, the south of Portugal.
The situation for farming is giving cause for concern.
Some reforesting that was carried out after the 2003 and 2004 fires has been lost for good due to the lack of humidity in the soil.
Practical measures are therefore urgently required to support Portuguese farmers, such as those measures provided for in the resolution, or, as we proposed, the creation of a public farmers’ insurance fund, financed by the Community, which will enable farmers to be paid a minimum income in the event of a disaster, such as drought or fire; financial support to offset the increased costs and the drop in agricultural production; temporary exemption from social security contributions, with no loss of rights, for full-time farmers with an income of less than 12 Economic Size Units (ESUs) and the extension of interest-free loans for two years.
Furthermore, short- and long-term measures must also be introduced, in order to guarantee that water – a public asset and a universal human right – is made available to the people in sufficient quantity and quality.
We must show that this solidarity does not stop at the border and I wish to reassure Mr Guardans Cambó that it naturally extends to the whole of the population of Seville, Huelva, Badajoz, Cáceres and so forth, regions that are indeed also suffering the impact of what can only be termed a large-scale natural disaster.
I should like to place particular emphasis, however, on aspects that are, indisputably, intrinsically linked with a forest strategy that of course depends on Member States’ definitions, but which the Commission must also define accurately.
Accordingly, when I hear that, as part of the revision of the forest strategy, the period in which aid due to loss of income can be paid has been reduced from 20 to 10 years, it strikes me that in the European institutions we have still not understood the crucial importance of a proper forestation strategy to combat these instances of near desertification.
I would therefore ask the Commission to attach the highest importance to this aspect. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as has been said several times in this debate, my country is dry and the situation for arable and livestock farming is verging on critical.
Lastly, we need new European risk prevention instruments.
Mr Capoulas Santos is right in this respect.
One thing we must do is set up a European farmers’ insurance fund that can channel part of the farmers’ contributions into a disaster fund, a participatory fund on the part of the Member States and the Union, a fund that can be automatically mobilised in situations such as the one in Portugal and the South of Spain, and on other occasions, in whatever country that may be. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to express my sympathy on account of the Portuguese drought and my support for the resolution.
We often wonder if, for example, the drought of 2003 is an indication of climate change.
Climate change, regrettably, cannot be entirely avoided, but it is now vitally important to minimise the extent of the human and material damage. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as has been mentioned several times today, Portugal is experiencing possibly its most severe drought since 1990 or 1981.
If I mention these figures, and all those that we have heard here today, with particularly strong emphasis, I do so because these have been the most devastated regions of the Portuguese mainland in recent years.
They have suffered from the drought caused by the weather and from the water shortage, because the reservoirs that ought to act as a safety net are already down to just 30 to 40% of useful capacity.
The Commission shares the concerns expressed here on the effects of the drought in Portugal.
We therefore support a policy to combat drought in Portugal and any assistance to alleviate the impact of this water shortage on productivity, the market and cultivation itself.
In many ways, it has been possible to see Bangladesh as a good example of positive development in both economic and political terms.
No satisfactory improvement has occurred either in response to the last resolution by this House, in November 2002, or to the last visit to the country by our SAARC delegation, in February 2003.
Bangladesh must also meet its obligations under the internal conventions on human rights that it has ratified.
The new state could have made a good start had it, for example, followed the Dutch example of building sea walls and draining populated areas which flooded during storm tides; there would have been more space for the inhabitants and their food supply.
Traditionally the majority Muslim population has lived peacefully with other religious minorities, and Bangladesh has a good record on education and civil rights for women.
Matters are not helped by the current boycott of parliamentary dialogue by the Awami League opposition.
I call upon the House to support my amendments to produce a more balanced resolution. &#160;&#160; – The state of Bangladesh was established in 1971 following a struggle for independence.
The resolution leads one to believe that very little progress has been made, and ignores the fact that successes have in fact been achieved; for example, the country produces enough food to feed its citizens.
Our attempts to boost democracy in the country are welcome, but it is a pity that we failed to mention any positive signs of democratic developments in the joint motion for a resolution.
He was the pastor of the Bangladesh Free Baptist Church in the village of Jalalpur in the south-western district of Khulna.
These Muslim extremists are reported to have links with the Jamaat-e-Islami, a political party currently forming part of the government coalition.
The draft resolution that we co-signed is therefore extremely clear.
I am at the same time emphatically opposed to moderating amendments that have been tabled in respect of this unambiguous draft resolution.
At the same time, it is a very poor state.
The debate we are holding today is political in nature, but I see it as an opportunity to highlight the tragic conditions in Bangladesh, which was formerly known as East Bengal.
We are talking about a country of 143 million people.
It is one of the poorest countries in the world still able to manage its own affairs.
We must use these human rights debates to talk about serious matters affecting people and their human rights.
Today’s debate is very timely; it is being held against the background of a law and order situation that has suffered a serious decline since the last European Parliament resolution of November 2002.
The governance situation is at an all-time low and political violence has reached a new climax, as sadly exemplified by the grenade attack in August 2004 and the tragic assassination of former Finance Minister Kibria in January.
The European Community has been very vocal on these issues, not least in view of our development mandate and the human rights clause that provides the basis of our aid relationship with Bangladesh.
Over the last months the European Community and the Member States have repeatedly called on the government to condemn the persecution of political opponents, intellectuals, journalists, NGOs and minorities.
Let me also note that the European Union showed great unity on Bangladesh at this year’s Human Rights Commission in Geneva, where the EU agreed to single out Bangladesh as one of five countries in its statement of principle on human rights in the world.
The deteriorating governance situation has compelled us to enhance donor unity.
For its part, the Commission will continue closely to monitor the political situation in the country and pursue these fundamental issues through our political dialogue with the government and close donor coordination.
In that context we will also increase the focus of our attention on the next parliamentary elections in late 2006 and the conditions for free and fair elections.
The political dialogue will be underpinned by our offer to support pressing institutional reforms in the next aid strategy which, if accepted by the government, would contribute to a meaningful change and thus to more progress and prosperity for the people of Bangladesh. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
In any event, it is the case that this joint resolution that we are going to approve on the situation of the refugees in the Sahara is self-explanatory and deals with a strictly humanitarian drama.
When dealing with the situation of human rights in the world, we will find a paragraph on the situation in the Sahara.
We are talking about around 200&#160;000 refugees who have been living in refugee camps for almost 30 years and whose only resource is international humanitarian aid.
There is no question but that this resolution only resolves and deals with part of the problem and that we cannot turn a blind eye to the fundamental problem.
Humanitarian assistance is necessary, because the Sahrawi people are obliged to live in camps, far from their homes, and cannot live normal lives in those circumstances.
This is very worrying; the European Union cannot ignore this fact.
Let us not forget that the Sahrawi population is in the camps today as a result of incomplete decolonisation, and the main culprit here is the Spanish Government.
After thirty years of being ignored, of silence and of broken promises, the time has come for the world in general, and Europe in particular, to stop turning its back on the problem and to face it head on.
It is time for the Sahrawi people to be granted their fair and understandable request for a referendum on self-determination in Western Sahara, in accordance with international law and the United Nations Charter.
Finally, I would also like to express my solidarity with the Moroccan journalist Alí Lmrabet, who has been unfairly convicted of defamation after stating that the people living in the camps are not prisoners but refugees. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, you are aware of the biblical story in which a people wandered in the desert for 40 years.
In the case of the Sahrawi population, we are not speaking about myths but about real events taking place in contemporary history.
At the beginning of March, a number of us MEPs visited the refugee camps, where the conditions are very difficult, and were able to inform ourselves about not only the political, but also the humanitarian, situation.
France’s position on this conflict is very clear...
The European Union also has a responsibility as the main donor of aid from the United Nations.
We will have to make our voice heard there as well. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is about 30 years since thousands of nomads from the Western Sahara fled to remote areas of neighbouring Algeria in order to escape the conflicts which had broken out between the guerrillas of the Western Sahara and Morocco following the withdrawal of Spain from its former colony.
Its response must be commensurate with its responsibilities.
The joint resolution gives strength to this conviction on our part. &#160;&#160; – In March,I spent three days, along with other Members of Parliament, in tents and I saw the appalling conditions in which people live there.
The Member States, and in particular those on the Security Council, must not continue to overlook the nub of the issue.
I shall finish by saying that the EU must also make Rabat understand that it is in Morocco’s interest to end the illegal occupation of Western Sahara. &#160;&#160; – We feel that this resolution is very important, albeit inadequate, given the difficult humanitarian situation faced by the Sahrawi people in the refugee camps.
Solidarity and practical, immediate and effective action is also required to put an end to the unacceptable occupation in Western Sahara, to guarantee the Sahrawi people the right to self-determination and independence and to ensure compliance with United Nations resolutions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is truly necessary for Parliament and the European Union to commit themselves much more than they have done so far in defence of peoples’ right to self-determination, particularly in such striking cases as that of the Sahrawi people.
Europe must therefore commit to immediate humanitarian aid for the Sahrawi, but above all it must impose sanctions on the Kingdom of Morocco, so that it will respect the self-determination rights of this decent and proud people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, forgetting is the great enemy of many situations of injustice in the world.
After thirty years, these men and women survive in an entirely inhumane situation, deprived of the most basic needs and living in extremely difficult conditions.
The Sahrawi people would like to live from their own resources and their own work, but unfortunately they must rely on our solidarity.
First of all, let me stress that the Commission would like to see this conflict resolved soon and its resolution is crucial for the stability, regional integration and development in the Maghreb and in the Mediterranean.
From a humanitarian point of view, one cannot but feel concern regarding the dramatic conditions for the thousands of Sahrawi refugees, the ongoing detention by the Polisario of 408 Moroccan prisoners of war, the difficulties for the families divided between the refugee camps and the Western Sahara, and the fate of people unaccounted for on both sides.
In full observance of these principles and criteria, the Commission has provided humanitarian aid totalling EUR 108 million to the Sahrawi refugees since 1993.
The Commission has never interrupted its assistance.
I would like to emphasise that, thanks to the essential role of the ‘buffer stock’, created and funded by the Commission in 2000, we have been able to avoid any interruption in food supplies.
The current humanitarian situation in the camps has not deteriorated.
There is a risk of deterioration when and if the possible break in the food pipeline, as announced by the World Food Programme, is not compensated for in a timely and sufficient manner.
The funding for 2005 will depend both on the needs of the Sahrawi refugees and on the conditions for the implementation of ECHO-funded projects.
It not only needs to address the humanitarian needs of refugees in a timely and dedicated manner but it also has to protect the financial interests of the European Union.
With a view to properly assessing the humanitarian needs of the Sahrawi refugees, the Commission is continuing its discussions with the principal agencies and organisations, in particular the Algerian and Sahrawi authorities, the High Commissioner for Refugees, the World Food Programme and non-governmental organisations.
More generally, I would like to state for the record that the Commission and the European Union’s position on the political aspects of this conflict has always been to remain impartial.
The European Union continues to fully support the United Nations’ efforts towards finding a fair and lasting solution in accordance with international law. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We therefore profoundly regret that the Italian authorities have not allowed UNHCR access to the holding centre in Lampedusa.
In conclusion, we must be concerned about the fact that, in the field of asylum and immigration, cases of violations of the fundamental principles to which the European Union and its Member States are committed are becoming increasingly frequent.
That is, of course, a problem for Europe and, above all, for the countries around the Mediterranean.
The same cannot be said for the hundreds of refugees who have been sent from the Italian island Lampedusa to Libya over the past few months, because that country does not recognise the Geneva Convention, and the agreements Italy has with Libya are not public.
Adoption of the two amendments tabled by the Liberals and Amendments 2 and 3 from the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left will make that possible and will stress that these refugees have the same rights as other refugees and cannot simply be moved on to Libya without Europe taking any responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr President, large numbers of migrants regularly arrive on the island of Lampedusa in Italy.
These people have taken the painful decision to leave their countries, often because they are fleeing from political situations that are threatening their lives.
On 18 March, the Italian authorities expelled 180 people from the centre on Lampedusa to Libya.
The lack of transparency of and access to the centre and the conditions under which these people were expelled raise questions with regard to respect for the right to asylum and the Geneva Convention.
As everyone is aware, there is no Community policy on immigration: each individual Member State tackles the problem according to its internal rules and with its own resources.
It seems obvious that the attack launched against the Italian Government is political and is an attempt to exploit the situation at this particular moment in time.
There is a law in Italy – the Turco-Napolitano law – introduced by a left-wing government and unchanged by the current centre-right government, Article 10 of which is being used to confront this issue.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must tackle this problem seriously and from a European viewpoint, and avoid bringing hypothetical political charges against a legitimate government, when such charges could tomorrow be brought against any other Member State and any other government. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall keep this very brief as I only wish to reaffirm some of the ideas already present in the resolution.
Whilst the right to counter illegal immigration is indisputable, it is equally true that such a right must be exercised with respect for human rights and international conventions, refraining from collective expulsions and from the indifference shown by some of the receiving countries to the future fate of these people, particularly when they are repatriated to countries that have not signed international conventions, such as Libya.
We are in a situation in which, to my mind, we, as Europeans, have an element of prestige that is also recognised by countries that do not respect human rights, which is precisely that we respect those rights, or strive to.
Let us please not lose this element of civilisation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, what is the connection between the Western Sahara, the topic before last in our debate, and Lampedusa, which we are discussing now?
The topic was the Western Sahara and Gaddafi’s influence in North Africa.
What is happening on Lampedusa is not about one or two immigrants landing on it here and there; what is going on there is systematic and brutal trafficking in human beings.
If we do not want this systematic traffic in human beings to continue, we have to act, and act together.
The Commission has encouraged the Italian Government to adopt measures that guarantee the right of each individual to submit an asylum request, and not to expel anybody while a decision on the request is pending.
I would like to mention the Council Directive on minimum standards on procedures in Member States for granting and withdrawing refugee status, which aims to provide a level playing field common to all Member States.
The Commission is aware of the concerns expressed by NGOs and UNHCR on Libya’s respect of human rights, in particular as regards refugees’ protection.
During the mission the Commission conducted in Libya at the end of 2004 concerning illegal immigration, issues relating to human rights and asylum were given particular importance.
The Commission considers that such issues should be part of any possible future cooperation with Libya on illegal immigration.
I would like to emphasise that EU regional cooperation with countries generating migrants and refugees must be firmly grounded in the principles of respect for human rights. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
On behalf of my group, I ask you to conduct the final vote on the Lampedusa resolution by roll call. &#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
