It is for that reason that I would like to refer back to a previous President of the Commission, and not just any old President, but Jacques Delors, who, a few months ago, addressing a meeting of the Committee of the Regions, attempted to place services of general interest in the context of the project of European integration.
The building blocks for such legal initiatives are to be found in the resolution on which we will be voting tomorrow, as well as in the resolutions we have already adopted, in, for example, the Langen and Herzog reports.
Our allotted task is to give our own assessment – each group for itself – of the Commission legislative thinking, and we will, after further debate, give our own assessment of the proposal for a framework directive that our group has put forward.
It is within that procedure that we need legal initiatives, for it is not you and your fellow Commissioner, together with the highly qualified and well motivated staff of the Commission, nor indeed the national governments, but we, the Members of the European Parliament, who enjoy the legitimacy conferred by election.
What we call network services, namely transport, energy, telecommunications and postal services, account for about 7% of our collective GDP and 5% of total employment in the European Union.
The success of the European growth and employment strategy – the Lisbon Strategy – which is vital to our prosperity, also depends on the quality and efficiency of these services.
Since the Commission published its White Paper on services of general interest, an intense debate has ensued on the role that the European Union might play with regard to these services.
The reality of services of general interest is complex.
Technical progress, new expectations on the part of society and consumers, financial pressures and the modernisation of public administration have all profoundly transformed the way in which these services are provided.
In these times of rapid economic and technological change, services of general interest need a useful and effective legal framework that enables providers of these services to achieve their prescribed aims and to keep adapting to a changing environment.
The Commission is willing to cooperate in the creation of such a legal framework on the basis of four essential principles.
Firstly, the framework for services of general interest provided nationally, regionally and locally must remain the responsibility of Member States so that we can uphold the important principle of subsidiarity.
I am firmly convinced that the European Union must respect the diversity of conditions and practices that exists among the Member States.
The second principle is this: the promotion and protection of universally accessible services of general interest that represent good value for money are compatible with open competitive markets.
For evidence, we need only observe sectors such as telecommunications or air transport, where public-service activities have been successfully entrusted to private operators while the interests of consumers have been fully safeguarded.
It should, however, be emphasised that, in the event of an irreconcilable conflict between the rules of the internal market or of competition and a service of general interest, the service of general interest must take precedence.
The Commission is willing to provide any advice or information that may be necessary in this matter.
The third principle is that any EU framework applicable to services of general interest must be responsive to divergences and conducive to modernisation.
It is, in fact, a matter of meeting the expectations of people and businesses but also of preventing social and territorial exclusion.
At the European level, given the diversity of situations and sectors, it remains to be established whether a single legislative instrument or a sector-by-sector approach would be the better means to the desired end.
I noted that you asked this question in your report.
The Commission has been very active in this area along with this House and the Council, and I think I can say that we have made good progress in several areas.
We have engaged in extremely broad consultations on the issue of public-private partnerships, and we have announced new initiatives for 2007.
In fact, at the present time we are revising the regulatory framework that applies to electronic communications, and we shall be proposing a new directive on postal services before the end of the year.
These recent advances show that the European Union is displaying initiative and ambition with regard to services of general interest.
We shall present a communication on this subject before the end of the year.
Ladies and gentlemen, the main message I picked up from your report was a twofold call to action: firstly for the creation of greater legal certainty as regards the EU rules governing services of general interest, and secondly for recognition of the wide diversity of sectors and situations throughout Europe.
I believe the time has come for us to consolidate the regulatory framework that applies to services of general interest in the European Union.
Mr Barroso, you mentioned healthcare.
We can look back and see how the sector-specific approach has been quite successful in recent years.
We underline that there is no legal basis in the Treaties for a proposal that would interfere with the internal market, competition rules or public procurement.
I believe that there will be fantastic opportunities for patients to get better healthcare in different countries and that could also create vitality for the European economy.
But we agree on the need to respect the internal market, at the same time as we respect subsidiarity.
I hope, Mr Barroso, that you will read this report and see the need to go further on sector-specific directives and the sector-specific approach, in order to create the legal clarity that also respects the principle of subsidiarity. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has put my colleague Mr&#160;Rapkay’s report, and the issue of services of general interest, at the heart of what it is trying to do during this Parliament.
We have made so bold – and it was an extraordinary achievement on our part – as to put together our own draft directive, which includes the essentials of what Mr&#160;Rapkay has set out in his report, and which I presented to you, Mr President of the Commission, and to the then President of the Council, Mr&#160;Schüssel.
What we see as important in the services debate – certain essential individual elements of which I shall shortly address – is that our strategy should strike a balance between the demands of the internal market, which we social democrats are aware of and acknowledge, and the need to protect the public by reinforcing local and regional institutions, which are still best suited to maintaining the subsidiarity principle in the provision of services.
After all the Councils we have had – in Barcelona, Laeken, Nice – and after all the debates we have had, we see your coming here today, Mr President of the Commission, as the Commission’s underlining of the importance of this debate, and something for which we are grateful to you.
The main thing I have to do is to underline on behalf of our group what Mr&#160;Rapkay has, in his role as rapporteur, said about this report, but there are two other things I should like to say as well.
It is very important that we make our position clear once and for all.
There have been jubilant press releases stating that the European Parliament has finally called for a framework directive, whereas others state that the European Parliament has finally rejected the framework directive once and for all.
Local authorities have very legitimate concerns.
Any market – even the simplest market on the market square – has rules and that is exactly what we mean by the social market economy we have in Europe.
I appreciated the intention he announced to present one or more legislative drafts – I shall return to the question of one or more in a moment – for adoption by codecision as well as the four principles he invoked.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs rejected our proposal for a simple reference to the substance of Article&#160;122 of the Constitutional Treaty and, what is worse, for a simple reference to Article&#160;86 of the present Treaty.
I believe it is extremely important that the parliamentary draft reaffirms what we adopted at the time of the Constitutional Treaty, namely the text of Article&#160;122, and confirms that at least we still believe in Article&#160;86 of the present Treaty.
What we would like is to go much further in pinning down the precise implications of our forthcoming vote.
If there is one point on which I agree with Mrs&#160;in't&#160;Veld, it is that Mr&#160;Rapkay’s diplomatic and very judiciously calculated statement about the need to legislate can be equally easily interpreted to mean one thing or the other.
We will therefore ask you, in accordance with both the Treaty of Amsterdam and the interinstitutional agreement, to present us with a draft directive by virtue of the right of legislative initiative vested in this Parliament.
I regard it as a grave misjudgement to talk of strict subsidiarity when the Services Directive is actually the applicable instrument in the absence of a specific directive on services of general interest.
My group wishes to emphasise three aspects that require clarification.
It is true, as Mr&#160;Barroso and Mr&#160;Lipietz have reminded us, that the Treaty gives precedence to the provision of public services in cases where such provision conflicts with the rules of competition.
It also recognises that national governments have the right to define general interest, but it is the Commission and, in the final analysis, the Court that determine the extent to which derogations may be made.
In our view, these services should quite simply cover the fundamental rights that everyone has in equal measure in this twenty-first century, namely education, health care, housing and decent living conditions, child care, information, culture, transport, telecommunications, postal services, energy and water supply, sewage and waste disposal and other needs that have become compelling, such as access to credit.
As has been said, experiences of public-service management, of property structures and of funding methods vary from one country to another.
Mr&#160;Barroso has outlined an ambitious programme of work for the Commission.
Please let national governments do their own thing. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, you have emphasised, Mr&#160;President, that every country of the Union has its own history and its own conception of public services.
As has been mentioned, we shall shortly adopt a directive opening up the market in services within the Community.
Indeed I welcome the presence this morning of President Barroso on this important issue.
It is a signal of the importance that the Commission attaches to this issue.
There are divisions largely on questions of strategy and, in some cases, tactics.
I favour a framework directive.
That was one of the decisions of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in its opinion on the report.
However, two weeks ago Parliament said ‘no’ to a framework directive.
I believe it would be a mistake to try to push that through again.
I welcome your commitment to take action in the social services and health area.
The Commission really must overcome the competition Commissioner’s antipathy – and yes, I know that will be quite a feat – and sort out once and for all a number of things that will otherwise have to be left to the European Court of Justice.
We have laid down several principles that are in line with what the President of the Commission has said today, and, while the subsidiarity principle means that every level must take decisions for itself, they must also abide by the rules of competition, with subsidies being transparent and the Commission having a watching brief to look out for abuses.
At the same time, with respect to these questions, there are, in my view, three essential fundamental principles.
The second principle is the question of a gradual approach.
We have already been very successful in regulating various sectors in the field of telecommunications among others.
I agree, and so did our committee, that greater legal certainty is, of course, necessary.
I consider the report on services of general interest to be a good report, and believe that Mr&#160;Rapkay and his colleagues have done outstanding work.
That is to say, we cannot speak in this regard of a framework directive or of a communication on a framework directive.
It is also very important that the question of a general directive on services is closely related to this question.
The directive on services has, on many points, set down the framework within which we can work in this regard. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the White Paper on services of general interest, my position, and that of the committee, has been to advocate the complete exclusion of services of general interest (SGIs) from the scope of the directive on internal market services, in accordance with the idea that each Member State has the exclusive competence to define, fund, evaluate and monitor these services, as confirmed by Parliament.
Secondly, we believe that SGIs must be described and defined, and the distinction between services of general economic interest (SGEIs) and services of non-economic general interest (SNEGIs) clarified as regards their legal certainty.
Thirdly, a framework legislation for SGIs, SGEIs and SNEGIs, a general legal framework, as Mr&#160;Barroso mentioned earlier, or a framework directive, according to preference, must be adopted.
The fact that this legislation will encompass SGEIs does not preclude the possibility of specific legislation on certain individual sectors such as transport.
I hope that the Commission and its President focus not only on the report but also on the points that I have raised. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that such things as public local transport, refuse disposal, social services and the water supply are things that should be managed on a regional basis, and that is largely the line taken, in principle, by Mr&#160;Rapkay’s report, which I welcome, and which has taken on board much of what is in the Regional Development Committee’s opinion.
While demanding a commitment to subsidiarity, we also call for greater legal certainty where services of general interest are in conflict with European competition law, namely with regard to the law on subsidies, public-private partnerships, and, indeed, the definition of terms.
It makes no sense to dictate to the regions of Greece or the Czech Republic what they are to understand by services of general or public interest.
That, of course, means a lot more work, but I am sure in my own mind that only the sector-by-sector approach can do justice to the European ideal of subsidiarity in the single market in which we all share.
Mrs&#160;Stauner will now have the opportunity to be the last to put her committee’s point of view. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, even though it has been enshrined in the European Communities Treaty ever since Maastricht, the subsidiarity principle leads a shadowy existence, yet subsidiarity must always apply except where power resides solely at the European level.
The only possible outcome of this debate, then, is a call to have nothing to do with any European regulation on services of general interest, quite simply because there is no European legal basis for one.
I ask you to endorse the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which makes for a Europe that is close to its citizens, transparent and understandable. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, we know that we in this House invariably end up in politically sensitive waters if decisions are taken with the intention of correcting the market or have the effect of doing so.
Very often, the same degree of sensitivity will kick in and the ideological bias is never far away when we want to apply the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in specific situations.
I am delighted with the knowledge that first of all, the importance of the availability of services of general interest is underlined and secondly, that the common position on the Services Directive has been confirmed, namely that it is up to the Member States to determine what services of general interest are.
On the political front, because the debate on public services overshadowed the rest of the European debate, it poisoned the debate on the Constitutional Treaty, and it was blighted by the initial proposal for a directive on services in the internal market, since that proposal included a vast range of social services and services of general economic interest within its scope.
The distrust generated by the risk posed to public services by the actions of the Commission or the interventions of the European Union has a long history.
It is warranted in many respects, one reason being the failure to strike a fair balance between the rules of the internal market and the preservation of the general public interest; another is the impact of a number of single-sector directives that have not delivered the promised or expected results.
I am thinking, for example, of energy-price trends and of certain fears that have been confirmed with regard to postal services.
Because, as you said, one of the principles on which we must base our actions is respect for the right of each Member State and its local authorities to continue to define what they understand by services of general interest and by services of general economic interest.
The ways in which these services are organised and funded as well as the contours, the delineation, of public service are not the same in all our countries and sometimes even differ between regions within our countries or between local communities.
That is why we have taken this rather unusual step for a group in the European Parliament of proposing, as a symbolic gesture but also as a political measure, an initiative for the drafting of a framework directive designed to safeguard services of general economic interest.
From this point of view, may I say the following to Mrs&#160;in't&#160;Veld: I believe this is precisely the legal framework we need if we are to protect subsidiarity, and that is what we have demonstrated with this draft framework directive.
I invite Mrs&#160;in't&#160;Veld to familiarise herself with this initiative, which is intended to define and protect public services and services of general interest and to guarantee their long-term future.
It is normal that the European Parliament, representing the people, and the national governments, representing the Member States, should be able to state openly, on the basis of a public debate, how Article&#160;86 of the EC Treaty is to be interpreted and to draw the demarcation line that safeguards the general public interest from the forces of the internal market and competition.
Public services, as you said, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, are at the heart of the European social model.
People are attached to them because they not only enhance their quality of life, enable them to enjoy their fundamental rights and contribute to economic and social cohesion but also make our continent and its territories more competitive.
It is therefore a legal as well as a political imperative to show today that the European Union is not hostile to public services, that it is not trying to stifle them, but that it seeks, on the contrary, to preserve, encourage and develop them. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, during the debate on the social model, I pointed out that our fellow citizens want a Europe responsive to their urgent and practical concerns.
In Europe today, the legal status of these services is much too fragile.
It is therefore our duty to develop a legal framework at Community level, setting out the procedures and objectives for the organisation of services of general interest.
I am among those who are asking the Commission to propose a framework directive on services of general interest as soon as possible.
They understand full well that to favour this approach would in reality mean delaying the establishment of the legal certainty that they so earnestly desire for services of general interest and for social services of general interest in particular.
What is more, it is clear that a legal framework does not prevent us from taking account of the particular features of certain sectors, quite the contrary.
A legislative project awaits us and it will prove that the Union is the best guarantor of a high level of solidarity and social cohesion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, may I too say how delighted I am to see you and thank you, Mr&#160;Barroso, for attending this debate.
The European Parliament pronounced itself in favour of such legislation in 2001 and 2004, and the European Commission – which at the time was the Prodi Commission – did not take the matter further, putting forward the legal argument of the lack of legal basis and the political argument of the lack of the political majority in the Council needed to make progress.
Today, we are faced with a proposal for a directive on the internal market in services which partly covers services of general economic interest, a directive which many experts predict will not prevent numerous appeals to the European Court of Justice and which we have reason to fear will make it harder to achieve the aim of greater legal certainty in the field of the internal market in services.
Also today, as other fellow Members have pointed out, we are faced with a European Parliament resolution which will be voted on tomorrow and which does not in fact go as far as the resolutions of 2001 and 2004.
However, the real political development, I believe, is that in addition to the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, which has had legal experts draw up a proposal for a framework directive, the European Trade Union Confederation has also put together a proposed text.
A number of associations – I am thinking in particular of the European Liaison Committee on Services of General Interest, which has an in-depth knowledge of these issues – have also drafted proposals of a legal nature which amount to saying: yes, a proposal for a framework directive is not unthinkable, and, moreover, must be consistent with the four principles that you mentioned in your introductory speech.
I believe that we must not underestimate the genuine or imagined concerns of a number of our citizens who feel there is a flagrant imbalance between, on the one hand, the implementation of competition law which, in its general provisions, is a horizontal law, and on the other hand, the protection of services of general interest at European level.
Also, as some Members have said, Mr President, the significance of a framework directive for the Council and the European Parliament is that it provides them with an opportunity to show the Commission and, ultimately, the European Court of Justice, what kind of general provisions they want for European services of general interest.
I believe that this is in fact what is at stake politically in this whole debate.
Though I wish the political majorities were different, they are what they are for the moment. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, crude and heedless deregulation has been the order of the day in Europe for a decade now, with fundamental services such as energy supply, great swathes of the transport sector, not to mention education, health, housing and hospitals being made subject to the rule of the markets and of profit, in part under the of deregulatory legislation from Brussels, in part under pressure from the ECJ, and in part on the initiative of neo-liberal governments, the claims being made that it will bring more jobs, with competition bringing lower prices for consumers and inducing private investors moving their money around more efficiently.
The Court of Justice, through numerous judgments, has created an internal market for many services.
We can only include these services in common European regulations once we improve the system of services in the European Union.
Further action should specify the legal status of services of general interest and of measures to protect consumer interests.
We must make use of this report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, it is a wide-ranging area that we are discussing today.
I am very much in favour of subsidiarity, of locally-made rules, but a standardised definition in a Europe that may well – to pre-empt today's decision – end up with twenty-seven Member States would be a mess of standardised pottage, and that I reject.
This is where the Commission must work together with Parliament, for what is very disturbing, not least to my own group, is that the Commission still retains a degree of ‘licence’, in the sense that it always takes decisions on the basis of what it thinks right and does not consult the voters or their representatives in the manner to which they are entitled.
This is an area where the communications strategy might accomplish something. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article&#160;5 of the Treaty establishing the European Community says, and I quote: ‘Any action by the Community shall not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of this Treaty’.
Yet it is clear that the common objective of social cohesion in particular requires sustained political action if quality public services are to be offered to all citizens.
President Barroso has just emphasised the need to respect the diversity of national, regional and local circumstances.
It is for this reason that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has been fighting for years for a clear legal framework allowing services of general interest to flourish.
We want the greatest possible certainty for all operators of universal public services.
Now, it is difficult to argue that public services supplied locally by public authorities distort trade between Member States.
Mr President, you have just announced that we will receive a communication before the end of the year.
Please, President Barroso, submit a legislative proposal to us or as many such proposals as you wish, but finally allow Parliament to do its job as colegislator in a field that lies, in your own words, at the heart of the European social model. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the White Paper on services of general interest, published by the European Commission more than two years ago.
It is regrettable that liberalisation of the services market has so far been truly inadequate.
The White Paper provides only a very abstract definition of services of general interest and services of general economic interest.
Thus most of the services in the EU can hardly be considered compatible with the principles of the internal market, competitiveness, representation of consumer interests, and the free movement of services.
As to services of general interest, the prime task is to clearly define them; this is to avoid any ‘free interpretations’ in individual Member States in order to protect the markets.
It is necessary to draw up a legal act governing such services, duly considering the principle of subsidiarity and opening services markets to competition for the benefit of each country's own citizens and enhancement of EU competitiveness.
I do admit that regional local governance is an important factor in the provision of services; however, quite often this is used to disguise market protectionism, whereas services are basically ‘big business’. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, services of general interest are at the heart of the European social model.
The only way to guarantee these services of general interest is by means of an explicit framework directive, one that does not impose the rules of European competition law on basic services, these being the sort of services that ought, self-evidently, to be able to receive state subsidies, which exist in order to guarantee basic amenities and ought not to give priority to the demands of the market.
Those services of general interest that are economic in nature can also meet basic needs, and universal access to them, too, must take precedence over the interests of the market.
It follows that any such framework directive must go hand in hand with the services directive, precisely in order to guarantee that protection.
When a directive on services of this kind is being hammered out, it is necessary to settle what belongs to the domain of the market and what does not, as also and above all, the question of who is best placed to decide on this.
We will fight tooth and nail for our interpretation of general interest and against liberalisation and market forces in such areas as education, health care and culture: we have experience of them and have had it with them!
The distinction between services of general interest and services of general economic interest is academic.
Drawing that distinction should not, however, mean that public access is restricted.
Society is well served by a government that does justice to the weak and guarantees access to services that are essential to day-to-day life. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we, in this debate, are indulging in too much shadow boxing and not showing enough respect to the law and the public.
Secondly, in that we do not see the market as an end in itself, we are in favour of the social market economy.
The market possesses sustainability and its own social responsibility; precisely where its boundaries lie is a matter for those with political responsibilities to decide.
Thirdly, we affirm our belief in subsidiarity.
We are in favour of social security, security of supply and quality being guaranteed to the public at affordable prices, and of policymakers shouldering responsibility for relations between the market and the private sphere, between which there needs to be a new partnership, expressed in the form of services of general interest. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to pay tribute to the work of our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Rapkay, which has helped to revive this debate on services of general interest.
I support completely his proposals to create greater legal certainty for social services of general interest.
I also support those on the provision of high quality services throughout the EU at optimal cost, respecting social balance and guaranteeing lasting security of supply.
I am however much more sceptical when it comes to asking the Commission for clarification on applying rules regulating competition and the internal market to public services.
Mr&#160;Barroso, whom I would like to thank for attending the debate, has just confirmed for us the supposed benefit of this competition for consumers.
As the rapporteur has pointed out to you, since public services lack a clear legal framework, their funding and management are dependent on uncertain circumstances offered to us in turn by the Commission and the European Court of Justice, which change hats as they see fit and act interchangeably as judge, legislator and executive.
I do not want a Europe in which the European model is based only on fiscal and social competition between states.
With this framework directive, I want to take Europe beyond the mere market, towards a society in which all public services are guaranteed as key factors in social and territorial cohesion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, before I was elected to this Parliament I was the leader of a Scottish local authority which was, if I may say so, a very successful one in terms of both value for money and meeting local aspirations for public service provision in the County of Angus.
Let us not be satisfied with woolly wording in relation to vital public service.
Let us distinguish clearly between private enterprise, which is subject to EU competition law, and public service: services of a local nature provided for the public good, which have little or no cross-border effect and should be provided free of EU competition rules.
The setting of standards in general interest services should also be subject to local decision.
I say that if we are to have a framework directive, let us have one that gives cast-iron guarantees of the rights of local authorities to define, organise and finance public services in the way they see fit.
I recognise that significant economic benefits to business will arise from removing barriers to commercial service provision, but let us not further alienate public opinion by interfering with or undermining the provision of essential local public services. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one thing that points to the existence of a European social model, it is precisely services, which must be safeguarded since they represent elements of citizenship.
We have been asked to say whether there should be services of general interest befitting all Europeans and, if so, how.
We also ask you to support them in order to clarify what the aim of a possible framework directive is, that is, to understand what Europe thinks about its social model and what it is proposing to its Member States in relation to services of general interest, whether services of general economic interest or otherwise. &#160;&#160; – President Barroso, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report refers, quite rightly, to the principle of subsidiarity as the legal basis for issues relating to services of general interest.
We have moved from a substitution principle to a principle of delegation.
The freedom of Member States to define the duties they intend to entrust to public service, in accordance with the will of their people, is being seriously undermined in this instance.
The only rule we have need of is that of sovereignty, which means that each State should be free to decide on its public services and that public service obligations take precedence over Community competition law. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to get this debate back, as my colleague Mr Karas said, to the people who really matter in all of this: our citizens receiving public services.
We know that in many cases those public services are not good enough, not efficient enough and are delivered at much too high a cost.
He mentioned the crucial factor of how technology is now enabling those services to be transformed and new models of organisation and delivery to be sustained.
With the Services Directive in place, thanks to our efforts, more of those minds can be unleashed on delivery of services.
I have asked in my committee, but with no reply, what problems for our citizens this directive is intended to solve.
When those on the Left give us a comprehensive analysis of those problems, we might consider it, but we have far more important things to do today than to talk about their political declaration. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the coordinator of the PSE Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I asked to be the last speaker on the PSE Group side, precisely in order to remove some of the prejudices and misunderstandings about this debate.
So I hope I can eliminate some of those misunderstandings.
Firstly, I want to thank Mr Barroso for his speech and to say that we in the PSE Group fully understand his four principles and his view that it is necessary to create more legal certainty for the service providers, whether they are public or private or something in between, for the Member States and the decentralised public authorities, and for the citizens.
I think Mr Barroso has correctly interpreted the report that Mr Rapkay prepared on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and that we voted for by a large majority in the committee.
The report does not say that there should be a horizontal instrument or sector-specific instruments only; it leaves the options open and says that both methods can be used in parallel.
Unfortunately I have the impression that many did not read this text, because if Mr Harbour had read it he would see that it is not a political statement but a clear attempt to reconcile the rules of the market, of competition, the subsidiarity that we want to guarantee for local authorities, the quality aspects and the importance of public service and services of general interest and economic interest for the citizens of Europe.
I must say that, after reading a great deal of detail on the subject, and following the lengthy debate on this issue, I strongly back the idea of establishing a general directive on services of general economic interest (SGIs).
Those of us who have spent many years in local and regional politics will be aware that, as far as the public are concerned, politics begins at their own front door, and so subsidiarity requires that the right of communities to manage their own affairs, and hence the powers of local authorities, should not, despite the complexity of European structures, be tampered with.
It follows from that that municipalities must play a major part in defining and organising services of general interest, and that, in essence, must involve, seeking by every avenue available to offer these services to the public at as reasonable a price as possible, and must, of course, also mean that public and private service providers must be brought in as partners together.
What is needed is the sort of legal certainty that encourages municipal authorities to be creative in performing their services, that does not overburden them with bureaucracy and makes long-term forward planning possible.
Creativity and the guaranteed right, founded upon legal certainty, for municipalities to govern themselves, can be crucial in facilitating locally-based contributions to Europe’s economic growth. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the text of the resolution manages to strike the right balance as regards the freedom that the Member States should retain in future in terms of, on the one hand, the organisation and definition of their public functions and, on the other, the observance of internal market rules.
Europe’s focus – and the text of the resolution does not leave us in any doubt in that respect – must be on legal clarification and a sectoral approach where ambiguity creates problems.
We also demand legal certainty to help local and regional authorities, but we should be acutely aware that those selfsame local authorities want to retain their freedom of choice and do not want additional rules imposed from above.
We must, above all, provide room for diversity, and refrain from freezing this diversity in a horizontal regulatory framework.
If Europe is to be ready for battle, it must retain its dynamism.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will therefore vote against the Socialists’ amendment which requests framework legislation.
Mrs&#160;van&#160;den&#160;Burg mentioned the prejudices and misconceptions in respect of the intentions of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
The report is a very important step towards defining the legal status of services of general interest.
It should be highlighted that, in terms of European Union legislation, a framework directive on services of general interest is unnecessary.
Thus, the Member States should be able to define services of general interest within their territories but they should not be able to abuse this right, as they frequently tend to do.
Services of general interest are often used as an argument for protecting the public interest from the principles of the internal market.
In my opinion, a framework directive will not provide a satisfactory solution either for the European economy or for the consumers, namely the citizens of Europe.
Public services, being part of the social model, therefore need to continually adapt to new developments in globalisation, to democratic changes and to advances in science.
The European Parliament approved the Services Directive on the first reading and defined its scope.
Services of general economic interest were included in the scope of the Services Directive.
The approved draft Directive does not apply to services in the public interest, healthcare services and transport services.
In Slovakia, local and regional authorities elected and controlled by the public have done a good job in providing services for the common good and they are capable of continuing to secure rights relating to codecision, consumer protection and public welfare.
With a view to these considerations, I am convinced that it is not necessary to give the European Union additional powers in the area of services provided for the benefit of the public.
My position is clear – there is no legal basis for a framework directive on services in the public interest.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Rappkay, for his work. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to start with warm thanks to the Members whose input was crucial to the process of working through this issue, namely Mr&#160;Szájer from the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, Mr&#160;Rapkay as the House’s principal rapporteur, and our shadow rapporteur Mr&#160;Hökmark.
What you, Mr President of the Commission, said this morning struck me as a perfectly adequate response to the concerns to which the Socialist Group in this House is giving expression by bringing in its own draft for a framework directive.
If they want to carry on doing that in future, they will need to be given the legal certainty that will enable them to do so, but that does not mean that this is an area from which the market should be excluded. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to make three points.
This whole debate is about having specific public services of general interest.
I should therefore like to promote public-private partnerships.
We have to go sector by sector, focus on cooperation and have clear priorities: healthcare, postal services, water and gas services and so on, but without a directive.
Let us stay clear of it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, fellow Members, you usefully referred, Mr&#160;Barroso, to the four basic principles that need to guide our thinking about services of general interest.
Paradoxically, it might be thought that you have reopened the debate on the need either to have a framework directive on services of general economic interest or to choose sectoral initiatives in relation to social or health services.
The vote on the Services Directive altered the parameters in favour of the second solution since the real dividing line lies not between services of economic and non-economic general interest but – within services of general economic interest – between social and health services and other services.
This development was reinforced by the detailed and legally painstaking work done by the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Rapkay, and our colleague, Mr&#160;Hökmark, who constructed a legal bridge between the Services Directive and the sectoral instruments.
Indeed, a framework directive on services of general economic interest raises three difficulties.
Firstly, the Treaty on European Union offers no legal basis, as has been pointed out on many occasions.
Next, this directive would be incompatible with the scope of the Services Directive, as voted on at first reading on 29&#160;May.
Finally, it in no respect meets the need for legal certainty expressed by the players and, at the same time, it threatens the subsidiarity called for by Member States and local authorities.
The work of legal clarification needs to be continued in the field of social and health services of general interest.
That, Mr&#160;Barroso, is the practical problem faced by the actors on the ground. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is an extremely interesting debate.
As you know, the Commission published a White Paper on the issue, recommending that a framework directive be put in place to cover services of general interest.
I would certainly agree with the idea in principle, but I believe that an overarching directive would cause enormous confusion in the debate, especially in the debate in Member States.
What we are trying to do here is improve services for the citizens of Europe so they will understand exactly what has been proposed; so that consumers will not be frightened that a directive which comes from Europe could privatise or undermine existing services within their country.
It is very important to approach this with clarity so people can understand exactly what has been proposed by both the Commission and Parliament.
The EU has competence over matters such as telecommunications, transport and energy, but it does not have competence under the EU Treaties to legislate in a broad capacity on matters governing the operation of social services, health and education within the different Member States.
The debate boils down to the powers of the EU institutions versus the competence of Member States.
It surprises me that some Members are against that, whereas they are very much in favour of tax harmonisation between Member States.
It is in Europe that countries like France have invented this cooperative method of administering the shared dimensions of what is owned by society as a whole.
This is precisely a time when this intelligent technique for making services generally, indeed universally, available could inspire audacious solutions to worldwide problems in relation to water, basic medicines, education and all the shared dimensions of what is owned by the world as a whole, yet the European Commission is reducing the scope of this tool for guiding human societies, if not actually destroying it.
Mr&#160;Barroso, beyond the technical problems explained by our fellow Members, such as Mr&#160;Désir who spoke just now, the problem is a cultural problem and a problem of choice.
Either we manage human societies according to the law of the market, which is to say the law of the jungle, or we manage them according to the law of reason.
Even considered in a specific spatio-temporal framework, the issue is a difficult one because it involves reconciling principles that sometimes appear contradictory.
That is the way it is when it comes to the principles of the internal market and of competition – principles that are essential to our Community, that are inscribed in the Treaties and that the Commission is – let us be clear - absolutely obliged to respect, as it is obliged to respect the principles of state intervention and of the general interest.
If, however, the issue is already difficult in itself, it proves to be still more complex when placed in the developing context of space and time.
In territorial terms, too, the situation varies a lot from one Member State to another, and there may indeed be big differences between levels of intervention at national, regional and even local level.
I believe that there are two extreme approaches that must be avoided at all costs.
The first consists in saying that services of general interest fall completely outside Europe’s remit.
Europe therefore has something to say about the matter.
Having followed this debate, I think that the principles that I stated at the beginning and to which, moreover, the Rapkay report refers provide us with the solution.
Moreover – and this is, in my view, perhaps the most important point – there is the issue of what are the essential features of public services.
The need to modernise public services can therefore be accepted as a matter of principle, but without forgetting these essential factors.
Finally, mention must be made of the need for increased legal certainty.
The communication we shall present will be along those lines, and I believe that the debate and my presence in this House today will help us fine-tune our ideas.
We shall propose something that will demonstrate that we have made progress in our thinking and, I hope, in our decisions concerning such an important subject that is at the very heart of what matters to Europe and to our fellow citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe we are all more or less in agreement with what Mr&#160;Barroso has just said.
As I said, we will by the end of the year be presenting a communication that will be an advance on previous thinking.
Having said that, there will of course be legislative initiatives for different sectors.
Having said that, too, I think we need to give some thought to what can be done on a more general level; I and my services will be doing so – after all, the Commission is not just a set of services, the College and the President have ideas too.
I cannot at this stage say what our proposal will be, but – and now I am anticipating without committing the Commission, because it is a question I have to put to the College myself – it seems to me from the debate that it would be possible to adopt an approach combining the principles we have mentioned here, taking into account the need that many of you have voiced to avoid splitting Parliament and Europe today on the appropriateness of regulation, especially where the principle of subsidiarity is involved.
Just as Parliament and the institutions managed to find a positive political balance on that directive, it seems to me that we need the same kind of approach for this question.
Then we will find a solution on the decision-making instruments. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
As its name indicates, PROGRESS stands for progress and social solidarity, and that is why this House saw it as important that it should be rolled out, as planned, at the beginning of January 2007, and that is what we are, by this vote, going to be able to do, now that the Council has accommodated our wishes.
I therefore want to thank all those who have played a part in making PROGRESS what it now is, namely a really comprehensive and, above all, well-funded strategic instrument that really can put the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion on a more sustainable footing.
I must, though, also reiterate my thanks to our budget specialists from all the groups, who, in the trialogue negotiations, had a hard-won fight to get PROGRESS’ funding increased by almost 20%, which amounts to doing the impossible.
It was, in the past, repeatedly lamented that the previous multiannual programmes – which addressed the labour market, social integration, anti-discrimination and equality of opportunity – would not be enough to actually push through our social agenda in the way it had been planned for, that is to say, to facilitate a real and rapid exchange of political approaches, concepts and measures among the Member States and to bring them together in developing further indicators and more effective measures.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank, in particular, the members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for their outstanding work and for their efforts throughout the negotiation process.
I should especially like to thank most warmly Mrs&#160;Jöns, Parliament’s rapporteur on these matters, along with all of the shadow rapporteurs, without whom it would not have been possible to reach such a positive conclusion.
The distribution of the budget between policy areas relating to our programme meets your expectations.
I am pleased to note that the Council has finally adopted this approach, which also paved the way for the negotiations to reach a speedy conclusion.
Lastly, I should like to thank the Members of Parliament, whose efforts and determination have helped bring about this excellent outcome. &#160;&#160; Mr President, can you explain or give any good reason why the votes have been arbitrarily postponed to 11.40, when previously they were announced for 11.30?
One of the solutions was for us here in the European Parliament to make efforts to have more money appropriated to the programme within the framework of the long-term budget, since this is a matter relating to the social Europe about which we so often speak.
There was a certain degree of discord in relation to the issues of equality and social integration, but these issues have since been resolved.
I would like to remind this House that you were also the first woman to become Finance Minister in your country in 1979, 27 years ago now.
Our Parliament is delighted with the role that the Economic Community of Western African States (ECOWAS) played in the peace talks in 2002 that led to the presidential elections that you won last November.
If you read the President of Liberia’s biography, you will see how often she has resigned from her posts because she disagreed with the ways governments were tackling the problem of corruption in her country.
You will also remember that last April, here in plenary, I had the opportunity to express my satisfaction at the arrest and extradition of Charles Taylor, which the European Parliament had called for in various resolutions and which were finally carried out at the request of the President.
After so much suffering, we want to offer you our support.
This would not be the first time that, having found peace, a society has not found the road to reconciliation and the economy has not found the road to development.
It has been barely eight months since the full responsibility of rebuilding post-conflict Liberia was passed over to us, following our victory during the democratically held 2005 elections.
We accepted the responsibility fully aware of the magnitude of the challenges that our country faces after 14 years of civil war and destruction.
The damage and negative consequences have been enormous, deepening the state of poverty throughout the country.
Today, GDP per capita at USD 163 (2005) represents a 90% decline as compared with the pre-1980s pre-war levels due to sanctions and cutbacks in activities in productive sectors such as agriculture, forestry and mining.
Today, well over three-quarters of our people live below the poverty line of USD 1 per day.
They just want the simple things that most people take for granted: to live their lives in peace, get a good education and to be able to provide for their families.
As you all know, the risks of regression to war in post-conflict societies is high when the government and the international community are not able to make strong efforts at key moments and sustain them over time.
Our efforts, joined by those of our partners over the next few months, the next year and beyond, will determine the future course of our nation.
If we wait too long to introduce the policy changes and reforms that are needed, or if our international partners wait too long to ramp up its support, then we may lose the best chance Liberia has had in a generation to end the conflict permanently and build the foundations for growth and prosperity.
We must quickly consolidate the potential dividends of Liberia’s hard-won peace and arrest the economic and financial haemorrhaging.
We must respond to the deep wounds of the civil war, and enhance national governance, while quickly introducing new measures of structural reform.
We must base our approach on the core principles of democracy, accountability, free enterprise, good governance, respect for human rights, and equitable distribution of our natural resources.
We are basing our strategy on four pillars of reconstruction and development.
Our security forces over the years have been quite corrupt and largely dysfunctional.
They have lacked the trust of the population and have been used to terrorise the population and to intervene in political processes without respect for due process or law.
We want to change that.
We are concluding our Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy which articulates priority interventions over the period July 2006 through December 2007.
The third element of our vision is improving democratic governance.
The over-concentration of power and a closed political system bred corruption, restricted access to the decision-making processes, limited the space for civil society participation in the processes of governance, and fuelled ethnic and class animosities and rivalries over time.
The fourth and final pillar of our agenda is revitalising our social and physical infrastructure.
Our vision of education for all – young and old – demands that we enforce the policy of full universal primary education and introduce literacy programmes in communities throughout the country with our resilient market women as key targets.
The associated challenges are so daunting and the needs and expectations of our people so massive that our Government cannot satisfactorily respond by itself.
The Government and people of Liberia appreciate this concerted support and we are keen to harness it for the recovery, reconstruction and development of our country.
We take interest in the ongoing reforms within European Union development assistance to African nations, as well as the new European consensus on development towards poverty eradication.
Furthermore, the anticipated European Development Day celebration will no doubt enhance the content and results of your partnership with our countries.
In the next few months, we will be engaged in serious planning for our Partnership Conference, which is to take place in the first quarter of next year, and in developing our medium-term poverty reduction and growth strategy.
I also want to make sure that we do not face gaps in critical support during the transition between our emergency programmes winding down and longer-term development programmes getting started.
We are glad that our nation has been blessed.
Liberia is not a poor country, but a country that has been poorly managed.
We are committed, as a people, to build a new Liberia from the ashes of an old turbulent past to a future of hope and promise.
I am sure that your presence here in the European Parliament and the words that you have addressed to us will help to make the whole of Europe fully aware of your country’s problems and to commit itself to development in Africa.
We are all aware of the extent to which Europe is now concerned about immigration from Africa and we all know that it is only by overcoming the problems that you have described that we will be able to establish the relationship of cooperation that you have talked about today.
Although we have no fears when it comes to appending our names to this, I do see this as setting a precedent, and therefore believe that there are fundamental reasons why it is wrong. &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the excellent report by Mr&#160;Mavromattis on the important subject of relations between the media and development.
Enshrined in Article&#160;19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations in 1948, freedom of expression and information is recognised as a fundamental right.
Freedom of the media is essential to access to knowledge and to transparency and it must be entirely independent.
I should also like to highlight the fact that in some Member States there are no media that one might remotely call independent or professional.
In the Czech Republic, for example, the media are merely components of the market and clearly an instrument of political manipulation used to misinform the public.
The empty lip–service that is paid to ethics and humanity is clearly deeply naive and tantamount to turning a blind eye to the real problems facing the media sector in the EU. &#160;&#160; – I supported the Beazley report on support for initiatives to complement national school curricula providing appropriate support measures to include the European dimension.
It is clear that the inclusion of European history, shared cultural heritage and a grasp of European current affairs must go hand in hand with the development of other areas such as support for multilingualism.
This own-initiative report is a good way to help Member States incorporate European topics into their education systems. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the excellent report by Mr&#160;Beazley on initiatives to complement school curricula providing appropriate support measures to include the European Dimension.
In terms of European construction, everybody knows how crucial it is to instil a European culture amongst the citizens, particularly young people: it is essential to the success of the European project in terms of creating a humanist civilisation.
Each country has its particular characteristics and each people its own history, and yet even this can be viewed from different angles depending on one's perspective.
Accordingly, although the report highlights some positive points as regards language and other skills, following up previous reports and existing Community programmes, we are opposed to any attempt at standardisation to which it might lead.
The European Parliament has previously stated that, amongst other things, it wishes to get involved in language teaching and the adjustment of education systems to areas such as new technology and digitalisation.
It is for the Member States themselves to advocate democracy and tolerance in Europe when devising their school curriculums and addressing their citizens.
There are a number of programmes that exist for teacher exchanges and for students such as the ERASMUS/SOCRATES programme.
However, in the UK there are large numbers of students who are not aware of these opportunities and the UK is falling behind other countries in sending students abroad.
We also believe that all citizens should have access to detailed and unbiased information about the European Union and how it affects their lives.
It is vital that we promote other European languages outside Europe.
The European dimension has a well-established place in the education systems of these countries, and people are encouraged to learn European languages.
Education is and must remain a Member State competence.
Indeed, we in Scotland control our own education system and have for centuries.
However, our rapporteur makes the very fair point that often our youngsters leave school ill-equipped to participate as citizens, and often know little about the EU or other governments which work for them.
It is for that reason that the whole package was largely worthy of rejection; we would prefer the Council position. &#160;&#160; – My vote with regard to the Krahmer and Corbey reports was in favour of higher levels for the quality of air and for stricter controls in this area.
The main motive for my decision is the way Maltese and Gozitan citizens are at present being treated by the country’s authorities.
A concrete example of this was the fact that it was only after an intervention on my part that the authorities publicly admitted that European directives regarding emissions from the country’s power-stations were being breached.
This is not acceptable and it is incumbent on the responsible authorities and the European Commission to follow this breach more closely. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the report by Mr&#160;Krahmer on the draft legislative resolution, at first reading, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on ambient air quality and cleaner air for Europe.
This proposed directive is going to replace five different legal instruments and contribute to the ‘better lawmaking’ process, and that is a very positive step.
The Directive has a solid enough legal basis in Articles 175 and 176, which state that the Member States may retain or adopt provisions with a view to ensuring more extensive protection.
However, Article&#160;176 also states that such protection must be notified to the Commission, and must not be in contravention of the treaties.
The limit values for air pollution may be in conflict with the internal market, for which reason we do not believe that a directive with Articles 175 and 176 as its legal basis is of itself a sufficient guarantee of the ability of the Member States to retain or adopt provisions with a view to attaining higher levels of protection.
We are nonetheless voting ‘yes’, as we find common minimum standards desirable, and we shall therefore be putting forward proposals during the second reading in Parliament providing a legal basis in the directive to safeguard the right of the Member States to adopt more stringent provisions and to make it clear that they have this right. &#160;&#160; . – Clean air for the citizens, their health and their quality of life is a good intention.
Most at risk are children, the elderly and people living in the most populous cities or close to busy roads.
The proposals tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left were unfortunately rejected in the debate in Parliament.
Accordingly, the document that has just been adopted is limited in scope, although it does contain some welcome proposals aimed at striking a degree of balance as regards combating pollution, albeit in watered-down form.
Hence our abstention. &#160;&#160; I abstained on the Krahmer report, the main parts of which are impossible for ordinary mortals to understand, including the legislature that is supposed to make the law.
As part of the drive to simplify environmental legislation, it brings five of the existing provisions on air quality under one single directive.
We therefore endorse the introduction of new objectives for PM10 and, above all, the setting of target values for PM2.5, which is considered the most harmful particle matter to human health, but which is yet to be covered by European-level legislation.
We tabled a number of amendments introducing measures such as a five-yearly review of the Directive in order that the most up-to-date scientific findings can be taken on board, air quality guarantees, the exclusion of certain areas that we do not consider relevant because they have little public access or are already subject to proper checks, and, lastly, the simplification of roadside measuring criteria.
The abnormally high percentages of birth defects in some industrial regions of the European Union are of particular concern.
In some urban areas, too, such as in the city of Messina, which absorbs traffic day and night in the form of vehicles leaving Sicily bound for the European continent and vice versa, the situation has become unbearable.
For the first time, this House is even adopting a weaker position than the Council.
This House’s position is considerably less ambitious than the recommendations issued by the World Health Organisation, and those levels proved attainable in large cities in industrialised countries.
What is worse, Parliament is offering Member States the opportunity of extending the number of calendar days during which the limit value for PM10 dust particles per calendar year can be exceeded from 35 days to 55, which is tantamount to burying your head in the sand.
The USA, by issuing an annual limit value of 15 µg/m3 for PM2.5 since 1997, has demonstrated that a stricter approach is feasible.
The limit must be attained by 2010 at the latest.
The European Parliament stands by its promise to attain 20 µg/m3 by ... 2015!
With regard to the European Parliament's lease of the Strasbourg parliament buildings, we acknowledge and approve the fact that the report states that the parliament authority behaved correctly but that the City of Strasbourg had failed to act in good faith.
However, we believe that the continued occupancy of two seats by the European Parliament represents poor value for money to the European taxpayer and, therefore, we can not support any proposal to purchase the Strasbourg parliament buildings.
For these reasons the British Conservatives have abstained on the final vote on the Ferber report. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of discharge, but I abstained on the resolution because the Committee on Budgetary Control insists on mixing issues that are real with those that are not.
In a market economy, it is impossible to speak of a fair rent because all rents and all purchase prices are negotiated between the owner and the lessee or the purchaser.
That is precisely what some Members and some of the media have claimed, obviously without a shadow of evidence.
The first of these is that we believe the leadership of the European Parliament is just as responsible as the city of Strasbourg for the fact that, for years, too much rent has been paid for the premises in Strasbourg.
The second reason is that we believe that the European Parliament as an institution should not be made responsible for the shortfall in the MEPs’ additional pension scheme.
The FDP in the European Parliament is of the opinion that it is wrong for Parliament to purchase the building in Strasbourg, because it would be irresponsible for it to tie itself to Strasbourg for the long term.
We have nothing against the calculation that shows that a purchase will prove more beneficial in the long run than extending the rental agreement.
In September 1999, the Dutch Parliament unanimously spoke out against the European Parliament continuing to sit in two different cities.
As a result, the Dutch representatives across all EU bodies were urged to put an end to this practice at the earliest opportunity.
Having followed the matter of the buildings in every detail, it is clear to me that it has been dominated by bad faith.
Finally, the proposed purchase of the three buildings is good news for the European taxpayer.
I am sad to note that the Members’ pension fund has been the subject of unjustified attacks on the principle of ‘slander as much as you like, there will always be something left’. &#160;&#160; We have today chosen to vote in favour of Mr&#160;Ferber’s report on the discharge for implementation of the European Union general budget for the financial year 2004.
At the same time, it seems clear that the principle of ‘sound financial management’, as defined in the Financial Regulation, has not been fully respected.
To buy the current buildings is a good business deal in the long term, from a strictly financial point of view.
One million EU citizens have signed the citizens’ initiative aimed at ending the travelling circus between Brussels and Strasbourg.
In our opinion, it is unreasonable for European taxpayers to have to help fund a scheme completely regardless of whether it yields profits or not. &#160;&#160; We can only be delighted at the signing of the framework agreement that will allow Parliament to buy the WIC, SDM and IPE3 buildings outright for the sum of EUR 143&#160;125&#160;million.
Finally, it seems to me essential that the use of the secretarial assistance allowance should be more transparent and in particular that a statute for our staff should be proposed quickly to regulate working conditions and tax and social security matters.
When a particular city is chosen as the seat of a Community institution, there are always political factors involved, too, which is totally justified, although it does not follow that any political decision is valid, irrespective of its economic or logistical rationale.
In the case of the European Parliament, the choice of Strasbourg was based on historical factors, but nowadays, in terms of economics and practicality, it is no longer viable.
The European Parliament must have one home and that should be in Brussels.
We do not have debates in this institution, but tightly controlled and orchestrated speaking time, without the opportunity for reply.
It is all very well for this report to question the City of Strasbourg’s ‘good faith’, but the reality is that this city worked out the best deal it could get for itself.
Along with more than a million other Europeans, we have supported the OneSeat.eu initiative, and, together with the citizens, we will also continue to advocate relocating Parliament's activities from Strasbourg to Brussels. &#160;&#160; There is every reason to criticise some of the European Parliament’s activities.
Under this system, European taxpayers have to pay for two thirds of all contributions (currently EUR&#160;2&#160;088 per month per MEP who has chosen to join this scheme).
The remaining third has until now been paid from MEPs’ secretarial allowance, despite the fact that the Court of Auditors criticised this arrangement as long ago as 1999, stating that contributions should be made on an entirely private basis in order to prevent accusations of ‘public funds being used for private pension contributions’.
On the one hand, this is of great benefit to the students themselves, who gain the opportunity to develop their personal skills in addition to obtaining a specialist qualification, but, on the other hand, domestic universities have increasing numbers of foreign students.
However, I find it quite astounding that, in Austria for example, despite the low percentage of the population with degrees, they form such a high proportion of the unemployed.
That is why I voted in favour of the Prets report. &#160;&#160; – I backed the report on transnational mobility because of the bearing this activity has on the skills and competences acquired by students, and also because it is an important precondition for the successful implementation of these skills and competences in the workplace.
I particularly welcome the amendments aimed at encouraging the public authorities in Europe to implement measures to improve mobility in Europe and facilitate the mobility of researchers, students and teachers in the EU.
This has clearly been the case with the programmes aimed at fostering mobility among students.
That being said, the EU’s political initiative was quickly overtaken by the success of Community programmes.
I welcome this report because it advocates the adoption of a European Quality Charter for Mobility, which places the accent not just on increasing mobility but on improving its quality, and, in so doing, developing human resources to the full.
There is no doubt that any improvement in mobility in education and training will help achieve a knowledge-based economy conducive to creating jobs and sustainable development, which are the cornerstones of the Lisbon Strategy. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I abstained on the Trüpel report, because the acquisition of so-called key competences presupposes basic skills such as reading, writing, arithmetic and logical, critical thinking.
If we do not soon lay down upper limits for the proportion of foreigners in classes, then those classes will not only continue to suffer from preconditioned conflicts between the various groups and cultures, but also find it increasingly difficult to acquire key competences. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the report by Mrs&#160;Trüpel on the proposal for a recommendation, at first reading, of the European Parliament and of the Council on key competences for lifelong learning.
It is crucial to the European citizens that, through training, they may have a reasonable guarantee of employability in the knowledge-based society defined in the Lisbon Strategy.
I particularly welcome the reference to the need to increase investment in education and training.
The pressure of globalisation and new technologies has clearly highlighted a number of gaps in a range of key skills, which make it more difficult for workers to adapt to increasingly flexible labour markets.
This initiative forms part of the Lisbon Strategy objectives of investing in growth and employment, and is to be funded by the new generation of Community programmes (2007-2013), such as the European Social Fund, of which lifelong learning is one of the priorities.
The June List believes that cross-border environmental problems represent an issue that should be dealt with at Community level.
Paragraph&#160;25 calls on the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council to strike an interinstitutional agreement in which they express their dedication to the air quality targets.
The June List clearly also wishes to see better legislation, but we believe that this will be difficult to achieve if the legislature and the executive power have agreed in advance which regulations are going to apply in the future.
Mr&#160;Hegyi expects EU standards in quite a few areas which fall exclusively within the sphere of competence of the Member States or of local authorities.
I understand his reasons since, like me, he lives in Budapest, where nothing has been done in recent years to improve the quality of the environment.
We cannot, however, expect the Union to solve the environmental problems of European cities with standards outlining detailed, specific programmes.
Some 80% of Europe’s citizens live in urban areas, but their needs and interests are often under-represented in the Union’s funds, projects, initiatives and strategies.
It is also important, as the report says, to promote the exchange of best practice at Community level as regards sustainable urban management strategy and planning, and the increased involvement of the citizens in public debates at the planning stage.
The idea of sustainable urban transport plans is undoubtedly important, yet we must not overlook the need to use this instrument flexibly and in a way that is appropriate to the specific characteristics of each city.
The use of environmentally-friendly means of transport and technologies is a key factor in achieving a cleaner environment.
It therefore strikes me as clear that in order to foster an integrated approach to urban policy, it is crucial to promote private-public partnerships and to effectively manage existing Community instruments to support urban policy.
Only with measures that are appropriate to the actual situation in each Member State will we be able to deliver a sustainable future for our cities and the harmonious growth of our societies. &#160;&#160; I am voting in favour of this report despite the fact that it contains negative points such as, for example, green areas per capita and how music from domestic sources is to be reduced in the urban environment, these clearly being local issues that should be decided at local level.
The report tries to destroy the subsidiarity principle.
The report tries to destroy the subsidiarity principle.
I welcome a European approach such as this because it meets the fresh challenges posed by a knowledge-based society head-on and seeks to address the new requirements of the European labour market.
Our conclusion is that both countries are in a position to take on the rights and obligations of European Union membership on 1 January 2007.
I would also like to thank you, honourable Members, for the constructive role played by Parliament.
The European Parliament has always been a staunch champion of the political, economic and cultural benefits of enlargement.
Your support has helped to spread peace, stability and prosperity in Europe.
Enlargement stimulates economic growth and social cohesion and reinforces the role and influence of the European Union in the world.
The readiness of Bulgaria and Romania is a direct result of the sustained progress both countries have achieved over the last few years and particularly since our last report in May.
The Commission takes its responsibility as guardian of the treaties very seriously.
This endorsement of the 2007 accession date for Bulgaria and Romania is based on a rigorous, fair and objective assessment, as Commissioner Rehn will explain in detail in a few moments.
Bulgaria and Romania have found the right answer to our strict conditionality by addressing the areas we highlighted in May.
In particular, the Commission will set up a mechanism for cooperation and verification of progress in the areas of judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime.
The mechanism contains specific benchmarks that have to be met.
The Commission will report regularly to Parliament and to the Council on the progress achieved.
The Commission has further accompanying measures at its disposal, which will ensure the proper functioning of the Union up to and beyond the accession of both countries.
European Union rules provide us with a comprehensive set of measures that allow us to combat potential risks in acceding and in current Member States and to address concerns such as food safety or the management of European taxpayers’ money.
I should like to use this opportunity to state my position concerning future enlargements.
After the completion of this fifth enlargement, with the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, I believe that an institutional settlement should precede any future enlargement.
In any case, the Nice Treaty already requires us to adapt our institutional set-up following the accession of the 27th member.
Last June’s European Council conclusions have set the course for that institutional settlement and I hope that by the end of 2008 we will succeed.
In following that timetable, we will respect our commitments towards countries for which we have opened up the possibility of accession and fulfil our strategic goal of consolidating peace, democracy and prosperity on our continent.
Over the past months, both countries have demonstrated their readiness to join the European Union.
In terms of the political criteria, Bulgaria has continued the reform of the judiciary.
The legal framework has improved, for instance, through the adoption of rules that establish objective procedures for the appointment and evaluation of magistrates, which is very important for the independence of the court systems.
The ongoing preparations of constitutional reform in that regard are also very welcome.
In the fight against organised crime, more specialists have been recruited and some successful actions have been registered against criminal networks.
The interpretation and application of the law is being further harmonised and staffing levels in the judicial system are increasing.
The first report should be submitted by the end of March 2007.
Payments can be interrupted, suspended or cancelled, if the Commission suspects or detects cases of irregularities or fraud, including corrupt practices.
There is still a risk that preparations for the management of agricultural funds may not have been completed by the time of accession.
As a precaution, we have adopted specific provisions to ensure the proper management of these funds by Bulgaria and Romania.
This gives both countries time to complete preparations in 2007.
I am therefore confident that Bulgaria and Romania will enrich the Union without compromising the proper functioning of EU policies and institutions.
The interests of the EU and our citizens can be assured and EU taxpayers’ money protected.
On the basis of the progress made, our report shows that both countries will be ready to join the Union in 2007.
I trust that we can count on your support for facilitating a swift and successful ratification of the Accession Treaty in the remaining Member States.
On behalf of the Presidency, I wish to thank the European Parliament for its considerable input with regard to both countries’ accession to the Union.
The European Union has closely followed the progress that both countries have made in finally adopting reforms and meeting their membership obligations under the Treaty of Accession.
While the European Council that met in June commended Bulgaria and Romania on the reform measures they had recently implemented, it appealed to both countries to make even more of an effort to solve, decisively and without delay, the problems still remaining, which were mentioned in the Commission’s last progress report produced in May.
The meetings of the parliamentary joint committees have also had a key role in this work.
The Presidency notes the recommendations in the Commission’s reports.
We would like to commend both Bulgaria and Romania on their endeavours to fulfil the demands of accession.
Bulgaria and Romania should now address all outstanding problems without delay.
The Council notes the Commission’s plans regarding protective measures and stepped-up monitoring that may be introduced on the basis of Articles 37 and 38 of the Accession Treaty, should there be insufficient progress in these areas.
Mr&#160;President, although the Union’s future enlargement has more to do with the next topic on the agenda, I would like to say here that the European Council confirmed in June 2006 that it would adhere to existing commitments.
Bulgaria and Romania are two major nations with a European culture, and on accession they will become members of our European family.
Our group – like the others – already has national Members from Bulgaria and Romania: the Bulgarians are represented by Mrs&#160;Cappone, and the Romanians by Mr&#160;Marinescu, and over the past few months we have developed a good level of cooperation.
On behalf of the PPE-DE Group, I should like to express our appreciation to both Bulgaria and Romania – to the governments, but in particular to the people in both countries – for the huge efforts they have made since the fall of Communism.
It would be irresponsible, not only with respect to the people of the current European Union but also with respect to Bulgaria and Romania, to gloss over all the work that still needs to be done.
We will be reminded of this by the fact, amongst other things, that both countries will have to present a progress report in six months' time.
To the people of Bulgaria and Romania I have to say, in the midst of all the joy at accession, that the European Union you are joining on 1&#160;January 2007 is not some kind of heaven on earth.
We have seen in other countries how, once they have become Members of the European Union, their enthusiasm has waned considerably.
Of course, you do not have to be enthusiastic about Europe, but you should always stand by it, and we must all be aware that we in the European Union can only have a shared future in the 21st century as a Union based on shared values that is capable of taking action.
I hope that this awareness will never be lost in the two countries that are now joining, Bulgaria and Romania, or in the other countries of the European Union.
Mr&#160;Barroso quite rightly spoke of the institutional consolidation of the European Union that must precede each enlargement.
We want the principles and substance of the constitutional treaty, including its values, to become a legal and therefore political reality.
There are still several issues that need to be resolved in Bulgaria and Romania.
This is not the time or the place to discuss the various problems, however.
Bulgaria and Romania are part of Europe, and I agree with Mr&#160;Poettering when he says that we should welcome them.
The men and women who fought against the communist dictatorships in Bulgaria and Romania, the people there who, over the last sixteen years, have had to go through a process of transformation harder than the burdens faced by people in Western Europe in recent years: for all of this, these two countries have deserved to be rewarded with a welcome into the EU.
The people of all our countries are asking whether we are taking on too much, whether we are spending too much money on this, whether this is costing too much, whether all of this is too uncertain.
Every country we welcome into the EU enriches our internal market.
It creates social cohesion, and it helps Europe attain the proportions it needs as an economic area to withstand intercontinental competition in the long run.
I salute, in particular, Meglena Kuneva and Anca Boagiu, who have conducted the detailed negotiations on behalf of their countries like a pair of swans, apparently gliding serenely across the surface of the water but with their feet paddling away ten to the dozen underneath.
I express my thanks to the European Commission, and in particular to Commissioner Rehn, for a difficult task imaginatively tackled and accomplished appropriately under a Finnish Presidency.
Bulgaria and Romania are developing themselves.
Moreover, we recognise that there is a need, as in previous enlargements, for transition periods and safeguard clauses.
The rule of law and social inclusion are fundaments of our Union.
More action needs to be taken by the governments of both countries and the Commission needs to monitor that action on our behalf.
It seems to me that the direction of both countries is the right one.
That was perhaps summed up by the Romanian writer Adrian Marino, when he wrote: – ‘We must bring Europe into our homes’.
But there is work to be done in the European Union, too, to convince our citizens that the cost they are paying for the accession of Romania and Bulgaria is not a net negative.
I hope that is what the Commission President meant when he said that this might be the last enlargement.
We owe our citizens and the citizens of these two future Member States the duty of sorting our Europe’s constitution before we take in further countries.
Firstly, this Parliament has nothing more to say in any case.
For my part, I can assure you that with the 100 pages we have here you would have said no a year ago, but you have to say yes today because you said yes in any case.
You have talked of peace, but it is obvious that the Balkans have a future in the European Union, it is obvious that Romania and Bulgaria have a future in the European Union.
I say to you in all seriousness, if this report had been for Turkey, you would all have said no!
Moreover, for the problems of immigration the Council is incapable of getting the justice and law policy through, of getting it through in the first pillar.
That happened at a time when the disquiet surrounding shortcomings in Romania was at its peak and it was expected that Bulgaria would yield the least problems.
During previous debates on this topic, my group tabled proposals for improvements, among others, further to the illegal payments that are demanded from EU residents of Turkish origin passing through Romania.
Despite all the difficulties, what has actually been achieved in both those countries in the last 12 to 13 years is phenomenal: the change of culture, the change of attitude, the willingness to engage, the openness and transparency.
We also know that many of the problems that beset Romania and Bulgaria are not of their own making, but the result of half a century over which, like us, they were deprived of natural development, of market economics and of free, representative democracy.
All the less so for the fact that while the EU is lecturing Romania and Bulgaria, two countries with European traditions, culture and values, it is at the same time playing a dangerous game over the accession of Turkey, turning a blind eye to Turkey’s attitude to minorities, to democracy, to the plurality of faiths, to women's rights and to its own brutal history.
I believe that these two most European of countries, Romania and Bulgaria will soon become fully-fledged EU Member States alongside the rest of us. &#160;&#160; I am very glad that both the Bulgarian and Romanian governments, on the one hand, and the European Union on the other, have reached a consensus following constructive negotiations on the conditions for Bulgaria’s and Romania’s accession to the EU.
As an MEP representing Slovakia, a country that joined the EU just two years ago, I am pleased that on 1&#160;January 2007 Rumania and Bulgaria will become members of the European Union, and I fully support their accession.
It is also my wish that no one in the Union will regard these new Member States as inferior, and that their sound economies and democratic institutions will continue to show robust growth.
As a full member of the European Union with all of the rights that ensue from such membership, Romania should be in a position to take care of its citizens from the cradle to the grave, as the Romanian Prime Minister put it last week.
Our Romanian and Bulgarian friends are warmly welcome here! &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, a long period of discussion is slowly coming to an end in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on these two countries, whose accession to the EU we have supported from the outset.
There are also several transitional rules for the benefit of both sides, to enable accession to take place without great controversy from the point of view of the EU.
Examples are rules concerning the free movement of workers, and the fact that border controls on persons have not yet been lifted, since these countries are not yet members of Schengen.
I very much welcome the Commission’s confirmation that Bulgarian accession should take place on 1 January 2007.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of Mr&#160;Moscovici, our rapporteur for Romania, who is, unfortunately, unable to be here at this important moment in time.
After everything that has happened, that country’s history, 50 years of dictatorship, 15 years of hard work, it is now being rewarded by the European Union in the shape of membership.
I am also pleased with the President of the Commission’s remark that on the basis of permanent progress those two countries have made, it can now be decided against using this delay option, but simply to make a start on 1&#160;January of next year.
The Commission has indicated that there is plenty of scopefor it to cooperate with these two new Member States in ensuring that the outstanding issues will be carefully resolved in the next few years in a process of verification and cooperation between it and them, on the basis of clear and precisely formulated goals to which both the Commission and the two governments will commit themselves.
Instead, the progress and dynamism present in both countries is now being drawn on in order to get what is left of the accession process out of the way in a thorough manner and to clear the desks as quickly as possible.
In short, congratulations, and thanks, to the Commission, thanks to Commissioner Rehn for all the work he has done over the last few years and congratulations once again to Romania and Bulgaria. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
This does not mean, however, that there would be so much need to influence the Commission on this point, because the report as I have presented it to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and as I present it now here in this sitting, has been prepared in very good cooperation with the European Commission and with Commissioner Rehn himself.
The report has been described as fair but tough: fair because it is based on facts and is constructive; tough because, unfortunately, there is reason for criticism of at least a strong push from Parliament.
The basic conclusion of the report is that we, as the European Parliament, regret that there is a slowdown in reforms.
I compliment the Turkish politicians on their ninth package of legislative reforms and the many proposals that were adopted by Parliament.
Firstly, on freedom of expression, we as a Parliament have already criticised some parts of the new penal code.
Some people have been set free.
I ask the Turkish Government and the Turkish people to see the need for this.
It is important for the freedom of the Turkish people, it is important for the image of Turkey in Europe and the wider world.
Since 1971 seminaries are closed, and for a country that wants to be European, it is very important that it should be as easy to build a Christian church in Turkey as it is to build a Turkish mosque in the rest of the European Union.
We ask it as a Parliament, and Turkey signed, in the revised accession partnership, a commitment to achieve the short-term priorities before the end of 2007, and then we as a Parliament asked Turkey to do what was agreed.
A third situation that worries us is the situation in the south-east.
We strongly condemn it – there is never any excuse for terrorism; but at the same time we ask Turkey to try to find peaceful interlocutors, try to find a political way and invest in the social and economic development of the south-east.
A last major point: Cyprus.
It was agreed at the start of negotiations that there would be no formal recognition ceremony by Turkey of Cyprus but that there would be an Ankara Protocol as a kind of normalisation of relations.
It is of course the responsibility of every Member of Parliament to vote as he or she pleases, but if you ask for my opinion, the text in paragraph 50 is the best text and the one that takes us the furthest.
Every debate is a good opportunity for us to get to know more about Turkey’s accession process, to inspire both the citizens of the EU countries and Turkey to take an active part in this process, and to support the Turkish Government in its accession goals.
Finland, the country holding the Presidency of the Council, will naturally take into consideration the views expressed by the European Parliament.
The Presidency shares the European Parliament’s concern regarding the reform process in Turkey.
Turkey must accelerate the implementation of political reforms and the reform process generally.
Although the situation in Turkey has improved compared with five years ago, the country needs to continue making tangible reforms, especially in the areas of freedom of expression, freedom of religion, cultural rights, women’s rights and action against torture and ill treatment.
Most of these issues have been described as priorities in the Revised Accession Partnership, and Turkey must implement the appropriate action without delay.
At present, the Presidency is awaiting the adoption of the Ninth Reform package regarding Turkish law, whose purpose it is to provide answers to some of the problems that I have just mentioned.
Like Parliament, we are concerned about the situation in South-East Turkey.
In addition to the Copenhagen criteria, Turkey’s progress in the accession process is being judged within the context of the requirements of the Negotiating Framework, which include the implementation of the Additional Protocol to the Ankara Agreement.
Turkey must apply the Protocol fully to all the Member States of the European Union and remove obstacles to the free movement of goods, including transport restrictions.
The initiation of talks fundamentally connected with this issue will depend on how Turkey discharges its contractual obligations towards the Member States.
Progress is being monitored with regard to all the essential issues which were mentioned in the declaration of 21&#160;September 2005 by the European Community and the Member States.
The Union supports Turkey in its aspirations to membership, but progress in the accession negotiations obviously depends very largely on Turkey’s own actions.
Mr President, in the previous debate Mrs&#160;Lehtomäki made a statement on behalf of the Council on the future of enlargement.
Like President Barroso, I welcome the statement and reiterate the Commission’s commitment and our policy of a consolidated enlargement agenda, which covers south-eastern Europe apart from Bulgaria and Romania.
They have the prospect of joining the European Union once they meet the conditions, as promised for the countries of the western Balkans at the Thessaloniki Summit in 2003.
While we prepare internally for a new institutional settlement, the gradual and carefully-managed accession process continues with these countries of south-eastern Europe.
We cannot take a sabbatical from our responsibilities for peace, stability, liberty and democracy.
Let me thank Mr Eurlings for his report, which includes useful elements for the assessment of Turkey’s progress towards accession.
However, we should not lose sight of the progress accomplished in the last decade, nor of our commitments towards Turkey.
The goal of the negotiations started on 3 October 2005 is full EU membership of Turkey, and by its very nature it is an open-ended process with no automatism.
In its own interest, the European Union needs a democratic, stable and increasingly prosperous Turkey.
Turkey’s strategic significance was once again illustrated by its decision to take part in the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon.
It is important that new initiatives are taken and that tangible progress is still achieved before the Commission presents its report on 8 November.
Journalists, authors, publishers and human rights activists still face judicial proceedings for violations of the notorious Article 301 of the Penal Code on the vague grounds of ‘insulting Turkishness’.
I cannot even imagine a Member State in the European Union which does not respect such a fundamental principle as freedom of expression.
That is necessary both for the democratic process in Turkey and for facing tomorrow’s challenges, as well as for Turkey’s reconciliation with its neighbours, including Armenia.
Turkey and the EU unequivocally condemn the PKK, and I deeply deplore the loss of innocent lives in the attacks that have taken place throughout the year in Turkey.
We expect Turkey soon to adopt a comprehensive strategy targeting all the needs of this region: economic, social and cultural.
The Commission fully supports the serious efforts of the Finnish Presidency to overcome the stalemate on the trade regulation, thus helping the Council and the EU Member States to live up to their commitments.
To conclude, it is in our mutual interest for Turkey to pursue its democratic, societal and economic transformation with the goal of joining the EU.
If Turkey succeeds, with our consistent support, it can become an ever-sturdier bridge between civilisations, at a moment when the relationship between Europe and Islam is the greatest challenge of our time.
Turkey is an important benchmark in this regard and it matters for our own future and for the future of our children and grandchildren.
Unfortunately, the report as it now stands has, on account of the opponents of Turkish accession to the EU, become a cause for disappointment for many of us, including reform-minded Turks, those Europeans who want Turkey as an ally, and not least women in Turkey.
The enlargement strategy is effective in encouraging reforms in candidate states, but it only works if those reforms are also recognised.
If these changes are made, we can keep the Turks in Europe, welcoming this secular state with its Muslim people as our ally in the fight against terrorism and extremism.
If we fail to implement these changes, we will leave reformers in Turkey, millions of men and women, simply out in the cold. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Madam&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, I do not know if the previous speech represented a personal opinion or the opinion of the committee responsible.
It is important to establish that the negotiations are under way and that both sides need to contribute constructively to these.
It is right and necessary to point this out, and to do so on the basis of a number of specific questions relating to human rights, minority rights and freedom of expression and religion.
Parliament stated in a decision at the start of negotiations that the political criteria should be met at the start of negotiations and not at the end.
The negotiation process is the best way of developing a better and stronger relationship with Turkey, and, while we know that the negotiations will take some time, we remain of the opinion that a critical, yet constructive, dialogue is the best way of bringing that process to a successful conclusion.
We must build on the progress that has been made in recent years, whilst acknowledging that delays have hampered that progress.
Parliament’s special role inside the accession process is surely to promote the growth of parliamentary democracy in Turkey.
Should there be a train crash in Cyprus there would be two trains involved.
One of them carries the efforts of Turkey to create a viable form of European Islam, where the Prophet meets the Enlightenment.
The second train carries European efforts to develop a strong common foreign security and defence policy, a task towards which Turkey will make an extraordinary contribution.
The original report, as submitted by the rapporteur, was critical, yet fair, and we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have managed to reach sound agreements during our discussions, which means that the report can be improved with many amendments.
I very much want the European Parliament to continue to play a role in the reform debate in Turkey by supporting those groups and those people who, day in and day out, are fighting for the same things that we are.
We, as Parliament, must support the DTP’s call for a ceasefire and we must call on the PKK to respond positively to that appeal.
At the same time, the Turkish Parliament has approved the anti-terrorism law in its original wording, despite opposition not only from Europe, but also from the United Nations.
For over 40 years, this country, which is applying for European Union membership, has had an antagonistic attitude towards its neighbours, which include European Union Member States.
For example, the implementation of an obligation to adopt international human rights conventions that has been incumbent on Turkey for more than 50&#160;years by virtue of its membership of the Council of Europe was celebrated as a great success in&#160;2004.
In&#160;1999, the European Council decided that the Copenhagen criteria had to be met before the start of negotiations.
A very important meeting took place yesterday, which demonstrated how important a constructive and positive dialogue between representatives of different religions – between Christians and Muslims – is for all of us.
The Turkish ambassador was also present yesterday at Castel Gandolfo for a meeting with the Pope.
It will be an important trip because, in my view, it will encourage dialogue between Christians and Muslims, between the Muslim majority and the Christian – Catholic, Protestant or Orthodox – minority living in Turkey.
Its aim is to encourage dialogue between Christians and Muslims, between Christianity and Islam, through a strong message from this Parliament.
Let us exclude extremism, let us isolate fundamentalists, and let us hold a dialogue with those who truly want to build peace in the Middle East and Africa.
The progress that that country is making on its journey towards the European Union can be measured principally by the results achieved in the dialogue between religions, in respect for minority rights, and in respect for the civil rights of everyone living in Turkey. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to endorse what Mr&#160;Tajani said.
In this respect – even though there are a few more things we should like to change – the rapporteur has certainly been at pains to make it clear that we do want Turkey to take the path towards EU membership, but that is why we shall not dispense with our legitimate demands – including in Turkey’s interests – as the greatest beneficiary of the process of reform is not the EU, but Turkey itself. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a mystery about the Eurlings report.
It says that human rights and freedom of expression are not adequately respected in Turkey.
We said it in 2004, we asked for acknowledgement of the genocide in 2004 and in 2005 we said it had to be a precondition.
The mystery of the Eurlings report is that we find, for the first time in the history of negotiations, that we have a State that regresses before accession and not afterwards and that tells us accession must be on its terms and not ours.
Nevertheless, I believe that the decision by the Committee on Foreign Affairs tends to be the enemy of the good.
For this reason, I should like to make the following appeal to my fellow Members: anyone wishing to help the debate continue, anyone wishing to make a contribution to change in Turkey, should listen to the voices of the opposition in the country.
I want to see the border between Turkey and Armenia resemble the border between Germany and France one day, but this will require our help.
There is also a political aspect to the obligations, however, and this concerns the fact that the people in the north of the island of Cyprus, the Turkish Cypriots, are waiting for us to keep our side of the bargain and put an end to the economic and educational isolation of the people living in the north of the island.
Turkey must implement the Ankara Protocol, but we must also help put an end to the isolation of the people of Turkish origin in the north of Cyprus. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in order to proceed smoothly on its road towards accession, Turkey needs to do the same as the previous candidate countries and comply with its contractual obligations, such as opening up its ports and airports to Cyprus's ships and aircraft and lifting its veto on Cyprus's participation in international organisations and multilateral treaties.
Nonetheless, the proposal by the Cypriot government for common use of the port of Famagusta under the aegis of the United Nations, with simultaneous monitoring by the European Commission, combined with the return of the fenced off area of Famagusta to its legitimate residents, may help to overcome the present impasse.
We, the Progressive Party of the Working People of Cyprus, are working for the resolution of the Cyprus problem and for respect for the human rights of all Cypriots, both Turkish Cypriots and Greek Cypriots.
At the same time, however, we cannot condone infringement of Turkey's contractual obligations towards the European Union at Cyprus's expense or accept the lack of respect for human rights of all the inhabitants of Turkey and the refusal to acknowledge the genocide of the Armenians.
Turkey illegally occupies Northern Cyprus and believes that it can force the EU to accept this situation.
It is time to speak the truth. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Europe has a long history of relations with Turkey.
Unfortunately, this history consists almost entirely of painful events and acts of injustice.
Turkey is still enforcing an illegal embargo on Armenia and threatening Greece, questioning Greece's right to define the limits of its own territorial waters.
This situation is preposterous.
Turkey poses a threat to stability in this region and we, seemingly blind to this fact, are engaged in negotiations with that country with a view to it achieving membership of the European Union.
I do not agree that Turkey can play the role of a bridge between Europe and the Muslim world.
The fact that it was the Prime Minister and not a Turkish religious spokesman who criticised the Pope shows that the sacred and the secular – politics and religion – are still unacceptably mixed together in that country.
This paragraph is the outcome of broad agreement and must remain as it stands.
Consequently, it must not be changed in one direction or another with amendments that have been tabled.
Having said that, we must be strict in our judgments and demand that the Turkish Government, together with all its state machinery and institutions and Turkish society, make a serious commitment to those areas in which progress has to be more significant and constant.
Those areas include civil, political and social rights, freedom of expression and, particularly, the rights of minorities, primarily those of the Kurdish minority and of women, who are in fact in the majority.
To conclude, let us try to keep to the point and to be credible and effective in continuing to positively influence internal developments in this country and its external role in establishing peace and stability in an explosive region where the most serious threats to peace are concentrated. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, those who have voted for opening negotiations with Turkey have already, on several occasions, explained the good reasons for achieving its accession in the near future, so there is no need for me to repeat them.
The question about Turkey is, in fact, also a question about ourselves and what we want to be. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week, together with other colleagues from the Subcommittee on Human Rights, I was in Akari province in the extreme south-east of Turkey, just a few mountain peaks away from Iraq and Iran.
We also met young girls fighting against family feudalism, fighting against economic and social isolation and everyday violence.
There are many extremely precise facts bearing witness to the violence of the security forces, including against farmers, but also to extra-judicial arrests and the torture of young people as in Diyarbakir this year.
The forced resignation of the public prosecutor of Van for demonstrating the responsibility of army members for the Semdinli bombing was also very traumatic.
The PKK must call a unilateral ceasefire.
If that call is heeded and kept, as we hope, it will have to be followed by a wide-ranging political proposal.
The deteriorating situation in the south-east is affecting the human rights situation in the country as a whole.
The situation in the south-east is also rekindling a nationalism that is clearly and sometimes violently opposed to democratic aspirations.
No, Turkey continues to provocatively ignore all these decisions and you continue along exactly the same lines.
Fourthly, because we radically disagree with the indirect reference to paragraph&#160;51 on border difficulties between Greece and Turkey and with the Helsinki conclusions referring them to the International Court&#160;... &#160;&#160; Mr President, let me say at the outset that, as a member of the European Parliament’s High Level Contact Group for relations with Northern Cyprus, I am clearly aware of the sense of isolation the Turkish Cypriots feel in light of the rejection of the Annan Plan.
However, Turkey too has serious obligations.
I also feel that Turkey must consider repealing clause 301 of its Penal Code, which is being used to charge dozens of Turkish writers with insulting Turkishness.
But in the past the Turks have not had to contend with the European Union.
Perhaps the Turks will have to learn the hard way that membership of the European Union means losing control of your own destiny. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the commencement of negotiations with Turkey was an historic mistake, for the European Union, as the name suggests, is a European project.
The best thing for the EU to do is to demonstrate who is the boss in the negotiation process, but the fact is that, for the moment, the opposite appears to be the case.
The report is the most critical of all those that have been produced in this House over the last few decades.
In particular, it includes three points that are of decisive importance to us: the reference to the European Union’s absorption capacity as a criterion; the crucial need for Turkey to treat Cyprus, a full member of the European Union, normally; and the recognition of the Armenian genocide as a prerequisite for accession.
I must point out to my fellow French Members from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament that that was part of their programme for the 2004 European elections.
The adoption of this report – and we do want to see it adopted – must have political consequences.
I would begin by asking the Commission to stop playing hide-and-seek and to produce, on 8&#160;November, an authentic report and not a children’s story, as it is wont to do in this area.
Aside from the case of Turkey, it is the entire enlargement process that is at stake.
Let me remind you of our position, which has been clear since the start.
Our long-term aim is to have Turkey join because we believe – and this is a genuine political project – in a Europe that is multicultural, secular but multi-faith, peaceful and open to the rest of the world.
While we, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, have sent out clear signals to Turkey regarding, in particular, human rights, women’s rights, minority rights and the recognition of Cyprus, we have done so in the same constructive spirit.
On the subject of Armenia now, Mr&#160;Eurlings heckled me just now, and I should like to make myself very clear.
Parliament has recognised the Armenian genocide, and there will never be any revisionism in this Chamber.
We have a duty to remember the one and a half&#160;million Armenians who were massacred in 1915, that is to say before the Turkish Republic under Atatürk was born.
We have a duty to remember not only in Europe, but also worldwide, and that is why we have asked for the UN not to delay in sending a committee of international experts on this matter to Turkey.
Yet, to use this tragedy, as some people are doing, in order to thwart Turkey’s candidature, or to half-open the door to a vulgar form of Islamophobia, is a trap that we do not wish to fall into.
I can assure you that it is a difficult line: we will not demand the recognition of the Armenian genocide as a prerequisite, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is nonetheless quite clear that, when the time comes to review the situation prior to accession, this sensitive point will weigh very heavily in the balance, and Turkey knows it.
For the time being, we expect Turkey to fulfil this duty to remember, to consolidate its stabilising role in the Middle East and to make progress in relation to&#160;… &#160;&#160; Mr President, our European Union exists because it is firmly based on strict adherence to our European principles and values.
Let me remind some of my colleagues that we will bring about reforms in Turkey by telling the Turkish people the truth and not hiding the truth from them. &#160;&#160; The June List’s representatives in the European Parliament voted against the proposal to begin accession negotiations with Turkey.
However, we should remember that we ought to ask ourselves where our fundamental interests lie.
However the European Union’s fundamental interest lies in countries such as Turkey or Ukraine moving closer to it.
In this respect, the European Union has not been entirely honest.
We should state openly what effects the accession of these large countries would have on the European Union, given that this slight dishonesty is not lost on our partners, including Turkey. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Turkey is not a European country.
We must stop running down a blind alley at whose end may lie a rejection of Turkey’s accession by the Member States and peoples of the EU, with dire consequences for Turkey’s inner stability.
For this reason, we must take care not to fall below the line taken in the Eurlings report, which I rejected in committee as I did not believe it went far enough.
This line should represent our consensus, however, otherwise the signal sent to Turkey would be disastrous. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, in December&#160;2004, with 402 votes in favour, this Parliament took a clear decision to open accession negotiations with Turkey.
Today we are debating the report on Turkey’s progress towards accession, a report whose intention should actually be constructive monitoring of negotiations with Turkey and of its accession process.
The same Socialist Group – Mrs&#160;De&#160;Keyser, Mr&#160;Wiersma, both highly respected Members – is now completely opposing what it supported recently in committee.
I should like to say to Mrs&#160;De&#160;Keyser that this is not what I understand by ‘clarity’.
We must ask ourselves some critical questions, the most important of which is whether we have taken the people with us on this enlargement tour, this negotiating tour of Turkey.
I should like to add that I believe we should be conducting this debate in Brussels rather than in Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, problems cannot be solved unless they are addressed.
In fact, virtually no progress has been made there in almost all the politically relevant fields – and in some cases the situation has even deteriorated.
It is time for our message to be clear and in keeping with the decisions adopted.
As Commissioner Rehn said earlier, the principle of international law must be respected.
This of course applies to Turkey, but it also applies to the European Union.
We need to remain constant in our support for Turkey's strategic objective of accession to the European Union.
The syndrome of the Treaty of Sèvres.
Our specific amendment does not impose new preconditions on Turkey.
We are against the acknowledgement of the genocide of the Armenians and the Greeks of Pontos as a political prerequisite. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, this report and this debate are, in my view, a sign that Europe is closing in on itself.
Some Members are at least brave enough to say it more openly: they regard Europe as a religious entity and area, which means that political Europe is dead.
That is the great offer that we should be making to Turkey and, just at a time when Islamic fundamentalism is rising throughout the world, we should insist on it and put it in practice in a report to speed up the accession process.
In fact, different solutions are obviously presenting themselves here: not Turkey’s full, political accession, but rather enhanced cooperation agreements, all things that in themselves do not have the strength of the political message or of full accession.
If we follow that path – which, unfortunately, was also suggested by President Barroso in his statement yesterday – we shall bear the responsibility not only for pushing Turkey away, but also for pushing away political Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the stated EU position and that of my party is to support Turkish EU membership.
Recent Marshall Fund of Germany polls in Turkey have shown it to be the most anti-American and anti-Israeli country amongst EU and candidate countries; but more worrying in my view is large Turkish support for theocratic Iran.
But non-recognition of the Republic of Cyprus, where Turkey continues to station troops since the 1974 invasion, and the failure to implement the Ankara Agreement on the enlarged customs union to allow Cypriot ships to dock at Turkish ports, is currently a critical issue before the European Union.
We can therefore be sure that EU accession negotiations will be very lengthy, and I for one fully support the Eurlings report. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank Mr&#160;Eurlings for his report.
We should not set higher requirements for Turkey or subject it to special treatment, as has been suggested in this debate today.
Right now, it is the EU that is the guarantor of progress in Turkey, not only through the encouragement we provide, but also through our demands in relation to issues such as human rights.
Turkey should carry out the necessary reforms and face up to its own past in the same way as other European countries have done and continue to do.
However, the European Parliament cannot set accession criteria for Turkey that are based on historical and moral factors if such criteria were not applied to other countries applying for European Union membership.
Let us not waste this pro-European potential! &#160;&#160; Mr President, I spent last week in Turkey with members of the Human Rights Subcommittee.
We were there to evaluate progress on human rights issues and the effects of reforms on the ground.
On balance, Mr&#160;Eurlings has done an exceptional job in producing a tough but fair report on the story of Turkish accession so far.
Article 301 of the penal code remains in place to punish those responsible for ‘a public denigration of Turkishness or State authorities’.
We understand that, now that the active phase of negotiations has started, Parliament needs to be frank about progress in its reports.
However, our criticisms must always be balanced, fair and honest, recognising achievements as well as shortcomings.
We cannot push for enlargement on such a large scale as would be the case with Turkey and at the same time see through the question of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
We should be listening a lot more carefully to public opinion and to the ideas of the people.
Perhaps, however, we will have the answer to this later on. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the accession negotiations under way with Turkey should continue.
Turkey should be treated in the same way as any country we have negotiated with in the past.
Turkey is a country that has taken on the incredibly difficult task of separating Islam from the structures of government.
I would particularly like to draw your attention to the issue of civil rights and liberties.
Progress in this field will be judged on the basis of hard facts.
Finally, although we may be discussing Turkey, let us not forget that it is equally important for Europe to open association negotiations with Ukraine in the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, as this debate draws to a close, I should like to remind the House once more that Mr&#160;Eurlings has presented a good, constructive report, even if it has not been seen that way and has been criticised in Turkey.
The fact that the outcome of negotiations is open and that they could – and should, in my opinion – result in alternatives to full membership is nothing new, but rather the subject of discussion in the Council and Parliament.
Turkey must recognise and respect human rights, freedom of religion and minority rights.
It is worth saying once again that the European Council confirmed in summer 2006 that it would adhere to existing commitments regarding enlargement, and the work continues on this basis.
At the same time as the accession negotiations are taking place, it is also important to find a comprehensive solution to the Cyprus question within the framework of the United Nations.
Even though we do not necessarily agree on everything contained in the report, I believe that it is important for Parliament to take up this issue and to clarify our own point of view by means of its contribution.
The Commission will, of course, take account of this debate when it presents its own report on 8&#160;November.
It will also take into account the reports drafted by the committees of your Parliament, as well as the Bozkurt report.
It is therefore important to always bear in mind the issues involved in this project.
The decision taken on 3&#160;October 2005 certainly reflects the desire to fulfil our commitments, but it also conveys a powerful mutual interest.
I believe that Turkey obviously needs Europe in order to continue becoming modern and democratic and supporting the development of its economy, but I believe that Europe also needs Turkey at its side, as a focal point for peace, stability, democracy and prosperity.
Current events, as someone also said, are enough to demonstrate each day the strategic value of this exercise.
Whether we are talking about Iran, Iraq, the Middle East in general, the dialogue between civilisations or the energy crisis, Turkey always seems to be a key country, a vital asset to Europe.
That does not, of course, in any way exempt Turkey from the obligations that any accession candidate must fulfil, and the European Union will make sure of that.
I often have the feeling, and not only in this Chamber, that, when we debate this matter, it is as though we were evaluating Turkey for accession today, when that will actually take place tomorrow.
I should like all the same to point out – and I am very mindful of this point, as is Europe, because it comes under the duty to remember that is part of our legacy of values – that this issue is not, nor has ever been, a condition laid down by the European Council for the opening of negotiations or for accession itself, whether in the case of Turkey or of any other candidate country.
The Commission has always been clear on this issue.
The prospect of Turkey’s joining the EU must lead to an improvement in bilateral relations and to reconciliation, including in relation to the past.
We obviously expect Turkey to treat this issue as an integral part of a free and open public debate in which it must be possible to exchange all points of view.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, there you have the response from the Commission and my impressions after having followed this extremely interesting debate.
I will, of course, report back to Mr&#160;Rehn, and I am convinced that in the next meetings, he will probably be able to come and answer those questions in person. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0429/2006).
Most of these plans – in a preliminary form – are already undergoing public consultation in various Member States such as Austria, Cyprus, Finland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain.
If there are further delays, the Commission will examine the possibility of starting infringement proceedings against the Member States which have delayed, on the basis of Article&#160;226 of the Treaty.
The Commission has already started to evaluate the national allocation plans notified and intends to take decisions on them in the autumn, in other words by the three-month deadline from completion of the plans laid down in the emissions trading directive.
This will allow the Commission to take decisions on most of the emission rights market before Christmas and to complete the evaluation procedure by the spring of 2007.
The Commission cannot, of course, decide on the merits of evaluations under way, but will use every political and legal means at its disposal in order to ensure that all the plans are in keeping with the Kyoto commitments and the confirmed data on emissions for 2005, in a bid to safeguard equal terms of competition for companies. &#160;&#160; The whole point of national allocation plans is to ensure that the EU emissions trading schemes deliver the best possible benefits for the climate.
So these two criteria will be very important in making the National Allocation Plans achieve the scarcity that is needed in the market in order to give companies and installations incentives to make the right investment in cutting down carbon dioxide emissions. &#160;&#160; Can the Commissioner comment on the validity and logic of a policy that compels Member States to radically reduce emissions with resulting increases in EU energy prices and lower manufacturing output while, at the same time, we promote trade with and production in China, the world’s greatest polluter, with no enforceable requirements for the suppression of emissions from them.
In the Nordic countries, there are common electricity markets, and the price of emission allowances has been passed on directly to the cost of electricity in the Nordic Power Exchange.
My second point is that enlargement of the Schengen area is a crucial political priority for the European Union and it will remain so.
I can confirm the Commission’s full commitment and my personal commitment to achieving this goal as soon as possible.
Some technical problems have emerged in this first phase of the technical implementation of this very complex system which, as you know, will connect the central part here in Strasbourg to all Member States’ national systems.
There were technical problems with the preparation of the Strasbourg site, but these problems have now been totally solved in close cooperation with the French authorities.
A large majority of Member States have requested at least an extra three months in order to test the connections needed between the central system and the national systems.
A few days ago there was a very fruitful trialogue to try to secure an agreement between the rapporteur, the Council Presidency and myself.
The implementation of national projects has been delayed in all Member States that have asked to join the Schengen area, except one.
Next week the Council of Interior Ministers will probably approve a new timetable for SIS II.
It will approve a proposal for a new timetable, which will be visible, pragmatic and realistic, and will also decide to establish a task force formed by national experts from the Member States to monitor continuously the national implementation of national systems.
The delay has occurred not because of political problems but because of technical problems, and all the Member States have been made aware of them through their national experts cooperating in the Technical Committee. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, thank you for your reply.
When the ministers of the interior and justice discussed the Schengen issue last week in Tampere, there were ideas voiced that this is still a political question and that the new system will not be joined by all countries at one time, but rather whenever they are ready.
As was mentioned previously, there is a second requirement, which is that each of the new Member States must be in a position to adapt its national security and border control measures, as laid down in the Schengen Agreement itself.
If these two conditions are fulfilled, the date laid down by the Council of Ministers will be a firm date for joining Schengen. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to start by giving my sincere thanks for the commitment the Commissioner has shown in connection with the realisation of Schengen.
I have two questions.
This is the main feature that makes me consider Schengen&#160;2 the most advanced proposal yet on the table. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I would like to ask you about security.
For example, I can take the IT scale systems into consideration.
The Commission would draw the honourable Member’s attention to the fact that the Court of Justice also pointed out that under Law&#160;2/2004, which does not rule out renewing the careers of former assistant teachers of foreign language under enhanced conditions, each of the universities in question might retrospectively renew the careers of these teachers.
The Court of Justice nevertheless also held that there was still a need to determine whether or not the measures adopted following the lawful approval of the regulation were actually applied.
From this perspective we are both formally and substantively involved in the trial in question.
Accordingly, the Commission is responsible for resolving this matter and for examining whether the ruling has been applied in full, whether it has resulted in retrospective payment and whether careers have been renewed.
Ladies and gentlemen, in this situation, the decision of the court is final, and the Commission must now examine the relevant facts and decide on what action to take next.
The proposal we got from the Council consists of two parts: one part relates directly to the 2007 budget and the other relates directly to the seven-year period from 2007 to 2013.
The question was also about agencies.
The second part of the proposal consists of reducing posts for the seven-year period.
The Council’s proposal has two parts.
Secondly, the Commission would have to delete 500 additional posts, justified by the Council by the concentration of programmes and new managerial approaches.
If you like, we could provide you today with that package for your information, in order to study the question in more detail.
As an example, the European Commission, as a public civil service, is the cheapest public service in the world.
In our budget all three institutions – the Council, Parliament and the Commission – only take up about 5% of the budget for administrative expenditures, while in most of our Member States they take up four or five times more.
Inside is part of our so-called productivity gain programme, which was introduced in 2002 as part of the reform.
This year we have again been offered 801 posts by the Council, without any addition for the salaries.
This is especially true when a researcher or scientist comes to Brussels on an invitation from the Commission, for example, to evaluate research and scientific projects.
The Commission has prepared the simplification procedures and they were approved in May.
The package is very good, but now much will depend on whether the Finnish Presidency will approve it and on the negotiations between the Council and Parliament, while it remains a Council decision.
The creation of this budget line reflects the Commission’s policy of administrative rigour and transparency, to clear up all files, mostly relating to the years before 2000.
That is mainly because we are now introducing a new accrual-based accounting system which allows us, and compels us, to be more transparent and more rigorous with our accounting system.
This proposal for a new budgetary line was presented in the amended Budget 5, to the budget line 40, and lists the following five types of operations which we will be looking into.
Each year, the Commission will include this budgetary line in its PDB proposal, as it is now common practice to write off non-recoverable expenditure and not leave it in suspense accounts indefinitely, which was the practice in the past.
The definition of a suspense account is that it is not just a bank account, but accounting records, in which the Commission’s annual financial statements are listed outside the EU budget accounts because they correspond to operations which are waiting to be regularised from an accounting point of view, but cannot be attributed by any specific EU budget line for various reasons explained above.
There is therefore no link with the bank accounts mentioned in my answer of 2 July this year, where the accounts were opened or managed by staff other than the accounting officer, both inside and outside the territory of the European Union.
It was presented in good time for the suspense account to be cleared up before the end of the present financial year.
For example, funds lost following bankruptcies amount to about EUR 1.3 million, concerning mainly EUR 1&#160;million in Kazakhstan in 1996.
Funds lost from burdens of the past, for example, amount presently to EUR 3.5 million from imprest accounts held outside the European Union and only EUR 100&#160;000 from imprest accounts held by representations.
All these amounts relate to years before 2000.
Finally, I just want to say that the creation of this budget line is not only part of the current process to modernise the Commission’s accounting system; it also reflects the Commission policy of administrative rigour and transparency to clear up all old files, which will become common practice from 2006, and we will do it every year.
The free movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by Community law.
After enlargement in 2004, despite the transitional arrangements for the free movement of workers from eight new countries, the EU saw increased mobility from new Member States.
However, in the report we published recently on the functioning of the transitional arrangements, the Commission pointed out that flows from the EU-10, the new Member States, had been fairly limited in relation to the overall working-age population and that they are balanced, at least in part, by mobility from the original 15.
The report shows that migration flows are driven by factors related to supply and demand conditions, both in sending and receiving countries.
Moreover, and more importantly, as pointed out in the report, rather than seeking permanent employment in another country, a significant percentage of migrant workers stay in the receiving country for a limited period only.
It should also be noted that although the ‘old’ Member States attract talented people from the new Member States, the United States of America proves to be the most popular destination for tertiary students or educated people from the new Member States.
The problem of brain-drain, insofar as it exists, seems more linked to the salary differential between the country of origin and destination countries than to the quality of the education systems in migrants’ countries of origin.
The answer to the issue lies in the good use of the significant opportunities that will be provided by the structural funds for the 2007 to 2013 period.
The structural funds will bring a substantial contribution to the economies of new Member States and, if used well, should provide the means to ensure steady growth and job creation.
The progressive convergence of the new Member States’ economies with those of older Member States should reduce the existing salary differential and therefore eliminate a major reason for brain-drain.
The Commission, rather than supporting the creation of a special fund or efforts to regulate migration, would therefore encourage new Member States to use the structural funds effectively.
When I was in France and Germany they talked about the brain drain to the United States.
So either we are aware of the problems and the lack of competitiveness, the lack of value placed on knowledge or the lack of respect for knowledge in Europe, and improve conditions for intellectual property for patents on this continent for so many issues connected to innovation and the transfer of knowledge into real life, the real economy, production and services, or we will comment and lament later on, and maybe even more, because time is passing quickly and globalisation is really influencing our lives.
All our policies, programmes, strategies aim towards this goal.
I do not want to anticipate developments in the Commission, but in a few weeks’ time we would like to propose, for example, the establishment of a European institute of technology.
The Commission has always argued in favour of openness or at least gradual opening rather than moratoria.
The report on the second anniversary of enlargement showed that those that opened their markets benefited, which confirms that until now integration in Europe has proved to be a win-win situation.
Last night there was a debate in this House on a European qualifications framework, which should create the basic matrix for comparison and transfer of qualifications between different autonomous national qualification systems or qualification frameworks.
These economic migrants are exactly the same as Lithuanians going to other countries in the European Union, which is referred to as the free movement of persons rather than economic migration.
There are many examples of how either we proceed together in order to release the potential which we have in our Member Sates and our universities in the new generation of students and researchers, or we are lost with the lack of growth, the lack of new and better jobs.
Even in the programmes for which I am responsible, we do not stimulate or motivate third-country nationals to leave their home states, but rather to go back and build up their societies and economies in close partnership with European countries, European institutions or universities.
After two years of membership of the Union, it is becoming more and more evident that the Europeanisation of conditions and prospects for young people is there, but it is a process; it takes time.
The much-quoted, miraculous examples of Ireland or Finland are just logical results of long-term strategic policies where education, training, knowledge and research are at the centre and remain at the centre.
That percentage is encouraging, although it is far from our objective of giving all European citizens the ability to communicate in at least two other languages in addition to their mother tongue.
To pursue that objective, the Commission promotes language learning and linguistic diversity through its programmes for education and training as well as through many other exchange programmes.
Lingua 1 action under the Socrates Programme is aimed at developing and disseminating innovative techniques and examples of good practice in language teaching.
The Commission is bound by its legal obligation to translate into all official languages Community legislation and the related documents that are necessary to enable citizens, companies and other stakeholders to enjoy their rights and comply with their obligations.
That principle applies to all official languages. &#160;&#160; In my experience many people learn foreign languages, but not so many of them can speak them in everyday life.
That would be very useful.
On your other remark, Commissioner, according to figures from InfoPoint Brussels, there are approximately 25% more EU publications in old Member State languages than publications in the new Member State languages.
We need, therefore, to function fully in this multilingual environment, because it defines us and provides us with a link to citizens.
Mr Guardans Cambó, in its amended proposal for a regulation laying down the general rules for the granting of Community financial aid, the Commission envisages paying special attention to projects concerned with the elimination of bottlenecks, with the cross-border sections and with the waterways, too.
There is no question of our distributing European money across all of the projects without having the Member States make a significant contribution to our priorities.
However, the Commission does, of course, arrange regular meetings with the national control bodies in order to harmonise the application of the regulation and to strengthen the contacts between these bodies so that they will share data relating to the management of complaints.
I am going to present a communication to the European Parliament and to the Council in January 2007 on the workings and application of this regulation.
The Commission would like, in particular, to examine the position regarding denied boarding, cancellations, delays and the application of the regulation in such cases.
The results of this study will be incorporated into my communication.
I am grateful to you for your question because I, for my part, am really very anxious to ensure that these passenger rights now become a reality within the European area. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, can the Commission give me some additional information regarding the amendments that it plans to make to the regulation on air passenger rights in order, firstly, to take account of the hundreds of complaints that have been lodged, for example, at regional consumption centres and that testify both to the serious shortcomings, and to the poor application, of the existing regulations on the rights of these passengers?
This document was distributed in July&#160;2006.
I must say, for example, that we were pleased to observe a sharp decline in the practice of overbooking.
You are right, though: the events that took place this summer must also be taken into account.
Once I truly have an overall view of things, I hope to be able to come before this Parliament and to explain to it both what improvements have been made and what remains for us to do to ensure that these new rules are applied effectively.
I am grateful to you for having asked that question; it is also an incentive for me to demonstrate even greater vigilance. &#160;&#160; It is just a question about airline operators.
It is not just a question of passengers having rights; it is a question of airline operators and the national authorities being able to really make the people concerned aware of those rights.
I personally believe that, in the light of this study, we shall be far more able in future to monitor passenger information, which is in fact a prerequisite for enforcing these new rules. &#160;&#160; Questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see Annex).
Questions 63, 64 and 77 will not be answered because they deal with topics that are already included in the order of business for the current part-session.
That concludes questions to the Commission. &#160;&#160; We now continue with the debate on the report by Karin Jöns on the establishment of a Community programme for employment and social solidarity. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the fact that the European institutions have finally adopted a common position on the PROGRESS programme, which deals with employment and social solidarity, is a very important step towards drawing up and implementing a coherent and transparent social policy in the European Union and translating it into the national social policies of the Member States.
The PROGRESS programme not only simplifies and puts the specific elements of this policy in order, but it also integrates them into a single framework.
This is something that had been lacking previously and which will be the key result of our joint debate.
Employment is the main challenge currently facing the European Union, its decision-makers and its citizens.
Social security and social integration can be treated as two separate fields but it was probably appropriate to include them both under one section, as social security can be viewed as one of the prerequisites for successful social integration.
Good working conditions complement a policy that aims to improve employment not only in terms of quantity but also in terms of quality.
The fight against discrimination and the promotion of diversity represent the practical implementation of the principle of positive tolerance and pluralism which should be, and I think is, one of the hallmarks of the European Union.
Creating full gender equality amounts to the implementation of a principle that was adopted in the Treaty of Rome, but which has not been fully implemented until now.
As far as access to the programme is concerned, it is right to list the institutions and organisations that are entitled to it.
The PROGRESS programme will make a key contribution to achieving the objectives of our social agenda. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, we, too, welcome this report on PROGRESS.
I am pleased that my fellow Members have put the brakes on the Commission’s rationalisation pressure, or are set to do so, and have insisted on an increase in funding for PROGRESS.
It was a success for Parliament that it managed to push through obligatory gender mainstreaming in all programme areas.
Admittedly we did not succeed in pushing through an independent action programme, but we did push through a cross-cutting task. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the PROGRESS programme plays an important role in promoting employment and social solidarity and it is all the more important as, increasingly, the drive to put profits before people excludes and marginalises so many.
We are disappointed that Parliament's proposals were not accepted in their entirety and that the Council decided to weaken the programme in the areas of equality, migrant rights and, crucially, in relation to the budget.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts to strengthen the programme and I hope that in the future we can work together to prioritise EU action to combat social exclusion. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to express my support for all the activities of the European institutions intended to foster growth in the fields of employment and social solidarity and especially for those activities related to PROGRESS, the new Community programme we are currently discussing.
I hope that instead, it will contribute directly to changing the difficult situation that many European Union countries face in this area.
In Poland, for example, the employment rate stands at barely 51% for men and 46% for women.
It seems very clear that it is absolutely vital to provide support in the field of employment, especially in the new Member States.
The problem of poverty and social exclusion is another very important matter.
In Poland, over 10% of the population live below the poverty line.
Wealthy Europe ought to show more solidarity towards social groups which find themselves in a very difficult financial situation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur for her work on PROGRESS, a new and comprehensive structure for social solidarity.
For many years, social partners have been viewing social funding, human resources and even goodwill as a cake for which they, like hungry children, have felt compelled to compete.
Needs change and new needs arise.
I welcome this new Community programme, which brings together four previous programmes and seeks to streamline them and to provide more money for their implementation.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Jöns, my own Group, Commissioner Špidla and the Council for largely agreeing the amendments which Parliament put forward and which the Commission fought hard for.
Hopefully the achievement of gender mainstreaming, at least in this programme, will ensure that gender mainstreaming is part of all policies developed by the European Union and the Member States. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, implementation of the Lisbon Strategy is a very ambitious objective that the leaders of the European Union have set the Member States.
I would remind you that these rates are set at 70% for men, 60% for women and 50% for the 55 - 64 age group.
However, there are countries, especially amongst the new Member States of the European Union, that are a long way from achieving the aims of this strategy.
Bearing this in mind, I must once again applaud the initiative to create PROGRESS, a new employment and social solidarity programme for the Community.
As a member of the PPE-DE Group, I would like to stress at this juncture that ever since the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs began its work, my group has been in favour of increasing funding for specific fields of action while, at the same time, decreasing the 10% target reserve which was stipulated in the draft programme.
The PPE-DE Group specifically stressed the need to decrease the beneficiaries’ own contributions.
Fortunately, this increase has already been agreed within the framework of an interinstitutional agreement and included in the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective.
The low level of employment, especially amongst disabled people, is a particular problem in my country and I hope that thanks to the PROGRESS programme, we will be able to remedy this situation within the next seven years. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Jöns, on the efficacy of the enterprise.
The Progress Community programme is a very important tool for achieving the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy in the field of employment and social policy.
We need to emphasise that the reference to full and equal access for disabled persons to all activities funded under the Progress programme helps to achieve the basic objectives of the programme, in other words combating discrimination and social integration.
Finally, I wish to emphasise the need for non-governmental organisations representing persons with disabilities to participate at regional, national and European level in the works provided for in the programmes, which are designed to transfer best practices and exchange information and raise public awareness about integration and social protection issues. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like firstly to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Jöns, the Commissioner and the Council on having worked so quickly and so well.
Thanks to them, Europe will have this instrument from 1&#160;January, and I hope that it will be, as we have said, a leap forward in terms of improving the coherence and complementarity of the existing programmes.
That process obliges us to implement an economic reform and, undoubtedly, a modernisation of Europe, but at the same time to remember that, in order to ensure that the economic reform is a success, we must build a more cohesive and inclusive society.
Europe has much to say and much to do and, although it is clearly still the Member States which are building their welfare states, Europe offers added value in the form of coherence and intelligence and helps our Member States to deal with the immense challenges facing us in this era of globalisation.
All in all, we have before us a programme that can be realised only through collaboration across Europe, something that deserves our support in every area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am going to talk solely about actions aimed at equality between men and women.
Ladies and gentlemen, when in the middle of 2004 we all hoped that the European Commission would launch a new action plan for equality between men and women, we were surprised to find that, instead, the Commission proposed PROGRESS, a programme for promoting employment and solidarity, which included actions to promote equality between men and women but within a broader framework of social action.
An important and positive negotiation therefore began, which has been maintained throughout the parliamentary procedure that is ending today, with results that we can describe as more than reasonable.
Actions aimed at equality between men and women are being kept within PROGRESS, and that is something that we do not find satisfactory.
The debate is closed.
Pericles, a Community programme for exchange, assistance and training in the protection of the euro against counterfeiting, was established by a Council decision in 2001 and is designed to support and supplement the measures undertaken by the Member States to protect the euro against counterfeiting.
The Pericles programme covers a broad range of actions organised not just within the EU, but also in third or candidate countries.
In addition, Pericles assists the increased effectiveness of cooperation between law enforcement agents and representatives of the judiciary and financial institutions.
Since early summer 2003, the number of counterfeit euro banknotes detected in circulation has stabilised at about 50&#160;000 a month, a level below the pre-euro levels, lower than the US dollar and extremely low compared to the 9&#160;million genuine euro banknotes in circulation.
The Pericles programme is playing a significant role in achieving results in the protection of the euro and the fight against the crime of counterfeiting.
There is clearly a need for continued joint efforts to combat this form of crime.
The evaluators concluded that the programme did indeed improve awareness, its target groups have been reached, especially law enforcement officials, and its activities and information exchanges were considered relevant to the objectives of the programme.
Pending an agreement on the Community financial perspectives for the period 2007-2013, the Council initially decided to extend the Pericles programme for one year only, until 2006, but made a political commitment to the continuation of the programme.
Consequently, building on the success the programme has demonstrated, in May 2006 the Commission tabled a proposal for a Council decision concerning the extension of the Pericles programme for the period 2007-2013.
The yearly amount remains unchanged, approximately EUR&#160;1&#160;million, leading to an overall reference amount of EUR 7 million.
The Commission’s proposal for extension until 2013 also reflects the practical convenience of fitting in with the duration of the Community’s financial framework.
Once more I would like to thank Parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, for their attention to the protection of this important element of the common European identity and heritage that is its common currency.
The public authorities at national and European level, as well as industry, have to keep up their efforts and continue cooperation and the exchange of know-how.
It is through our combined efforts that we will be able to protect the interests of tradesmen, consumers and the economy in general against illicit gain from the counterfeiting of our money. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is very important in terms of maintaining the citizens’ confidence in the single currency.
The Pericles programme is intended to support and complement the actions introduced by the Member States and by the existing programmes for protecting the euro by means of exchanges, assistance and training with a view to protecting our single currency against counterfeiting.
As we know, the programme was established by means of the Council Decision of 17&#160;December 2001, which stated that assessment reports on the programme must be presented, accompanied by a proposal on its continuation or adaptation.
The first report was published and presented to Parliament and the Council on 30&#160;November 2004.
Then, on 8&#160;April, the Commission presented a proposal on the basis of which the Council extended the programme to 2006, providing it with a budget of EUR 1&#160;million and requiring a detailed report on the results of the programme to be presented to Parliament and the Commission.
The results of the Pericles programme so far are hopeful, as indicated in the six-monthly report of the European Central Bank on the counterfeiting of the euro.
As the Commissioner has already said, 50&#160;000 notes of our currency are counterfeited each month, while there are 9&#160;000 million genuine notes in circulation.
Between January and June of this year, 300&#160;000 counterfeit notes were withdrawn from circulation.
Twelve per cent of all counterfeit notes were 100 euro notes, while 500 euro notes represented just 1%.
It is of crucial importance that the Community legislator ensure that the extension of the programme be properly linked both to the financial perspective and to the introduction of the euro in the new States.
I should have been with the victims of terrorism from my country, but I am here out of respect for all of you.
The two Pericles reports should have been voted on this morning, and here it is in black and white, Mr President.
By this I mean the technical measures that have been taken and are still being taken in the case of renewal, on the one hand, and training and exchanges on the other.
I am obliged to the Commission and the rapporteur for taking the opportunity this presents to set in motion the new Pericles programme, which runs until 2013.
I consider it particularly important that new priorities are being set, for example in the field of practical training and of personnel exchanges and, looking ahead to the new generation of euro notes, specific training in the new technical aspects.
I also welcome the extension to countries wishing to introduce the euro, that is to say, to the partner countries in which counterfeiting is in fact taking place, and also specifically to groups of people who have not been covered up to now to the same extent as by the first part, when the programme was used particularly for law-enforcement authorities.
We must now appeal to the Member States to make optimum use of the programme, so that we can look to the future with optimism and make the euro the safest currency in the world. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to endorse the Council decision of 30&#160;January 2006 amending and extending Decision 2001/923/EC establishing an exchange, assistance and training programme for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting, for which I am a shadow rapporteur.
The main aim of the programme is, by means of exchange, assistance and training, to ensure uniform protection of the euro in all Member States while taking account of the individual situation in each country.
In May this year the Commission presented an evaluation document that was generally favourable, because of the major contribution made by the programme in protecting the euro and fighting counterfeiting.
The Pericles programme has allowed us to identify geographical areas, such as Colombia, for instance, where false banknotes tend to be produced easily.
This has been possible because better structures have been created through the setting-up of national centres committed to the fight against the counterfeiting of our currency.
It is important, therefore, to continue to ensure cooperation among the European institutions – the Commission, OLAF, the European Central Bank and Europol – making it possible to identify those areas where counterfeiting of the euro occurs most.
Extending the programme will make it possible to continue surveillance, training and technical assistance, which are vital activities for maintaining the protection of the euro against counterfeiting.
The programme also leads to greater effectiveness by extending technical assistance and even offering financial assistance for cooperation in cross-border operations, thanks to the participation of Europol.
Extending the programme to Member States that are not in the euro zone is necessary and desirable.
The first of these is the use of the euro as legal tender in countries outside the euro zone.
In 2004, the European Parliament adopted the report on medals and coins that resemble euro coins.
Commissioner, could you say whether the Council’s regulation on this subject has had any impact? &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ever since a decision was made to create a common currency in the European Union within the framework of the Maastricht Treaty, it has been necessary to contend with the dangers which arise in connection with the project.
It is extremely important to combat the production of counterfeit euros in order to maintain the citizens' trust in the common currency.
At the moment, it is essential for Community legislation to ensure that the way in which the programme is extended takes account of the deadline for introducing the euro in the new Member States and the entry into circulation of a second series of euro banknotes.
It is also necessary to ensure that competences in this important process do not overlap and to make sure that all the joint activities of the various institutions complement each other and are compatible.
It seems essential for the European Commission and Europol to jointly assess new projects that are to be funded within the framework of the PERICLES programme. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we accept that the euro needs to be adequately protected by means of a range of integrated, effective measures involving close cooperation at both European and international level.
We therefore welcome the creation of the Pericles programme.
We support this detailed report submitted to Parliament on the implementation and results of this programme, and wish to highlight the fact that the results have clearly been good.
Although the number of counterfeit euro coins continues to rise, this figure is still low in comparison with the counterfeiting of the old coins.
This programme has therefore largely achieved its objectives, and has made it possible to identify the places, both within and outside the Community, where production of counterfeit notes is at its highest.
It has also led to considerable structural improvements.
In a number of countries, for example, central bodies charged with combating euro counterfeiting have been set up.
I therefore endorse Mr&#160;Díaz&#160;de&#160;Mera’s excellent report, the aim of which is to extend the programme until the end of 2013 so as to align its period of validity with the financial perspective.
Furthermore – and this is a point I wish to emphasise – it is aimed at extending its application to the non-participating Member States. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the extension of the Pericles programme is undoubtedly important.
With approximately 600&#160;000 counterfeit notes withdrawn from circulation each year, much work certainly remains to be done, all the more so because, in addition to the rising figures for these, coins are increasingly arousing the interest of counterfeiters.
The only way to tackle the increase in counterfeiting is by raising awareness, which was the idea behind organising more workshops on the subject, including by, or in, the EU information outlets.
Many people thought that the EUR&#160;500 notes would be the ones most counterfeited, but we in the PPE-DE Group were of the opinion that the smaller denominations, such as the EUR&#160;20 and EUR&#160;50 notes, would be at greater risk.
I am pleased to see that Mr&#160;Díaz de Mera&#160;García&#160;Consuegra is in favour of the idea of careful monitoring also in countries where the euro has not yet been introduced.
The risk of counterfeits is, more often than not, greater in these countries, as the populations have not had the same level of preparation as in the Eurozone countries.
It is harder for people in these countries to tell the difference between real and fake notes and, in many cases, people are often less suspicious too.
The fight against the counterfeiting of euro coins in the European Union has been relatively successful.
The cooperation between the European Central Bank, Europol and OLAF has also been relatively efficient.
In my previous occupations I have had occasion to deal with the issue.
The main problem is always the streets and dark bars where the counterfeit notes are put into circulation.
One specific question was about Turkey and Montenegro.
The core principle – which I fully agree with – is, rather, a principle of assimilation where the objective is to ensure that those effects are equivalent to those of a previous national conviction.
In line with that principle, the proposal is not limited to the trial stage but covers the various stages of criminal proceedings where national law can attach effects to a previous conviction.
The Commission fully supports this report and looks forward to cooperating closely with the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the proposal for taking into account previous convictions in the European Union is part of the institutional regulations being promoted by the Commission within the framework of the implementation of the conclusions of the European Council in Tampere and I should like at this point to praise vice-president Commissioner Frattini on the efforts he is making to implement these conclusions of the European Council in Tampere.
The institution whereby account is taken of previous convictions needs to be introduced in order to combat crime more effectively, especially as the existing relevant European conventions of 1959 and 1970 have proven to be ineffective.
The proposal as formulated is confined to the regulation of issues of substantive law.
The regulation of procedural issues has been left within the framework of the other proposal which is pending in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and is being processed by our honourable friend and rapporteur Díaz de Mera.
With the proposal to be put to the vote, administrative convictions are excluded from the definition of a conviction, because in most Member States they are not recorded in the register of convictions and because there is no uniform definition as to what constitutes an administrative conviction.
The assimilation of the importance and gravity of a conviction handed down by a court in another Member State with a conviction handed down in the Member State in which the new criminal proceedings are taking place is being promoted.
The proposal is free of the confusion and uncertainty which would exist if the provisions of the original proposal for the selective taking into account of previous convictions and offences had been adopted, but retains the obligation of the Member State not to take account of convictions handed down in another Member State where the principle of non bis in idem, limitation or amnesty are infringed.
We are of the opinion that, as the proposal to be put to the vote has been formulated, it adequately serves both the principle of mutual recognition of court judgments and the policy of gradual assimilation of the law.
It should be emphasised once again that the present measure, like other similar measures, is based on the principles of mutual recognition and confidence.
Finally, I welcome the statement the other day by the Finnish Presidency about intensifying the drafting of legislation and the monitoring of the application of decisions relating to criminal matters.
Let us hope that this statement will be put into practice. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, over the last seven years we have witnessed the development of tools, such as the European arrest warrant or the transfer of prisoners, which are designed to strengthen mutual confidence between the national judicial authorities and the development of a policy leading to the convergence of criminal law.
Now we are approving the Commission decision to establish a new system, on the basis of which the Member States will be able to take account, in criminal proceedings, of previous convictions against the same person handed down in another Member State of the European Union.
I should like to add something else to the other arguments about the need for the measure expounded by Mr&#160;Demetriou: that this is absolutely logical, because previous convictions shape the personality of the offender and play a role in assessing the punishment.
To close, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, who succeeded, with his amendments, in reconciling the views of the Council and the Commission, which differed considerably on certain basic points.
Finally, I hope that the statement by the Finnish Presidency will not remain a statement, but will start to be put into practice.
We need to take faster steps to unify criminal law. &#160;&#160; Mr President, while taking into account the current diversity of national judicial systems, it is highly desirable to promote mutual recognition of judgments between the European Union Member States.
That being so, it is of the utmost importance to lay down an appropriate legal basis, so that a conviction handed down in one Member State can be taken into account in new criminal proceedings against the same person concerning different facts in other Member States.
The object of the mutual recognition principle is to confer the same validity and the same effect on convictions handed down in other Member States as on previous national convictions.
Furthermore, the effects of previous convictions will still be governed by national laws in each Member State.
A principle of assimilation of judgments given in other Member States to national convictions should be established, still leaving it to national legislation to draw the appropriate conclusions from the principle.
Moreover, in the case of criminal proceedings in the Member State, a firm conviction related to acts not punishable in that Member State must not be taken into account. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in this report we see another example of the so-called beneficial crisis which gives the European Union the opportunity to press forward with yet more political integration.
The real problem lies with Britain’s open border policy and the right of EU citizens to unhindered entry to the UK, as well as the Government’s complete abdication of any control over who can and cannot come in from anywhere in the world.
But the telling part of this report is the reference to the Tampere European Council which intends to force a European system of justice on the UK and the comment that ‘there is a long way to go until justice is procedurally, evidentially and substantially administered in a more or less similar way in all the Member States’.
The UK Independence Party’s response to this report is ‘thanks, but no thanks’. &#160;&#160; – (PL) Mr President, the framework decision that we are debating is particularly important as regards the assimilation and harmonisation of legislation.
I agree with the rapporteur that the best place for the provisions contained in Article&#160;6 is in the proposal concerning the Council framework decision on the exchange between the Member States of information pertaining to the criminal register and its contents. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as in the case of many EU harmonising proposals there is a certain simplistic and plausible appeal to mutual recognition of criminal convictions throughout the Community.
The savage experience of British citizens abroad confirms my view that we have much to lose from criminal justice integration.
In the protection of my constituents, my watchword is ‘British standards for British citizens’. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I have been grateful for the support and ideas of the Committee on Regional Development and Parliament during this period on what is perhaps the most important and innovative part of the new cohesion policy for 2007-2013.
Through the guidelines we are seeking to ensure that Community priorities are more fully integrated into national and regional development programmes supported by the Union.
The guidelines seek to provide a clear and consistent approach in support of growth and jobs under the renewed Lisbon Strategy.
For example, they draw attention to the importance of partnership (recital 16), to the contribution of infrastructure to convergence (recital 11), to equality of opportunity and the fight against discrimination (recital 15), to the importance of development that is sustainable in environmental terms (recital 14), to territorial cohesion and to the urban dimension (recital 12).
It is worth noting that in adopting these recitals the Council and the Member States are in effect writing a memo to themselves on how the next programmes should be run.
We have also developed the text on the three initiatives – Jasper, Jeremy and Jessica – which you have supported strongly.
This should, among other things, make a contribution to developing the use of public/private partnerships in our programmes, which is one of the recommendations of your report on the guidelines.
I do not need to summarise once again the content of the document, but perhaps it would be worthwhile to remind ourselves of the vision of the new cohesion policy, which the strategic guidelines can help us to achieve.
This vision is centred around economic development, which is increasingly being driven by local and regional resources, be it innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, local human skills or academic institutions.
This vision is about developing our unique system of multilevel governance by taking policy closer to the local and regional levels, closer to the people and closer to the place where growth and jobs are created.
I know that some of you expressed a wish to have more debate on strategic guidelines, so I am looking forward to hearing your views. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with today’s debate and tomorrow’s vote, Parliament is laying the keystone of two-and-a-half years’ work on preparing the legislative package on cohesion policy for the years 2007–2013.
This is a cohesion policy that is to function with 25 – or 27 – Member States for the first time, the new Member States all being beneficiaries of the Cohesion Fund and set to draw great benefit from the future cohesion and structural policies.
We should like tomorrow’s vote to clear the way for the conclusion, submission and approval by the Commission of the operational programmes in the regions, so as to ensure an early start to the projects in the less-favoured regions of the EU next year.
Looking back, I should like to express my most sincere thanks for the cooperation I have received on the report on the strategic guidelines.
The visits I was able to make to Lisbon, Madrid, Bratislava, Prague, Stockholm and Helsinki as rapporteur contributed considerably to the quality of the report that was subsequently adopted jointly in committee and plenary.
I am delighted that the additional priorities Parliament wanted to introduce for the guidelines have indeed been largely reflected in the document on which the Council decided in August.
Probably the most important point is the clear statement that we want the EU to develop in a sustainable way, that we have more in view than short-term economic objectives, but instead are striving for sustainable improvements, including in living and working conditions, particularly in the less-favoured and underdeveloped regions of the EU.
The final document now present spells out once more that disabled and elderly people and those with a migrant background have exactly the same access to funding as everyone else.
We have attached importance to emphasising that the EU is striving to create not just any jobs, but better-quality, sustainable jobs.
This is closely linked to an improvement in training and in the opportunities for setting up research organisations, and also to the opportunity of bringing the results produced by these research organisations to small and medium-sized enterprises more quickly and to a greater extent.
For this reason, we must concentrate resources on this field, not only on job creation, but also, for example, on the development of transport infrastructure or the improvement of the environmental situation in towns and cities.
We have emphasised one point in particular, and that is the territorial cooperation that is more important than ever in an enlarged EU to enable us to learn from one another and develop projects together.
Last week, a working-group visit to Hungary gave me the first opportunity to see for myself the kind of strategically intelligent visions and ideas that are being generated in the new Member States, too.
Perhaps some of the regions that have been receiving EU cohesion funding for years could take a leaf out of the new Member States’ book.
For this we need to promote territorial cooperation further, however.
A further point – about which I shall speak particularly in my role as coordinator of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament – concerns the promotion of equal opportunities in the EU, particularly for women and young people.
On the whole, we, Parliament, can count the negotiation results as a great success, not only for Parliament, but also for the public.
Parliament has attached great importance to enhancing cooperation with the social partners and civil society, and this has made its way into the guidelines, in the report finally adopted by the Council, but unfortunately only in significantly watered-down form.
This will relate to the cooperation, and we shall also examine very carefully whether earmarking was really a good idea on the part of the Council, or whether it only serves to increase bureaucracy for those involved.
If this is the case, we shall certainly press for its abolition, as Parliament has a responsibility and duty towards the public, a duty it intends to fulfil. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs&#160;Krehl not only for her report but also for the hard work she has put into drawing up the European Parliament’s position.
The European Parliament, through the work of its Committee on Regional Development, has tried to define its expectations during the course of the legislative process and today we can say that nearly all of these expectations have been taken into account.
It is true that there is a discrepancy between the strategic guidelines as they are presented today and the previously published list detailing Lisbon Strategy spending, which was later included as an annex to the regulation.
It could be said that, for the Member States, the strategic guidelines form an internally coherent basis for planning the implementation of cohesion policy.
One essential success factor for the programmes as far as we are concerned is the extent to which all the interested agencies – at regional and local level – will be included in their planning and implementation, especially the social partners and the local authorities.
Achieving the objective of economic and social cohesion during the new programming period does indeed constitute a difficult challenge, at a time when inequalities in enlarged Europe are increasing and funds for applying cohesion policy are restricted.
The strategic guidelines are an important means in the direction of more efficient and targeted distribution of funds.
At the same time, they strengthen the strategic content of the cohesion policy and create the framework for synergy between it and the Lisbon Strategy.
In the new programming period and in light of the interim review, the cohesion policy will be called upon to prove – if I may say so – its raison d'être and the need for it to continue.
All of the foregoing, together with other quality factors introduced by Parliament in either the regulations or the guidelines, will be what helps to achieve its objectives.
The Member States and the regions must take them into account when preparing their national strategic reference frameworks and operational programmes.
Firstly, it takes account not only of the majority of the requests from our group, but also, I believe, of the requests from the majority of us.
I should like to make four comments.
Firstly, I should like to point out to you – as my fellow Members have already done on several occasions – that, in Article&#160;1 of the text that was adopted on 18&#160;August by the Council, the words ‘to act as an indicative framework for the Member States’ are written in black and white, Commissioner.
I am aware that, as things currently stand, it is considered bad form to want to impose on the 25 Heads of State or Government directives that come from the Commission or Parliament.
I should, however, like to stress that we would have liked to have found some slightly more binding elements in this text.
As some of my fellow Members, such as Mrs&#160;Krehl, have said, we will make sure, at mid-term, that we formulate the points of view that will be needed to change the wayward paths that may have been taken.
Second point: I must emphasise the motivation for these strategic guidelines.
The contacts that I currently have refer me to a Brussels ‘technostructure’ and to a Parliament that decides on strategic guidelines.
They forget that our commitment to solidarity, which is being expressed today in this cohesion policy, is designed to allow all the communities and each and every inhabitant of the disadvantaged regions to have access to the same benefits as people in the more well-off regions.
Finally, like our fellow Members from the intergroup, who have already highlighted this point, we welcome the fact that this text emphasises the importance of cities.
Having been in Germany myself a few days ago, I am in a position to say – and my German fellow Members will correct me if I am wrong – that 90% of the German population live in towns or cities with more than 2&#160;000 inhabitants.
In the text submitted to us, the importance of cities is emphasised.
Commissioner, in your communication on cohesion policy and the cities, you have reserved a special place for the integrated approach.
I should like to say, at this stage in the debate, that we must remain extremely vigilant and ensure, above all, that the implementation of the integrated approaches does not only affect the cities in the strictest sense of the word, but also the communities surrounding the cities.
I shall conclude by saying that the actors must also have good links with each other: actors at national, regional, local and other levels.
Just as an orchestra, with its violins and its pianos, needs a conductor in order to play well, we will ensure that there is a good conductor for all of these arrangements, one who is capable of making a success of this Cohesion Fund.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for coming so frequently to Parliament to discuss her proposals with us.
I would like in particular to thank Mrs Krehl for her work to bring some improvements to the Commission’s original proposal, particularly in regard to partnership, the role of cities and their hinterlands, civil society, access for the disabled and the environment.
Namely, that in the future ‘Peace Programme’ funding will be distributed in a way contrary to equality measures and equality provisions.
We have to remember our solidarity and allow other areas to do the same in the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Krehl on her work.
However, barely 28 months after the accession to the European Union of 10 new Member States, we can already see that even the poorest regions are developing at a significantly faster rate and now have relatively high growth rates.
Activities undertaken in the framework of efforts to foster solidarity between countries and nations within our Community will attain faster and greater success if there is a greater level of macroeconomic stability and essential structural changes are implemented in a more effective manner.
It is therefore vital to define the principles for cohesion for the entire European Union and correlate them with the strategic frames of reference created by individual countries.
Accordingly, we should welcome the fact that between 2007 and 2013, cohesion policy will aim to provide financial support for the least developed areas while also focusing on fostering economic growth and increasing employment.
I am pleased to see that the territorial dimension of cohesion policy has been emphasised, as it aims to create a balance between the development of urban and rural areas, as well as of regions with specific characteristics.
We should take a long-term view of our activities in Europe.
We need to encourage innovation in all possible fields, we need to base our economy on knowledge and education and we need to foster entrepreneurship, irrespective of the size of the companies in question.
However, we must remember that all our actions should treat people as individuals, as family members, as members of local and regional communities, as nationals of specific countries and as citizens of the whole Community.
This also applies to disabled people.
It is therefore very important to take account of the demographic dimension of cohesion policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, with the report by Mrs&#160;Krehl, whom I would like to congratulate on the work which she has done, we are finishing the legislation relating to the Structural Funds for the period from 2007 to 2013 and we are moving on to practice, in other words to the application of the legislation.
However, given the equilibriums which exist in this Union, of which our countries are Member States, this European Union of twenty-five states, I can say that it is the best possible legislation.
Consequently, we now have before us the challenge of seeing not only and merely how the 308&#160;billion cohesion budget will be taken up by the Member States and the regions, but also how they will make use of all this money.
Within this framework, the strategic guidelines which we are discussing today are important, because they refer precisely to the content of cohesion policy: where the money will be directed and which the priority sectors will be.
Of course, it is absolutely right for cohesion policy to be linked to the Lisbon Strategy and this is clearly expressed through the guidelines.
It would perhaps be better if the link had been clearer or more specific or if the Lisbon Strategy had been given a narrower definition, in order to cover certain truly leading sectors for the economy of the European Union.
Indeed, the regional policy reform took place not only in the difficult context of the expansion and the renewal of the financial perspective, but also in the context of the revival of the Lisbon Strategy, something that clearly reoriented the objectives.
I am worried, however, about the gaps, the shortcomings in relation to the rural environment, the funds for which are not very&#160;… &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Community's strategic guidelines lay down the principles and priorities of the cohesion policy and suggest measures to allow the European regions to make full use of the EUR&#160;308 billion appropriation allocated to national and regional aid programmes over the next seven years.
I should like to focus in particular on a factor that is decisive for the effectiveness of the cohesion policy: the quality of the partnership among all the local and regional actors involved in preparing and running the programmes.
Strategies drawn up at the closest possible level to the citizens really must form an integral part of the efforts to promote growth and employment.
The role of small and medium-sized enterprises, the need to fill local skills shortages, the importance of groupings and the need for local innovation centres are so significant that a bottom-up approach is crucial in most cases.
Involvement concerns not only the economic agenda, but also the more direct involvement of citizens through partnerships and the mechanisms of governance at various levels, in the context of which the cohesion policy is managed, in order to achieve the Union’s objectives of growth and employment.
Closer cooperation between the Commission and the Member States’ authorities is crucial for drawing up a cohesion strategy that addresses Community priorities in a national and regional context and also for it to have a useful effect on the ground through an operational programme.
I also want to congratulate Mrs&#160;Krehl, who, with her usual competence, very skilfully stimulated debate on such an important topic as the subject of this recommendation.
I am pleased to note, Commissioner, that the strategic guidelines give due credit to the hard work done by Parliament over the last two years.
To conclude, I hope, or rather expect, that my fellow Members will vote in favour of the legislative resolution and thus acknowledge all the hard work that has been poured into it. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I should like to start by expressing my appreciation and congratulations to Mrs&#160;Krehl for this, an important component of cohesion policy for the coming years.
The new strategic guidelines rightly focus more than before on growth and jobs, with the emphasis on knowledge and information society, entrepreneurship and employment.
In so doing, these guidelines must also take account of the promotion of investment in individual businesses by means of subsidies designed especially for SMEs.
Concern must still be expressed about the considerable administrative burden in the field of European structural policy, which, unfortunately, is not significantly reduced by the requirements set out in these guidelines.
I should also like to emphasise that we must not only make intelligent, efficient, targeted use of the scant resources at our disposal, but also attach great importance to private cofinancing at project level.
We must now do our utmost, as quickly as possible, to enable countries to submit their operational programmes soon, and particularly to afford them a smooth transition to the new aid period. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by echoing the expressions of gratitude for the work of Mrs&#160;Krehl, thanks to which we have been able to reach a common position within Parliament, which has undoubtedly considerably improved the content of these strategic objectives.
In short, the cohesion policy must be aimed at eliminating the specific difficulties faced by each of them, thereby guaranteeing equal opportunities.
Within the framework of the strategic guidelines, therefore, recommendations have been introduced which must be stressed: the creation of more and better jobs; innovation and the knowledge-based economy, which contribute to the elimination of the digital divide; environmental investments, which guarantee sustainability and the management of natural resources; transport infrastructures and accessibility, which allow equal opportunities to be offered to the people most in need of them, such as the elderly, the disabled and women.
Finally, we must point out that the principle of participation in the drawing up of European policy has been taken into account.
We will have thereby created the bases for mobilising the economic growth potential of all of the regions, with a cohesion policy that improves the geographical balance of economic development, increases the growth of the Union as a whole and ultimately lays the foundations for a stronger, more cohesive and more cooperative Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, we are hardly in any doubt as to the outcome of tomorrow’s vote on the strategic guidelines, which will probably gain the support of virtually all of our Assembly; I, like many others in this House, believe that the work of our rapporteur has got something to do with that.
It seems to me, at any rate, that the principle on which Parliament was not consulted – earmarking, which mainly concerns the old Member States – is one of the most technocratic and, in my modest opinion, undoubtedly one of the least intelligent ever thought up in Europe.
To do so, we shall have to wait for the Commission to examine the operational programmes submitted by the Member States, a process that will take months.
We know that you are paying attention, Commissioner, to these well-founded concerns.
Let us hope that you can convince your interlocutors and colleagues of this. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Community Strategic Guidelines for cohesion is one of the most important documents for planning structural fund spending in the Member States of the European Union.
These guidelines will direct future cohesion policy measures towards improving competitiveness so as to foster economic and employment growth.
In order to achieve this objective, the European Union must primarily focus on knowledge, innovation and investment in human capital, as well as on work aimed at eradicating disparities between levels of development in particular regions.
Making effective use of available funds is a key task and involves measures such as fostering public-private partnership programmes, especially at a local level.
It is also extremely important to pay particular attention to the urban dimension, as it is in towns and conglomerations that problems such as crime, social exclusion, pollution or heavy traffic generally make themselves felt.
This House should be satisfied with the current version of the strategic guidelines.
We can now only hope that the Member States will be able to effectively implement cohesion policy on the basis of these guidelines.
Finally, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Krehl, on a very thoroughly prepared document. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to sing the praises of Mr&#160;Krehl's report and the results that have now been incorporated in the directive, including those achieved in the past two and a half years by Mrs&#160;Hübner in the debate at European level.
The emphasis is shifting from less concrete and less asphalt to training our people in knowledge society.
Central will then be the role of Parliament in this new era, with an interim review in 2009-2010.
What we can then look forward to is agriculture being weighed up against cohesion policy and against Europe’s external role in the world.
It is because of that role that in the committee, I pledged my support to the amendment tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that looks to enhance Parliament’s role during reassessment.
I am also asking the Commissioner and the European Commission whether we will have sufficient information at our disposal in order to be able to hold a proper debate on the financial reprioritisation.
They are given the instruments and should respond accordingly.
It is true that the new synthesis for the new era and the new financial proportions will require a significantly reassessed policy, as well as a permanent role for the regions and the towns in the cohesion policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a decision on strategic guidelines on cohesion, to which we have been asked to give a favourable response, and which will serve as the basis for drawing up national strategic reference frameworks, strikes me as an excellent statement of intentions for the Council, for which we must thank Mrs&#160;Krehl.
The strategic guidelines make it clear that Europe needs to concentrate on meeting the Lisbon Strategy objectives, which are of course close to my heart, in terms of both fostering employment and growth, and encouraging innovation and a knowledge-based economy.
Full employment, a qualified workforce, lifelong training and increased productivity are essential prerequisites if economic, social and territorial cohesion in the EU is to be a success.
For this to happen, these factors must be embraced by all of us in a spirit of cooperation.
The European Parliament has acted with the greatest possible speed in preparing the Community’s strategic guidelines, and now it is up to the Member States to draw up the best, most credible and most feasible national development plans possible, and to submit these to the European Union.
I would like first to mention the part of the document which stresses the broad participation and involvement of the various civil and professional organisations, and urges giving equal say to all in the process of preparing Member States’ national development plans.
The perspective according to which health is considered an economic value and a motor of development represents a great advance in the document, which recommends the same approach in preparing national development plans.
The attention to improving the transparency and accountability of European Union support is a very important step forward, and thus strengthens trust among the Member States.
For my part, I can only thank and congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Krehl, and the shadow rapporteur, Mr&#160;Olbrycht, for their excellent work. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, reducing the disparities among regions, and particularly border regions, is an important challenge for the Community’s strategic guidelines.
With this in view, we should emphasise the actions that will have a long-term impact, such as those carried out not only within the transport and environment sectors, but also in connection with the Lisbon Strategy, regarding support for SMEs and the cross-border labour market.
It is regrettable, however, that, in this quest for balanced development, the border regions underpinning regional policy should sometimes be very different entities in terms of size and population and may have significant disparities linked to the statistical nomenclature.
That can in fact result in unequal amounts being allocated from the Structural Funds, and there is, then, a great risk that strengthening the competitiveness of these cross-border regions – one of the priorities of cooperation – might turn into a form of fierce competition among neighbouring regions.
It is therefore imperative that we create the ideal conditions for balanced cross-border economic and social development and pay special attention to programmes aimed at achieving this cross-border cooperation.
Finally, I should like to conclude by thanking Mrs&#160;Krehl for her report and, above all, for her boundless enthusiasm in championing a form of lasting cohesion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the strategic guidelines on cohesion and the three priority areas identified.
Like everybody else, I compliment the rapporteur, Mrs Krehl.
As an Irish Member of the European Parliament and coming from an economy that has been transformed in 15 years from the weakest in the EU to one of the strongest, I wish to acknowledge the huge role that the cohesion and structural funds have played in bringing about the economic miracle known as the ‘Celtic Tiger’.
The EUR 308&#160;billion for 2007-2013 will go largely to the new Member States.
Ireland’s entitlement is reduced from EUR 3.7 billion for 2000-2006 to EUR 901 million, which is a barometer of our economic success.
However, I should like to ask my colleagues in the new Member States not to give their national governments the power to decide at central government level how and where the money is to be spent.
Over the years, funds that flowed from the cohesion and structural funds and were intended for regions such as mine were channelled to Dublin, the east and the south of the country and co-financed national development plans.
Commissioner Hübner reiterated that this evening.
The report was a vital factor in the Council welcoming a number of Parliament's positions, on issues such as sustainable development, the urban dimension, equal opportunities and renewable energy sources.
It is regrettable that this tight schedule may adversely affect the implementation of the new cohesion policy as of January 2007.
It will not always be easy to work with these two different approaches in tandem, but a balance needs to be struck.
Accordingly, I have serious doubts about the idea of obliging the old Member States to set aside high percentages of the funds for meeting the Lisbon Strategy objectives, and, at the same time, to promote an effective cohesion policy, not least in the area of territorial cohesion.
I trust, therefore, that the national strategies to be submitted succeed in achieving the best possible balance between competitiveness and solidarity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, cohesion funding has been very important in underpinning the success of the 2004 enlargement and, like others, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her work in that area.
The economic progress seen over recent years in the EU-15 Member States that enjoyed cohesion funding represents something of a model for what we can do when EU resources are properly targeted and implemented.
When the ten new Member States joined in 2004, we welcomed their membership for various reasons, not least because those countries in central and eastern Europe had marked a major milestone in their remarkably short transition from the horrors they had experienced under communism to democracy.
While my constituents in Northern Ireland recognised that enlargement would bring with it a financial burden on the richer Member States, they were also keen to ensure that funding is allocated in ways that will bring sustainable improvement throughout the entire European Union.
We appreciate that the economic development of eastern Europe will in the longer term bring economic advantages for all of us.
As someone from Northern Ireland, I would just like to say that the people there were very envious of the cohesion funding received by the Republic of Ireland, because it certainly helped that country.
It is an awful pity that Parliament, the Commission and the Council did not listen to us in the past when we asked for cohesion funding for Northern Ireland. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Community’s strategic guidelines on cohesion are an extremely important document, which should contribute towards finalising national framework reference strategies regulating the draw-down of structural funds in the individual Member States.
Concerning the implications for the preparation of operational programmes and their necessary adoption by the Commission, we should be aware that the programming will now be delayed, thereby postponing the prospect of risk-free draw-downs of financial resources from the Structural Funds for individual Member States.
On the other hand, it must be said that these strategic principles take on board the great majority of our comments.
I am especially pleased that the crucial role of local authorities in particular, that is to say the towns and cities, has not been overlooked in the process of improving competitiveness across the Community as a whole.
European solidarity is referred to in the preamble of the Treaty on the European Union, which specifies that the Community will strengthen its economic and social cohesion with a view, above all, to reducing differences in the level of development between different regions.
I am thinking in particular of certain provisions that are now enshrined in the regulations and which cannot, by definition, be contradicted in the guidelines.
It is a recognition that the world has changed and that we need to redirect efforts towards new priorities in order to achieve sustainable cohesion.
At the same time, compared to the Commission’s initial proposal, the final list of earmark categories has been enlarged during the negotiations to include other expenditures, especially in the convergence regions, but not only those regions.
While it is the home strait, we should not underestimate the challenges that lie ahead in reaching the finishing line, but I can assure you that I will spare no efforts in persuading our partners in the Member States and regions to put in place ambitious and innovative programmes. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – First of all, I would like to thank all my colleagues, the colleagues at the Commission and the Council and of course Mrs&#160;Krehl for the effort they have made on behalf of improving the guidelines.
The essence and the real achievement of the agreement, from the perspective of the regions, micro-regions and cities of the new Member States, is that their situation has convincingly improved.
Sources can be used: – with greater certainty (counting with greater certainty on a 2007 start, and planning on full operation) – with greater ease (with much less individual effort and more favourable regulations) – in a customised fashion (new specific goals such as home renovations, mass transit, road building).
Areas of development are expanding, there is greater freedom of choice in their uses and value – this significantly increases our chances for dynamic growth and cohesion.
Out of 27 countries, mine ranks second highest in the amount of cohesion/convergence support per head, out of which development worth at least 8&#160;billion Ft can be realised.
It is now up to us&#160;… &#160;&#160; – Statistics show that between 1988 and 2001 the gap between the poorest regions and the EU average was narrowed by one-sixth, precisely because of the results achieved by the cohesion policy.
The year 2005 was a record year for the cohesion policy in terms of resources invested, with a total of EUR&#160;38.3&#160;billion committed to the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the pre-accession fund for candidate countries (ISPA).
The new strategic guidelines approved in this Chamber today focus more on growth, showing that in future the cohesion policy should place the emphasis on the knowledge and information society, entrepreneurship, the environment and employment, in order to promote the even more balanced and sustainable development of the Community. &#160;&#160; – I am grateful to the European Commission for having significantly enhanced the inclusion of the territorial dimension of cohesion policy in the latest version of its strategic guidelines.
I endorse the Commission’s desire to seek mechanisms for executing cohesion policy that will help guarantee that all regions are treated fairly on the basis of their individual capacities in relation to factors of competitiveness.
For the next generation of programmes, territorial cohesion must be promoted in such a way as to allow Europe as a whole to contribute to the measures in favour of growth and employment, thanks in particular to high-quality partnerships gathering together actors at every level: national, regional, urban, rural and local.
The new legislative framework also makes provision for a special allocation to be granted to the outermost regions in order to take account of the high costs they incur as a result of being so remote.
I concur with the Commission’s objective, which consists in ensuring that this allocation will also help create sustainable growth and employment in the outermost regions. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Mrs&#160;Barsi-Pataky and Mr&#160;Rübig on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr&#160;Glante on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mrs&#160;Hall on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and Mr&#160;Pirilli on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, on taking stock of the Galileo programme (O-0094/2006 – B6-0430/2006). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr Vice-President, a year ago the European Parliament voted here in Strasbourg at first reading on the financing of the GALILEO programme, and on the whole it unanimously supported the programme.
Discussions regarding the realisation and operation of the project are under way, and Parliament takes note of the Commission’s communication to the effect that the first result of these talks will be the so-called ‘head of terms’ regarding its financing, which is to come before us before the end of this year.
The programme is considerably delayed.
Furthermore, it is our experience that this is a new and difficult task, as regards financing, risks and operations, for the European space industry selected to carry it out.
We agree that the European GALILEO programme has entered the global sphere and has offered its services worldwide.
If, however, cooperation with third countries is also to figure in the overall institutional transformation of the Supervisory Authority, then the European Parliament wishes first to give its opinion on this matter.
We, the various political groups in the European Parliament, consider that what the GALILEO programme now needs is what is known as ‘good governance’.
Indeed, the costs of Galileo have already exceeded the budget by over 40%.
Secondly, the delay undermines the potential for revenue.
I would remind you that the Galileo programme was designed in three stages.
This development phase runs from 2003 to 2009, and is currently being managed by the Galileo joint undertaking.
Finally, the operating phase will start in 2010.
That will be at the end of 2010, when the first Galileo satellites will start transmitting their signals.
The project now involves eight industrial players, 25 public players and three institutions.
In the long term, this multiple patronage will be Galileo's strength, but it is true that all of these players, all of these supporters of Galileo, will really need to adapt in order to make progress on the matter together.
We also needed to deal with the changes in safety and security requirements that necessitated a further delay for technical examination.
The contract regarding the completion of this phase was signed on 19&#160;January 2006, and the work is currently progressing satisfactorily.
The technical feasibility of the project has been proven, and it is now a question of laying the foundations for a true public/private partnership for the next 20 years.
The concession contract must therefore be worded quite unambiguously, and I will of course inform Parliament of it, as the Commission has made a commitment to inform you of the content of the concession contract before it is signed by the Supervisory Authority.
The distribution of financial contributions between the Member States and the industrial players is largely dependent on the risk assessment, but this assessment itself requires the best possible understanding of Galileo's possible applications.
That is why, by the end of November, I will publish a communication in the form of a Green Paper on these applications.
I am quite sure that we are still underestimating the potential of Galileo, and I would urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to make efforts yourselves to encourage all our European industries to contribute to this discovery of the possible applications of Galileo.
As you will be aware, the international agreements regarding the Galileo programme are negotiated on the basis of Article&#160;300 of the Treaty.
The procedure laid down in that article must always include consultation of Parliament before such agreements are concluded, and I will see to it personally that this takes place.
It is quite certain that cooperation with third countries regarding Galileo represents an opportunity, but this opportunity must be managed, and the Commission will send another communication to Parliament and the Council this autumn, setting out the broad outline of this cooperation policy.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to gloss over the difficulties that go hand in hand with the implementation of a project as ambitious as this one, but at the same time I would draw your attention to the risks involved in giving the impression that this programme will in some way be subject to crucial delays that cast doubt on the viability of the project.
It is estimated that a future-oriented project such as this can yield 150&#160;000 extra jobs, and I know that industry cannot wait to take part in it.
Moreover, there are also regions in Europe – Bavaria and North Netherlands for example – that are prepared to invest money from the structural funds in developing this further.
I think that we are under-using the other instruments in this Parliament and in the European Union.
Time planning and compliance with the timetable laid down are crucial to the commercial viability and success of the programme.
A considerable delay is building up in relation to Galileo, in terms of the 2005 forecasts.
The tender procedure has been extended, and that is going to have serious repercussions for the programming of the project as a whole.
To that end, it is important that the supervisory authority, which you have mentioned, also send its reports to Parliament and that the expert appointed by Parliament has the status of observer in the authority’s activities.
As I have explained, we have issued a kind of appeal to all small and medium-sized enterprises and engineers able to develop innovations in this field.
The Green Paper will in fact aim to ask the right questions, which should enable us to reach a better understanding of all the possible applications.
That will finally allow us to found this concession contract on a reasonable financial basis.
There is no reason to think, at this stage, that we will find ourselves in a situation difficult enough to upset the balance of the project.
That being said, I have made a genuine commitment to keeping Parliament informed – Mrs&#160;Barsi-Pataky, as rapporteur, is well aware of this, and I should like to thank her once again.
I am absolutely committed to coming to Parliament whenever necessary to explain how things stand and how they are developing.
You suggested that Parliament should have observer status; we have already explained our position in this regard to the competent committees.
It would be difficult for Parliament to try to be an observer at the same time as performing all of its monitoring activities.
In any event, however, Mr&#160;President, I should like to reiterate this evening the commitment I have made: I will keep Parliament fully informed of everything that happens, both of the implementation of the concession contract and the public/private partnership and of how we are going to manage the contributions of third countries and their participation in Galileo. &#160;&#160; I am much obliged to Commission Vice-President&#160;Barrot.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday.
