Revision of the Broadcasting Communication - State aid for public broadcasting (debate) - The next item is the oral question to the Commission by Mr Visser, Mr Belet and Mrs Hieronymi, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on the revision of the broadcasting communication - State aid for public broadcasting - B6-0495/2008).
author. - (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, it is unfortunate that Mrs Kroes is prevented from being here this evening because of an accident.
Public broadcasters play a crucial role in the protection of cultural diversity, linguistic diversity and media pluralism.
Thirdly, the proposal fills me with worry because the public broadcasting systems are not organised in exactly the same way in every Member State.
The Director-General informed me that it is possible to delay the final communication until after 5 March, the day on which the Culture, Media and Sport Committee will be organising a second hearing on this subject.
Parliament's Committee on Culture and Education has scheduled a hearing for 5 March and, as has already been mentioned, the PPE-DE Group already held such a hearing on Thursday, last week, in the presence of the Director-General for Competition, Philip Lowe.
This concurs with our views; both public and private broadcasting are important.
The Commission increasingly receives complaints about borderline cases where a public media activity may have no clear value for citizens but where the market impact appears considerable.
Each Member State can decide when a new audiovisual service actually merits being tested.
It will help to maintain media pluralism in the new media environment by safeguarding fairness and certainty for both commercial media, including online newspapers and our excellent public media.
This market test that you propose is already being applied in Belgium, among other countries.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the revision of the basic guidelines on state aid for public broadcasting put forward by the French Presidency is an extremely topical debate both internally in numerous Member States and for the position of the mass media at European and international level.
The important role of broadcasters is mentioned in the UNESCO Convention, the Amsterdam Protocol and in the 2001 Commission communication.
Therefore, it is no longer appropriate to talk about public service broadcasting as if this debate were being held in the 1970s or 1980s.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Barroso Commission had announced the abolition of European over-regulation as one of its major political goals.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Madam President, for 80 years, public broadcasting has had the task of informing the public in the broadest possible sense.
Furthermore, it retains the main thrust of the 2001 communication, which recognised the essential role of public service broadcasting in guaranteeing quality of democracy and pluralism.
The consultation on the draft communication, which is now before us and has been presented by the Commission, can be commented on until 15 January, and it is important to give a clear signal again that this more horizontal general framework would be an important tool to place discussions like this discussion on public broadcasting in a broader context.
Here is a clear example - also in this case of broadcasting - that, if you do not have a broader clear framework which places more emphasis on and gives more dominance to the public interest aspects, it is always the market interest that will dominate in this type of discussion.
I should like to hear from the Commission whether this will be included in the adapted version of the communication and whether the responsibilities will be assigned appropriately, namely to the Member States, even though these will be accompanied by rules for services of general interest that should be drawn up in consultation with the European Parliament and the Council. (DE) Mr President, public broadcasting is more than an economic factor.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I thank you all for your very fruitful discussion, which I will certainly convey to my colleague Mrs Kroes.
The Commission also wants to guarantee a mixture of public and private.
The Amsterdam test allows Member States to provide funding for new media services by public broadcasters.
