To make things simpler, the same can be said of the Council’s second request for urgent procedure concerning support for the economic development of the Turkish Cypriot community, because in both cases the Council and the Commission have only just tabled significant new proposals.
The committee will deal with these matters this evening, but in both cases and on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I should like to recommend that at this stage the request for urgent procedure be rejected. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as you know this vote will decide on the request for two urgent procedures concerning macro-financial assistance, one to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and the other to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The two referrals are proposals for decisions aiming merely to extend the current expiration date of the financial packages, which are due to expire on 9 November 2004.
I would like to inform you, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, that it decided by a wide majority to accept the request for urgent procedure in both cases.
It also adopted the report on these two referrals through simplified procedures.
However, before proceeding to the vote, I would call on the Commission not to abuse the urgency procedure, but use it only as a last resort and to always inform Parliament as soon as possible through the appropriate channels.
In June, a consensus of the Heads of State or Government nominated me as President of the Commission.
Throughout this period I kept in constant contact with Parliament and I had the opportunity to meet all of the Members of the Council, except those Heads of Government of countries in which elections were held recently.
This Commission is a team with a number of positive features: it contains more women than in any previous Commission; it contains representatives of the main political streams in Europe, Christian democrats and people’s parties, socialists and social-democrats, liberals and democrats; it contains people with extensive political experience, at both European and national level.
This procedure, which has no parallel in the Member States, is an example of democracy in action at the heart of the European institutions.
Your hearings have revealed a broad consensus between Parliament and the future Commission.
In the vast majority of cases, Parliament's verdict has been positive.
In a few cases Parliament has identified weaknesses and asked for a response from me.
Today I wish to clarify my position on the most important points, without going into details of the undertakings I have already given, and provide you with the additional steps I am ready to take.
These guarantees are based on rules and procedures that are a matter of public record.
The Commission will always carry out its responsibilities in the area of competition impartially, independently, transparently and with assiduity and expertise.
He replied in writing, expressing his regret and reaffirming his commitment to the principle of non-discrimination.
I am sure that Mr&#160;Buttiglione will fully comply with the Treaty and the Charter and I can confirm that the rest of the Commissioners-designate share my view.
However, one good thing will have come out of this unfortunate incident: it has highlighted the importance we attach to decisive political action by the European Union in the fight against all forms of discrimination.
I have already told the Conference of Presidents – and I confirm this today to you – that I intend to create a group of Commissioners responsible for fundamental rights, anti-discrimination and equal opportunities.
It will ensure that the action by the Commission in promoting fundamental rights and fighting against all forms of discrimination is cohesive.
I will await Parliament's contribution before presenting a legislative proposal on this matter.
I also intend to initiate work with a view to a framework directive on the basis of Article 13 of the European Community Treaty, which will replace the directives adopted in 2000 and extend them to all forms of discrimination.
With this initiative, I am simply confirming even more clearly what has, from the very beginning, been one of the features of this Commission: that its very composition, with eight women in the college, affirms its determination to combat discrimination.
All these initiatives, and others that might be considered by the group of Commissioners or suggested by you, will be prepared under my authority.
Let me make it very clear that I will personally assume full control of our action in the fight against discrimination and the promotion of fundamental rights.
All the information I have, after careful consideration and extensive consultation, makes me think that changing the portfolios at this stage of the procedure would cause more political and interinstitutional problems than it would solve.
We should bear in mind that this process involves not only the President-designate and Parliament but also the Council, as a third and very relevant partner.
I am convinced that we can do our job in the service of Europe and its citizens, under the political monitoring of this Parliament.
Fundamental institutional changes await us in the years to come, when the Constitution enters into force – as the Commission hopes it will – after it has been ratified by all of the Member States.
This Constitution will significantly enhance both the democracy and the effectiveness of the European Union.
The future Commission, however, is more than ready to work with the Council and with Parliament to set up a common communication strategy.
The Russian Federation’s ratification of the Kyoto Protocol is a tangible success of the multilateral strategy for the environment, which bodes well for the future.
We must also bear in mind that, in some of our countries, we are still a long way from a genuinely fair level of social protection.
Competitiveness, cohesion and solidarity must progress in tandem.
It is clear that cohesion policy and actions aimed at creating a more competitive and more dynamic European economy are intrinsically linked and complement one another.
The new Member States in particular expect us all to make an effort in terms of cohesion and solidarity.
Solidarity – between generations, between members and groups of our societies, between Member States and regions – is not an abstract value.
It is a wise choice, which fosters social cohesion and which requires both political commitment and the appropriate financial resources.
In this area, cooperation with third countries is crucial.
The Commission will cooperate more extensively with third countries in order to help them deal with migratory flows.
Partnership with third countries is only possible if based on a joint undertaking and in compliance with international law.
Let me be clear on this point: the future Commission will work with the United Nations High Commission for Refugees to build international cooperation in this field.
It will urge those third countries that are our partners to sign up to and comply with the 1951 Geneva Convention relating to the Status of Refugees.
The EU must play its full role on the international stage.
It has important responsibilities and must be a strong and credible partner.
The election of a new US President, at the same time as the new Commission takes up its duties, gives us the opportunity to restore the transatlantic axis, regardless of the election result.
I firmly believe that the United States is ready to contribute towards setting up a more balanced relationship with Europe.
I believe that our continent stands a much greater chance of lasting peace with an enhanced stability policy in Eastern Europe, the Balkans and the Mediterranean countries.
Ladies and gentlemen, next January, I shall appear before you in this House to present the EU’s strategic priorities.
In July I told you of my wish to establish positive cooperation between Parliament and the Commission.
I strongly believe that the Commission’s strength and credibility lie in Parliament’s support and in active cooperation between our two institutions.
I have studied carefully Mr Borrell’s proposals on relations between our two institutions.
Let me say straight away that I am in favour of transparency and cooperation between our two institutions.
I hope that, as soon as the new Commission takes up its duties, negotiations will get underway between our two institutions aimed at introducing the necessary changes to the framework agreement.
Europe needs fruitful cooperation between Parliament and the Commission, the two institutions that are always at the forefront of the European project.
Ladies and gentlemen, an event of historic importance is almost upon us – the Constitutional Treaty is set to be signed in a few days, on 29&#160;October.
This is not a simple matter of revising the existing Treaties; it is the culmination of a long process involving Parliament, the Member States, the Commission, the national parliaments and civil society, aimed at making the EU more democratic, more transparent and more efficient.
You are aware, as I am, of populist threats coming from people who wish to weaken Europe and who always seek to call into question the credibility of our institutions.
This is a momentous time for our countries and for the EU.
Let us devote our energies to promoting growth, jobs, harmonisation and the Lisbon strategy, to strengthening a dynamic knowledge-based economy and to promoting greater cohesion in our enlarged Europe.
I appeal particularly to your European commitment to express your confidence in this college.
We can build a stronger Europe on the foundations of this relationship of mutual respect and confidence. &#160;&#160; The representatives of the political groups and the other scheduled speakers are now going to speak.
It is regrettable that the groups could not agree on a joint motion, but ours will be the yardstick for monitoring the Commission.
We expect the new Commission to agree its political and strategic programme in close cooperation with Parliament and we expect the Commission to be in regular attendance in Parliament and its committees, not only today – and it is impressive that they are all here – but also throughout the five years of its term of office.
The strength of our European cultural identity lies in the fact that we accept cultural difference and tolerate it.
We want people from different cultural backgrounds, with a range of different religious beliefs or non-religious beliefs and convictions.
Everyone here should be aware that if this college does not win the vote of confidence tomorrow it will not mean that one, two, three or four Members will be replaced: no, the status of every member of the team that is here today will then be open to question.
And please bear in mind that if we were to get a result tomorrow – I do not think that we will, but if we did – that suggested to the European Union that we do not accept our cultural pluralism, it would make it even more difficult to have the constitution adopted in the 25 countries of the European Union.
Let me be quite frank, ladies and gentlemen, and say that I find it very moving to see public figures from 25 European countries sitting in front of us now.
When I was elected to the European Parliament in 1979, I could only dream that one day we might have Members of the Commission from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Malta and Cyprus.
It is our responsibility tomorrow to express our confidence in this Commission so as to secure Europe’s future. &#160;&#160; .
The Council of the European Union feels that Queen Beatrix is representation enough today.
The European Parliament does not form opposing majorities.
The European Parliament is – you are right there, Mr&#160;Poettering – heterogeneous.
Even within our groups – as you of course know from bitter experience – there are very heterogeneous currents of opinion, and anyone who wants to win a large majority in this House has to show consideration for these different currents and try, as far as possible, to accommodate them all.
I have to say that I found nothing in your speech this morning to increase my confidence.
My group does indeed hope that John Kerry will be elected President.
One final comment: a democratic vote is a normal democratic act.
We have, on the whole, offered our support for the other members of your Commission.
We are asking that the other branches of our European government recognise what our Treaties recognise and what the European Constitution recognises: that power in Europe rests in some measure with this Chamber and its elected Members.
It has been said often in the last week that it will be Liberals and Democrats who decide the fate of this Commission.
The silence you hear is the sound of Europe's governments leaving you and your new Commission swinging in the wind.
The Council prefers this Parliament to be weak.
My Group wants this Parliament to be strong, because we cannot conceive of a strong European Union without it.
And we want your Commission to be strong because the European Union needs an independent executive of the highest calibre.
This House faces a heavy choice.
But we cannot, and we will not, diminish the status of this House, the standing of the Civil Liberties Committee or the stature of the post of the European Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs in the interest of an easy life.
You might say – if I can use Mr Buttiglione's own words – that we will not change our principles against our conscience for political convenience. &#160;&#160; In view of the repeated references to the Council, I must inform Parliament that the Presidency has sent a letter to the President-in-Office of the Council inviting him and the other members to attend this sitting. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Barroso, I shall speak in French so that there is no translator between us and that you understand completely what our group wishes to say to you.
Mr Barroso, you are a rather strange orchestra conductor.
After auditioning some of your musicians, we found a pianist on the oboe and violinists playing the drums and, following these auditions, we told you that the music did not sound right.
If a Commissioner is not very familiar with the agriculture dossiers, that is no problem, she will go on a course to catch up and she will take a written exam.
If a Commissioner for the environment is not too familiar with his dossiers, that is no problem, Mr Barroso is here.
The Council nominated you.
Yes, Mr Poettering, nobody here criticises anyone whatsoever for their religious beliefs, their philosophical beliefs or their ideological beliefs.
If a man campaigns against a woman’s right to have an abortion, he is perfectly entitled to be against abortion and to wage a political campaign.
We are perfectly entitled, however, to say that he is the least suitable person to defend the principle of non-discrimination in the European Union.
We are defending democracy and we have had enough of the authoritarianism of orchestra conductors. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, is it reasonable to bring down a Commission because two or three Commissioners are not entirely satisfactory?
The recent mounting criticism of the Barroso team is nothing short of a clap of thunder in a calm sky.
It cannot be a surprise to anyone that the college of Commissioners presented to us only serves to exacerbate all of these reservations.
By putting in the highly sensitive competition post an ardent devotee of market economics, as one analyst put it, an industrial lobbyist who represents and fosters dubious relations between public responsibilities and private interests, to the point of having been severely and unanimously reprimanded by his national parliament; by naming in the post of international trade a champion of free trade, who has no compunction about announcing that he puts his faith in competition to improve the performance of public services; by giving the internal market portfolio to a fundamentalist of liberalism, that of the environment to a conservative, for whom ecology appears to be the least of his concerns, and that of agriculture to a champion of the agricultural business, and so on and so forth, the President-designate has no doubt succeeded in convincing a number of doubters that he nurtured a particular idea of Europe that they certainly did not share.
One single Commissioner has brought fame to the whole of his Commission, albeit at a considerable price.
The image of his team, whatever may have been the quality of some of its members, is forever tarnished with unworthy and anachronistic words that were not punished as they should have been.
If a candidate country displayed such fundamentalist beliefs on the place of women in society, and such discriminatory beliefs on homosexuality, it would be rejected.
Let me add that other statements made by Mr&#160;Buttiglione are also worthy of our attention, even if, or rather, all the more so, because the Council and the Commission have among their ranks a number of sympathisers with these dangerous ideas.
Thank you for clearing that up.
Never, in the 25 years that I have seen colleges of Commissioners come and go, have I seen such an unloved Commission before it has even taken up its duties.
In fact, I firmly believe that, following the failure of the Santer Commission, then the stormy journey taken by the one that succeeded it, following the succession of increasingly bitter disputes between governments and the Commission, between governments themselves, between the Commission and Parliament, following numerous worrying signs of ‘eurofatigue’ among the general public – to use an expression often heard in the new Member States – not least after the elections, which were notable for a record low turnout, and given the fact that the draft Constitution might not be ratified in a few days’ time, I firmly believe that the Barroso syndrome, which will tomorrow lead to an historic defeat or to a Pyrrhic victory, constitutes a new and powerful indicator of the deep crisis of a Europe without vision and without a unifying plan.
The Commission is the government of the European Union and it has the sole right to initiate law – something which the constitutional treaty does nothing to amend.
And yet what Europe is trying to find at the moment – in order to ensure that the rich tapestry of today's re-united Europe is properly represented within all the institutions – is people who have opinions, people who have visions, people who can best represent the countries that nominate them.
That was not done in isolation: President Barroso already had confidence placed in him by the governments of the 25 Member States who put his name forward for that position.
Each of the national governments had nominated the people they considered to be the best for the position of Commissioner in the European Union.
To defend our Europe and our interests as Europeans, the Commission and its President should be adopting a very different stand.
You also managed, therefore, to take advantage of the political reality of the Commission to endeavour to answer at least some of the pertinent criticisms made in this House.
You have done everything to prevent such a crisis.
If you keep up this determination and continue to show respect for Parliament, you will continue to enjoy our support. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Mr&#160;President.
There are actually a whole series of Commissioners who have shown themselves to be very strong, including in the hearings, for example those sitting in your immediate vicinity today.
Even though many of them hold views on politics and social policy that are not akin to our own, we are convinced that they will make suitable Commissioners, and so we have approved them.
It is true, as has already been said many times, that Mr&#160;Buttiglione has every right to hold these views, which we do not share.
Mr&#160;Barroso, the problem is no longer just Mr&#160;Buttiglione.
You have not even made a serious attempt to convince us. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;Barroso, I voted for you in July because I believe that you have the potential to be a good President of the Commission.
These pledges will once again determine how we vote tomorrow.
Take the vote seriously; discharge Commissioners who do not have the confidence of Parliament!
After the hearings, I heard spokespeople for certain political groups express deep disappointment at the performance of certain individuals but go on to say that because he or she was a member of their political family, they would support them anyway.
Citizens' expectations and our sense of responsibility were referred to.
My sense of responsibility demands that I vote against the Commission tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since you first stood before this House, our reasons for voting against you have increased.
You cannot say that people are experiencing a crisis in democracy and set that kind of example.
Our vote against you and your Commission is therefore a vote in favour of peace, social Europe, democracy and also a new maturity for this Parliament of ours.
If you and your Commission are defeated, Parliament and democracy will be the winners, and the people will have more confidence in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this House has heard some home truths.
Commissioner-designate Buttiglione has reminded us all of the meaning of marriage and the family, and of the role these institutions play in society, a role sanctified by time and by the experience of generations.
We fully support everything Mr&#160;Buttiglione has said on these issues.
As a general rule, those nominated by governments as potential Commissioners have no chance of gaining support from voters in their own countries, and have met with public disapproval precisely as a result of their activities to date.
I am sure the same is true of the Commissioners-designate from the other post-Communist countries.
I apologise to Mr&#160;Buttiglione.
Our vote against this Commission is not directed at him personally. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate sparked off in this House by the extreme Left is a debate Europe could well do without.
What Europe and the Barroso Commission do need to do here and now is get down to work to solve the problems faced by millions of citizens of our continent in both the new and old Member States.
This is something we cannot agree to. &#160;&#160; Mr President, you deserve our support and you will have it. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, in July this House endorsed Mr&#160;Barroso’s candidature as President of the Commission.
Three months have passed since that time, and neither Mr&#160;Barroso nor this House have changed in any way.
Parliament is the only institution elected by universal suffrage by all the citizens, and the social environment our societies require demands that we start by creating a political environment which is based on the greatest possible degree of cohesion and unity.
I must tell them that they are wrong: it will be a success for those who do not believe in the European Union. &#160;&#160; Madam President, for the first time in the history of the European Union, the appointment of the new Commission has attracted a great deal of attention throughout the European media.
This is partly due to the very particular way in which Mr&#160;Buttiglione has commented on the interpretation of fundamental civil rights in Europe and the wounding remarks he has made about large groups of people.
As you stated this morning, a reshuffle is out of the question.
What threw into relief the problems surrounding Mr&#160;Buttiglione was the open and direct manner in which the European Parliament heard the new Commissioners.
Bearing in mind the urgent need for clarity, and without any preconceived ideas, the Members of this House have tested the new Commissioners on their vision of the future and the functioning of the European Union.
It is certainly true of my group that the work that has been carried out painstakingly over the past four weeks forms the basis for the ultimate judgment we will be passing about this Commission tomorrow.
At least equally important is the fact that, during the hearings, only a few of the future Commissioners appeared to have a clear vision of the role of the European Union.
As a result, they were hardly capable, if not incapable, of setting clear priorities for the Commission’s coming term of office, or of setting a good example for Europe’s global role.
The Social Democrats want the European Union to play a strong role in the world and apply effective multilateralism in order to reinforce peace and democracy.
The open and direct way in which the European Parliament has welcomed the future members of the Commission has given rise to great expectations.
Over the past four weeks, we have shown the European public that we want a new Commission with competent and honourable governors who also have clear ideas about Europe’s future course.
Madam President, you have chosen to disregard Parliament’s opinions and votes, in order, I believe, not to upset the Council.
For these reasons we shall be voting against your Commission. &#160;&#160; Madam President, both Dutch Members of the Independence and Democracy Group are very disgruntled about the fuss that has been created following statements by the candidate Commissioner Mr Buttiglione, and that is putting it mildly.
As Dutch Members of the Independence and Democracy Group, we see the present proposal for the composition of the new European Commission as a reason to vote in favour of it. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is incredible that this morning’s debate has not focused on the new Commission’s commitments and the current emergencies, which arouse such strong feelings among the citizens whom we represent.
We do not find all the players equally agreeable; we would have liked to see some more women and, above all, some more players with a jersey in our colour.
Some players have weaknesses, but all of them have enough experience on the field, have promised fair play and have accepted the authority of the coach and all of them realise that it will be an important match.
I believe that this team can take office.
I have confidence in them, and taking office is, of course, not the same as being given a blank cheque. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I should like to point out that in our Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs we attempted to evaluate Mr&#160;Buttiglione’s personal suitability for managing the portfolio of fundamental rights, of legal cooperation and of asylum and immigration.
During his hearing before the Civil Liberties Committee, Mr&#160;Buttiglione showed that he was completely out of step with what we are constructing in our committee.
The Civil Liberties Committee could scarcely decide in favour of awarding this portfolio to Mr&#160;Buttiglione.
Mr Barroso, as guardian of the Treaties you must defend Parliament’s rights.
We therefore call on you to take our opinions on board.
Parliament carries out its duties, all of its duties.
The subjective freedom of religion is something that we would always defend as a constitutional right, but Mr&#160;Buttiglione has cast himself in the role of , an in the new Commission.
As a Member of the Greens, and I do not want us to ignore what we have learned, 20 years since the first report of the Club of Rome and ten years, more than ten years, since the first conference on climate change in Rio, about the ecological ... &#160;&#160; Madam President, for me, there are two reasons for voting against this proposed Commission.
Mr&#160;Buttiglione has thus been attacked, as chance would have it, by the very politicians who in the last parliamentary term voted in a member of the Bilderberg Club as European Ombudsman and may be preparing to do so again.
In practice, however, the fact remains for us that this Commission seems to be entrenching the European superstate project, as sketched out by the new Constitution, which to us is unacceptable for the very same reasons that are put forward to support it: the rights to freedom and the rights of the regions, peoples and nations, which this project wants to overwhelm.
In the opinion of our group, those who have done particularly well were: Benita Ferrero-Waldner, Dalia Grybauskaite, Charlie McCreevy and those who gave a particularly weak performance were Ingrida Udre, László Kovács or Neelie Kroes.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will judge the work of the currently forming Commission according to what extent it will be able to create more unity, more cohesion and more competitiveness in the Union: to bring it closer to the citizens, to improve citizens’ standard of living and security, to help the joining up of the new Member States and to promote minority rights.
The stake is high and I hope that the European Parliament will not fail. &#160;&#160; In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we have heard four candidate Commissioners, two men and two women.
Although we have great respect for your attempt to get more women in the Commission, unfortunately, we do have some issues around the two ladies in this Commission and are still waiting for responses and reactions to those issues on a number of scores.
That question, too, is still on the table, and we would like to see it resolved. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first I would like to thank the Commissioners who willingly underwent the hearings process; it was a gruelling experience for all concerned.
There are serious political consequences, and we are now preparing to draw our conclusions.
If the first Barroso team is rejected, we look forward to seeing the second Barroso team as soon as is practicable. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I was worried and I remain worried.
You are responsible, however, for awarding portfolios to your Commissioners.
Some Commissioners-designate have scandalised Europe with their words.
Given that our European dream is in danger of turning into a liberal nightmare, that our actions today are a crucial influence on tomorrow and that the citizens of Europe are demanding a more ambitious Europe, my answer is no, I cannot place my confidence in this team. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ever larger groups of EU citizens view with disquiet the way in which the self-determination of the Member States is continually undermined.
For those of us who have been given democratic mandates in democratic elections to campaign against the centralisation and bureaucratisation of the European project and for those of us who have been given democratic mandates to reject the draft Constitution, this Commission is therefore unacceptable. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Barroso, on behalf of the New Italian Socialist Party, which I represent in this Chamber together with Mr De Michelis, I confirm that your Commission has our vote.
I freely admit that I have been shocked by the views expressed by some people in your team during the hearings, and I wonder about the ability of certain others to fulfil their portfolios.
Your proposal to create a fundamental rights agency surprises me a little and does not reassure me greatly.
The truth is that we create agencies when we do not exactly know how to address a problem.
I wish you good luck. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, your Commission is of a liberal persuasion, and I deplore that.
Your direct predecessor, Mr&#160;Romano&#160;Prodi, arrived terrorised by this Parliament and wanted to ignore it for more than a year, until the day when he found himself powerless in the face of the European Council and was obliged once again to rely on the true power of this European Parliament.
Today, you want to set up a special dialogue with the Council, but the Council is not there to support you at a time when you are involved in this difficult dialogue with our institution.
So you are saying to us: ‘it is too late to change Commissioners or remodel portfolios’.
Finally, you are making a fundamental mistake, because one of the essential powers of your Commission is the one it will exercise in the field of competition.
From this point of view, your candidate is weak and will weaken your Commission’s power as a whole.
I would therefore ask you to give me, before tomorrow lunchtime, arguments that will dispel my doubts. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the French Sovereignists will vote against the Barroso Commission and we have plenty of reasons for doing so.
Firstly, there is the fact that this Commission is an administrative college which has absolutely no need to be invested and which need answer to nobody other than the political body of the Council.
Furthermore, the composition of your Commission reflects a true deference to the United States, since the more countries have followed the United States, particularly in relation to the Iraq crisis, the better represented they are.
Finally, if there were to be one single reason, it would be this, the most simple reason: in our opinion, Europe would be much better if there were no Commission at all. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate at least shows that the European Parliament is becoming more political and has more political power than is apparent from the Treaties.
They are clearly prepared to trigger a full-blown European crisis, even though the Chairman of the Socialist Group has taken the precaution of explaining that it would not be a crisis but a normal parliamentary act.
The financing of her party is shrouded in mystery.
Mr Barroso, this Parliament and this parliamentary democracy are the essence of our European Union. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr President-designate, this debate is taking place on the eve of the signing of the first European Constitution, on the eve of a historic event for our Union of 500 million people.
Tomorrow’s Europe must take a leading role in international politics, in a fair, mutually supportive and balanced relationship with the United States, as you said yourself in your speech.
The Barroso Commission is perfectly capable of steering Europe towards these goals and of protecting the interests, rights and freedoms of the people.
I must remind this Chamber that the majority of the Members who listened to Mr Buttiglione in committee came out in favour of him as a candidate Commissioner – a Commissioner who must now and in the future be judged by what he does and not by his religious beliefs.
Mr President-designate, under my leadership the Italian delegation in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, places its trust in you and your Commission.
Good luck, Mr Barroso. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, this is the first time such a political crisis has come about following the hearing of the Commissioners, especially in the Commission as a whole.
This is an institutional confrontation between the three Community institutions, the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
The crisis in question, of course, was started by the Council itself but I think that you, Mr&#160;Barroso, with your stand today and with what has been promised, will perpetuate this crisis, without having understood that, if the Commission continues on this course, you will end up becoming a punch bag between the European Parliament and the Council.
I should also like to say that this crisis is not present only in Buttiglione's policies and communications; it is also present in the poor performance of numerous Commissioners, such as those in charge of competition, agriculture and taxation, who were unable to convince the members of their committees of their perspectives and political commitments. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the President-designate of the Commission called on Parliament to be responsible on this issue.
We are judging whether this Parliament has a decisive voice in Europe's political future, or whether we want it to be reduced to an advisory board within the Council.
It is time to show citizens our commitment to democracy and our commitment to them, and thereby to strengthen Europe.
Whatever happens, this will not be an institutional crisis; it will be a development of democracy. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President of the Commission, on behalf of the Polish delegation in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I should like to pay tribute to the way in which you are performing your duties.
The first challenge will be to involve the new Member States in all aspects of EU policy.
The second task is to close the economic gap and to ensure social and economic cohesion within the EU, in the name of the principle of solidarity.
We hope you will have confidence in us, and we intend to vote in favour of your Commission, including Mr&#160;Buttiglione.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President of the Commission, you said that the Commissioner-designate Mr&#160;Buttiglione had been successful in one hearing and had failed in another.
I should also like to say that I am still waiting for an apology for the attacks on the Commissioner-designate Mr&#160;Špidla. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr&#160;Barroso, you were appointed as Commission President after many meetings, negotiations and compromises behind the closed doors of the Council.
It is someone who would be in an extremely sensitive post, with responsibility for controversial issues concerned with discrimination, civil rights, refugees, police cooperation and the fight against terrorism.
We want constructive cooperation with the Commission, but we cannot support a Commission with Mr&#160;Buttiglione still in this post.
Mr&#160;Barroso will therefore have the support of the Czech delegation in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
I should further like to note that Mr Barroso spoke before this House as a guardian of the Treaties and as a guardian of the spirit of the European Treaties, and this is something which I welcome.
It would require only a single state not to ratify this Constitution for it to be nullified.
I hope that the Commission will support clearly the position set out in the existing Treaties, that it will state its opposition to flexible interpretations of the Treaties and to statements such as those mentioned above, that it will signal clearly its preparedness for an alternative scenario in which the European Constitution does not enter into force, and that it will be willing to help find a solution to such a future scenario, not that I would wish to anticipate it.
I therefore hope that the Commission will act as a catalyst for constructive debate on the European Constitution, and that it will play a positive role in this debate. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, investing means having confidence.
I cannot condone your presence in the Azores.
Secondly, the team: everything possible has been said about the team, or almost.
He would be better using taxpayers' money on his phone bill telling his mate, Mr Berlusconi, to switch his candidate. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, one of the basic conclusions which can be drawn from the recent hearings of the Commissioners-designate is that the role of our Parliament has been confirmed because, in previous similar proceedings, the Commissioners-designate were not subjected either to such substantial or to such extended and penetrating hearings.
However, what is of decisive importance is the Commission's clear and honest intention to cooperate with the European Parliament.
Of course, Mr Buttiglione used certain expressions which were unfortunate, but his letter of explanation and the President's personal guarantees have convinced me that Mr Buttiglione will not mix his religious or philosophical views with the exercise of policy.
Of course, our vote for the Commission will not give it ; on the contrary, we shall monitor their work closely, in order to safeguard a successful response to the challenges it has to face. &#160;&#160; Mr President of the Commission, in June we Spanish Socialists offered you an opportunity.
But there is another golden rule in the Constitution, and that is that Europe, Parliament and the Commission, operate in terms of the budget and codecision by absolute majority.
The problem is that, right now, we do not trust you after what happened in July.
With a view to the application of the Constitution and also for the sake of democracy, we are offering you the opportunity to take account of this Parliament’s constructive comments following a ‘no’ vote from this House. &#160;&#160; Madam President, we Swedish Moderates are adopting a position on the Commission as a whole.
We do not want to help bring about a situation in which voting in this House is on the basis of the private opinions or moral views of individual Commissioners.
It surprises me a little that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has not presented any criticism at all of the nominated Commissioner who has still been unwilling to repudiate the Prague invasion of 1968 and who knew nothing about his own political area.
We dislike some of the views expressed by individual Commissioners, but we assess the Commission as a whole, and largely in the light of the fact that we also think it only right that the individual countries should be able to nominate their Commissioners if European cooperation is to work.
Our task would be a hopeless one as far as European cooperation is concerned if religious views and private moral opinions were to be presented at European level for judgment in this Parliament.
Our task would also be a hopeless one if Parliament were to reject the candidates presented by the various countries’ governments.
We have to ensure the success of the enlargement that has now taken place and to negotiate successfully with new candidate countries, especially Turkey.
We give Mr&#160;Barroso our support. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Barroso, I am a journalist who has been prevented from continuing to do his job.
You could have avoided the situation but you did not, and so you end up by ripping up your promises of autonomy and independence from the national governments in this same Chamber where you made them, before this same Parliament that you had vowed to respect. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I will be supporting the new Commission tomorrow at the vote in the European Parliament, but my heart is heavy.
Generally, you have a very good line–up.
I would much rather be talking about problems of conflict of interest in relation to the Commissioner-designate for Competition, or ineptitude in relation to the Commissioner-designate for Energy. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I voted in favour of your appointment in July.
Please take such a rejection not as a personal defeat but as a clear mandate to obtain from the Council a Commission that is worthy of Parliament’s support.
The decision right now is yours, and yours only.
You must decide if you want Parliament’s support, or if you want to remain a hostage of national government proposals and, in particular, of those of the Berlusconi government.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, two things have become clear to me in this debate.
Secondly, in some cases we have got so carried away that we are no longer listening and are no longer capable of reading texts in full.
We must therefore recognise that Mr&#160;Buttiglione stated that he is in favour of non-discrimination and in favour of compliance with the Charter, and that he draws a distinction between a moral code and a legal code to which I believe we could all subscribe.
In any case this issue has been pushed right into the background in today’s debate.
This is, I believe, a statement that it is not proper for us, as a Parliament, to make.
It is our job to judge the knowledge that these people have of their subject and not their personal religious beliefs.
And in the light of the fact that the Barroso Commission is actually giving ground to Parliament and doing good work on foreign policy, the Constitution, enlargement – which needs revitalising – the rights of the European Parliament and the Lisbon Process, I would make this appeal to my fellow Members: do not bring it down because of a difference of opinion over someone’s values. &#160;&#160; Madam President, when we elected you in July as the Commission’s future president, we Socialists asked you some hard questions.
For you know exactly what needs to be said in this House and with imposing self-assurance you listed the encyclopaedia of European values and fundamental rights.
We prepared for the birth of the first Commission of the 25 like a celebration.
The responsibility is yours. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I have been in this Parliament for some time and the honourable Members who know me are perfectly aware that I am not in favour of a complacent and docile Parliament which bows down to the Commission and the Council, but rather a Parliament which fulfils its responsibilities, which invests the Commission, rather than attacking it, which controls it democratically, which rejects, debates, ratifies and rectifies.
The Barroso Commission must be judged exclusively on its capacities and its competence, not on the personal, ethical or moral convictions of its members, because if we had followed that criterion, Madam President, we probably would not have been able to vote in favour of the President of the European Parliament.
I would like to say to the few members of the Liberal Group who are still here that they taught us a lesson in sensitivity and responsibility in July when they voted in favour of the President of the Commission, despite having been left outside the pact which led to the election of a Socialist President for this House.
This is the best way to achieve the positive complicity which the President of the Commission has spoken about and which has led to the progress made by the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the vote for the European Commission is of particular institutional and political importance.
However, what was decisive in shaping our position was the hearing on the questions of security, justice and civil liberties.
You referred to the danger of institutional crisis.
You still have the opportunity, you have the jurisdiction to find an institutional and political solution to the situation which has arisen. &#160;&#160; Madam President, in common with you I have the honour and responsibility of taking part for the first time in the decision-making process regarding the European Commission of the enlarged European Union.
It is not our role to make judgements about the personal views of the candidates but to decide on the competence of the proposed Commission.
I am not happy about much of what I have read about the hearings, either on the left or on the right.
However, even if I did agree with the criticism, I cannot put the whole Commission at risk for the sake of one single majority vote in one of the committees for one of the candidates.
If we adopt the practice of making judgements according to some ideological yardstick fuelled by one or two sentences, or quotes taken entirely out of context, we will have difficulty finding a candidate who would survive, as everyone has, at some time in their life, said something that could easily be the subject of long political debates.
Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention for a moment before I give the floor to Mr&#160;Barroso.
In particular, in relation to the issue of independence in the competition portfolio, we will make public all the opinions of the legal services, which show that we can guarantee the independence of the Commissioner and the Commission on issues of competition.
I cannot accept a culture of intolerance, a culture of suspicion, simply because there are rumours or simply because there are attacks in our respective countries.
I am also a parliamentarian, I have a great respect for all genuinely democratic parliaments and a great respect for your Parliament.
As far as we are concerned, you have the right to represent all the peoples of Europe, I know this and I respect it.
The governments also have the right to represent the nation states and I myself, or the Commission once invested, must think of the general European interest.
I have not given way entirely to those who wanted a shake-up, it is true, but I have gone a long way towards dealing with your concerns and I have given significant guarantees with regard to the substance, fundamental rights, civil liberties and non-discrimination.
After all the consultations I have held, particularly with the leaders of the political groups represented here, I am convinced that any other approach could lead to a crisis.
That crisis could be resolved, I am sure: in a democracy, all crises can be resolved.
I have made a great effort to deal with your legitimate concerns, but I must tell you, quite responsibly, that European culture is also a culture of tolerance and compromise.
Some people were against the Commission from the outset and now they have found an opportunity to gain more support.
I do not believe we would be able to commit ourselves truly to what we need to do in terms of the harmonisation of the Lisbon strategy, the debate on the financial perspectives, the cohesion of our Union, making a great success of this enlargement, putting ourselves on an equal footing with the United States or holding a debate with Russia at the summit planned for November.
I have therefore fulfilled my responsibility and I believe that everybody should now fulfil theirs.
I can tell you in all honesty, however, that you can count on me to work with you, in a spirit of compromise.
I appeal to you to show the same spirit of compromise for the good of Europe. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, we will now suspend our debate for the formal sitting with the Queen of the Netherlands, after which the debate will resume with three further speakers. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, Your Majesty, it is a great honour for the European Parliament to welcome you to this sitting of our Parliament.
The skill of the Dutch Presidency has shown us that the size of a country bears no relation to the quantity or the quality of the work it can do.
Your Majesty, our institution is well aware of your personal work and your commitment to the least-favoured social classes.
At the same time, I am convinced that cooperation in Europe will increasingly demand that we make concessions in this area.
This idea appealed to the older generation, mainly, as a means of banishing war from our continent.
When I was 23, I was asked to deliver a speech on this very topic in front of an international group of young people who felt connected with this European ideal.
They subsequently urged me not to remain stuck in the rhetoric, but to encourage young people in other countries to think together about Europe’s future.
We, the young people in those days, were delighted to take part in this and thus help shape our own future.
After all, your countries traditionally belong to Europe.
Many have thrown off the yoke of years of oppression, which kept our continent divided in two camps.
The major contribution of the new Member States could well be that they introduce in the Union the same fervour which they demonstrated when they liberated themselves from Soviet rule and when they made the impressive efforts in preparation for membership.
The new members will need to make an effort to fit into what already exists in the Union, but the older members will equally need to show willingness to adapt.
The EU’s fundamental principle is that it is based on a Community of Law.
The constant confrontation with other cultures makes us more aware of both our own culture and our common heritage.
If responsibilities are clear and are placed and carried where they best serve the Community, the citizens will have a better grasp of, and more respect for, the common interest.
Our Union gains in strength if it opens itself up to countries that share our legal norms and commit to meeting the criteria.
If nations exert themselves to making the transition to the democratic form of government as effectively as possible, they deserve extra appreciation and support.
The preamble contains the solemn declaration that Europe wishes to continue to apply itself to establishing peace, justice and solidarity in the world.
We respect and support the United Nations as a global structure propagating those self-same principles.
The EU countries that have managed to keep the peace within their boundaries are now supporting peace operations in other parts of the world and are sending their troops to those regions for that purpose.
With the Constitutional Treaty, our countries are giving a clear signal that they are taking responsibility in respect of the rest of the world and will continue unabatedly in their efforts to fight poverty, inequality and injustice.
As you acquit yourselves of the challenging task to represent 450 million Europeans, I warmly wish you the inspiration that Europe requires of all of us today. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your words, Your Majesty. &#160;&#160; We now continue with the debate on the statement by Mr Barroso, President–elect of the Commission, presenting the College of Commissioners and their programme. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we all know that the Commission is made up of a President and 24 Commissioners, from different political backgrounds and with different personal beliefs, yet it has the legitimacy of having been proposed by democratically-elected governments.
At this time, what we must do is decide how Parliament will behave towards a Commission led by a strong President with a clear mission to ensure that the European project and the balance between the Member States will be safeguarded.
He has made commitments to this House, not least in the area of non-discrimination, and has received a letter from each of the Commissioners, and this makes him worthy of Parliament’s confidence.
It is not understandable to vote against a Commission of 25 people if one disagrees with the religious beliefs of one of its members; that is intolerant.
Consequently, to put a Commission in an untenable position before it has taken up its duties, due to the religious beliefs of one of its members, is tantamount to prejudice.
Lastly, Mr President of the Commission, I do not know how tomorrow’s vote will go, but, coming from Portugal, I can tell you that you can count on our vote, and I hope that the Commission is not rejected because of 12 votes from the Portuguese left of this House. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commission President&#160;Barroso, half of Europe’s citizens are women: women who have been told that, in marriage, they are to be provided for and subordinated and that single mothers are worse mothers.
The same values and rights also apply to the EU’s homosexuals.
In the same way, the Lisbon strategy affirms women’s right to employment and to equal wages for work of equal value.
These are facts and not just words, as you said in your introduction.
More is the pity, Mr&#160;Barroso. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Barroso has presented the Commission as a single whole, a collegiate body, which is quite right, and he ties his political approach to that.
Those who believe in a liberal, tolerant, even-handed, persuasive and institutional Europe, in which the relationship between Parliament and government is one of democratic control and not control by bureaucrats or the unions, will vote for Mr Barroso in order to strengthen the balance among the twenty-five countries.
We, who always refer to what Mr Delors says, can on this occasion play our parliamentary role correctly by approving both the Commission as a whole and the commitment that its President has made before this House today. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote on the approval of the Commission will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; Mr President, with your permission, I would like to raise a point of order.
In his opening statement in the debate earlier on, Martin Schulz, Chairman of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, was being very condescending towards Her Royal Highness, Queen .... &#160;&#160; – Mrs Kauppi, this is not a procedural matter. &#160;&#160; – We shall now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; It is clear that the amendments voted for or rejected have completely reversed the meaning of my report, since our Parliament believes it is not desirable for living beings to appear on the future notes of the European Union, that our difficulties are caused by excessively short working times in Europe and that, contrary to Article 2 of the Treaty, the Central Bank need not concern itself with sustainable growth.
The dispersed nature of Community provisions, and the fact that many of them have been repeatedly amended down the years, makes it extremely difficult to identify the rules in force, a task that requires considerable analysis and can virtually only be done by people with legal training.
Consequently, and in order to ensure clarity and transparency in Community legislation, I believe that it is essential that Community legislation be codified, as provided for by the Commission in 1987 and by the Edinburgh European Council of 1992.
The aim of the proposal before us is to codify Council Directive 95/70/EC of 22&#160;December 1995, establishing minimum Community measures for controlling diseases affecting bivalve molluscs.
The dispersed nature of Community provisions, and the fact that many of them have been repeatedly amended down the years, makes it extremely difficult to identify the rules in force, a task that requires considerable analysis, and can virtually only be done by people with legal training.
Consequently, and in order to ensure clarity and transparency in Community legislation, I believe that it is essential that Community legislation be codified, as provided for by the Commission in 1987 and by the Edinburgh European Council of 1992.
Accordingly, as I did with proposal for a Directive 76/464/EEC, I endorse the aim of the proposal before us, which is intended to set about codifying Council Directive 95/70/EC of 22&#160;December 1995, establishing minimum Community measures for controlling certain diseases affecting bivalve molluscs, replacing the currently isolated legislative acts incorporated therein. &#160;&#160; We are voting in favour of the cooperation agreements with Russia, Ukraine, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Armenia in accordance with this report.
These Partnership and Cooperation Agreements (PCAs) are ‘mixed’ agreements that entered in force before the last EU enlargement.
The aforementioned agreements therefore require the addition of a protocol enabling the accession of ten new Member States to them.
Although we voted in favour of the report, which aims to limit its implementation until the end of 2006, requiring a new global process and a Commission report on implementing the regulation, there are questions that must be brought to the fore: - the little importance the Council attaches to the issues of aid and cooperation; - the contradiction in the positions taken by the Commission, which, on the one hand, proposes to extend the Regulation indefinitely, yet, on the other hand, only provides funding for it until 2006; - the Council and the Commission’s contradictions as regards aid for cooperation and development, the funding for which is often reduced by being transferred to support for reconstructing countries ... &#160;&#160; We believe that the European Union’s policy in the area of development needs to be reviewed.
This inconvenience may be averted by reducing the period of validity to two years – 2005 and 2006.
This instrument, which falls within the EU’s broadest policy on development assistance and aid, is extremely important and is so often the only hope, and the last hope, for thousands of people in particularly precarious situations.
Experience has shown the significant help provided by this type of action in preventing conflict, in reconciling the parties to a conflict, or in helping uprooted people or demobilised former soldiers to recover their personal effects and their property rights, and often represents their last hope of a fresh start. &#160;&#160; – We in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have just voted in favour of the report as a whole.
We would like to stress, however, that we voted against publishing the outcome of individual votes in the ECB.
The June List believes, however, that we should not adopt positions on the more specific proposals affecting the work of the ECB or the way it is set up, and we therefore choose not to adopt positions on the amendments before us.
We cannot however support paragraph 14, according to which Parliament wants to see increased propaganda for the euro.
That is important in terms of the whole EU’s financial stability. &#160;&#160; I am voting against the report on the activities of the ECB.
The report endorses the ECB's monetary policy, despite the fact that it is partly responsible for the lack of growth in Europe and for a situation unfavourable to employment.
In fact, the ECB has rejected any strategy likely to favour a euro-dollar parity more favourable to exports and industry, in particular with a view to preventing too significant a fall in the dollar.
I regret that the draft Constitution does not in any way change the situation and allows complete independence to continue without balancing the objectives of price stability and employment.
In conclusion, nothing about the situation in the eurozone can justify this blank cheque for the ECB.
Inflation has picked up&#160;–&#160;and whatever some people may have said, the introduction of the euro has unfortunately led to a rise in prices -&#160;exchange rates remain high and growth is weak. &#160;&#160; I have just voted in favour of the report on the ECB, from which Mr&#160;Lipietz has removed his name.
There is sufficient transparency because the public and Parliament are informed directly of its decisions on monetary policy.
The EU is a long way from being a homogenous economic area, given that considerable discrepancies still exist between Member States as regards the level of economic and regional development, of inflation and unemployment.
I agree that the ECB has been a factor in institutional and economic stability and that it has met the majority of its objectives.
Lastly, I should like to highlight the fair criticism made by the rapporteur regarding the fact that many banks still charge a commission on transfers and exchanges of cheques between countries in the Eurozone.
It is not appropriate for him to attempt, for political reasons, to attack the Dutch ... &#160;&#160; – Mrs Kauppi, excuse me for interrupting you, but what you are saying is not procedural. &#160;&#160; &#160;We will now move on to the next item, which is a joint debate on two reports on behalf of the Committee on Budgets on the draft general budget for 2005.
On Thursday we will vote here in Parliament on a clearly political reading of the budget.
It is political in that it reflects the political priorities on the basis of which the parliamentary groups and Members stood for the European elections on 13 June.
The Commissioner for Budgets always has a very difficult role to play between Parliament and the Council – two budgetary authorities which have no choice but to reach agreement, although on occasions it seems that agreement is a very long way off.
The patience and negotiating skills of the outgoing Commissioner – and of the new one, let us hope – are going to be required for this first reading of the European Parliament, because it is very different from the first reading by the Council.
The reality is that the European Parliament is defending its priorities at a time when the budgetary situation is very difficult and very restrictive.
In general terms, we accept the Commission's preliminary draft budget as amended by the competent committees, the political groups and individual Members who have proposed amendments.
You are already aware that there has been a technical adjustment to the maximum limits of Headings 3, 4 and 5, which in themselves create an almost insoluble problem in terms of achieving the figures for the 2004 budget.
The Council has cut internal policies by EUR 55 million from the preliminary draft budget, creating an impossible margin of EUR 108 million.
The amendments which the honourable Members have presented to this draft budget, in this Heading 3 alone, represent more than EUR 350 million.
The Council has cut external policies by EUR 129&#160;million in comparison with the Commission’s preliminary draft budget, leaving a margin of 14 million, when the negative margin in committee was EUR 115&#160;million and that already seriously jeopardised Parliament’s traditional external priorities.
They are the following: Firstly, the Lisbon strategy and its job creation and growth policies, because they are included in practically all the political programmes on the basis of which the honourable Members stood for election.
At a time of difficult and weak economic growth in the European Union, it would be suicidal not to strengthen those policies which are aimed precisely at growth, development and job creation.
Secondly, communications strategy, in particular, because of the European elections and the low turnout at those elections, because of our enlargement and the need to explain the idea of the Union much better to the new citizens and because we are in the midst of a constitutional debate on the future of the European Union, this is another priority for Parliament and we have, therefore, presented an amendment to the tune of EUR 24 million.
I believe this is a priority for all of you and, unfortunately, there is no need to explain why it must be a priority for Parliament and the European Union in 2005.
They have all sacrificed other priorities and they have all had to offer their colleagues complicated explanations of the decisions taken.
And this is a message I would like to make very clear to the Commission and the Council: this first reading expresses a clear and unequivocal political compromise for the November negotiation.
Let us now move on to the reading by headings, remembering that the vote the European Parliament will take on Thursday will be on the budget as a whole and that, as such, when it comes to the negotiation, we will take it to the three-way dialogues and to conciliation.
Our reference has been the preliminary draft budget presented by the Commission, but we still have to provide the appropriations necessary to fulfil the Copenhagen criteria.
According to that, we raise the sum of EUR 57 million above the maximum limit of subheading 1b), the item which would go to the establishment and training of young farmers.
We have also increased appropriations on measures to eradicate animal diseases and food safety, because they are also Parliament’s priorities.
Payments are the essential in this category, the category in which the amendments we present on payments have the greatest impact.
In order to prevent and absorb the RALs, which now amount, ladies and gentlemen, to EUR 122&#160;000 million – which represent one budgetary year – we raise the draft preliminary budget in those lines in which the RALs double the annual commitments.
The budgetary increase for the Agencies has risen from EUR 96 to 281 million and for the next 2005 budget we expect an increase of 20%.
The number of staff posts for the Agencies has risen from 418 in 2000 to 2695.
All of this has meant a reduction in the maximum limit for the heading of around EUR 134 million in order to fund other priorities.
I cannot accept this situation and I intend to hold very serious negotiations with the Council.
For the purposes of the negotiation with this Parliament’s rapporteur for the Agencies – Mrs Haug – we have presented an amendment which affects all the Agencies and which represents a reduction of EUR 40&#160;million, leaving the budget for them at the level of the 2004 budget.
Our intention in this case is, firstly, to point out that the funding of any additional increase the Council intends for newly-established Agencies must be discussed with this Parliament, because with the financial straitjacket we are in, with the financial perspectives set from 2000 to 2006, this annual increase in the Agencies already has to be at the expense of Parliament’s priorities, and the Agencies are not Parliament’s only priority, although the Agencies do, of course, need to be funded and we are committed to that as well.
In a similar way, in terms of preparatory actions I would like to stress the parliamentary agreement on the voluntary return of immigrants, on aid in the fight against poverty-related diseases – for which we allocate EUR 10 million, which I believe constitutes significant financial support – and, furthermore, the new strategy we have employed of treating certain pilot projects as studies.
Finally, in Heading 4 we have voted for EUR 5&#160;119&#160;million – plus an amendment with asterisk.
What is basically happening in Heading 4 is that we are once again faced with having to fund Iraq.
This funding was not scheduled for 2005 and what is being proposed is that we fund it at the expense of Parliament’s traditional priorities, like the external policy voted for by Parliament this year, the previous year and in 2000.
Taking account, therefore, of the suggestions of the Committee on Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have requested that this heading be funded with the new resources provided for in the Interinstitutional Agreement in the additional sum of EUR 190 million.
At the same time we call in to question – or we place within the same package – the common foreign and security policy, which is very important to this Parliament, but its funding must be considered within the general framework of what needs to be funded in Heading 4.
I can remember, when you started a little over five years ago, how relations were between Parliament and the Commission in the area of the budget.
I think that, through your way of working, Mrs&#160;Schreyer, and through the way in which you have tackled things, you have made a very large contribution to rebuilding trust between Parliament and the Commission.
I must say something about the budgets for the other institutions.
If we look at the budgets for the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Ombudsman and the European Data Protection Supervisor, the budget that we are now presenting, and that was adopted in the Committee on Budgets, has increased by EUR&#160;10&#160;million in respect of the preliminary budget from the Council.
These are small new institutions which are in the process of development, and I feel that the solution we have found in the Committee on Budgets is a reasonable result for these two institutions.
When we reach the budget figures during second reading, the pressure on the administrative expenditure will therefore be less than we had at first believed, so we may perhaps, in spite of everything, find a margin.
Last but not least, the institutions should of course continually ensure that administration takes place as efficiently and inexpensively as possible so that financial surpluses are prevented through cooperation between the institutions.
Where Parliament’s budget is concerned, we have kept this down to 20% of administrative expenditure, that is to say 20% of the money under expenditure heading five.
That level seems quite reasonable in relation to needs.
These two new buildings will cost more than EUR&#160;300 million, and it must be assumed that the contractual negotiations are now at last progressing quickly enough for it to be possible, both this year and in 2005, to pay off a portion of this sum.
In the course of our negotiations, amendments were, however, tabled that, in actual fact, cut into the Council’s budget for administration of the common foreign and security policy and, at the same time, cut into Parliament’s budget, namely that for the buildings reserve.
The intention behind this proposal is, of course, to press the Council to bring about greater transparency in the administration of the common foreign and security policy.
It is, to a large extent, the growing expenditure in this field that has led to a rate of increase of almost 5% in the Council’s budget for 2005, while the budgets of the other institutions have increased by a little over 3%.
I very much agree that we should ensure transparency and also ensure that no items are entered in this part of the Council’s budget that should properly be part of the action expenditure.
I would therefore repeat my appeal to the Council to keep a tighter rein on the budget and to ensure greater transparency.
We therefore fully support the rapporteur's approach of obtaining EUR 190&#160;million in extra funding – and I would like to add that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has asked the Commission to present a report on the application of the democratic clause – and at the same time to intensify action in the field of cooperation with the United Nations.
I do not wish to recall the climate of the discussion we have held this morning in Parliament, but I would like to ask you to be very attentive, to take into consideration and not forget the decisions and priorities established by this Parliament as an arm of the Budgetary Authority. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I too wish to thank Mr&#160;Garriga Polledo for his extremely competent work on the budget in a difficult situation.
At present, only slightly more than 40% of the money ends up in those countries.
We have therefore proposed changes to the distribution and, of course, also additions to the Council’s proposals, both to strengthen efforts to combat HIV, malaria and TB, and specifically to allocate more aid to Asia, the region in which far and away the largest number of poor people live.
These proposals can only be put into practice if use can be made of the flexibility mechanism.
The budget should reflect political objectives and not the Commission’s organisational structure.
I am pleased to say that the Committee on Budgets agreed with us and through the global amendment has restored those cuts.
So the Committee on International Trade is very happy that the Committee on Budgets has approved, in their entirety, both the amendments we put forward.
I hope now that this House will back the Committee on Budgets and that the Council will accept the amendments made by Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, respecting Parliament’s desired political guidelines is an almost impossible task every year.
For 2005, it was completely impossible, as it has been in other years, because, despite the agreement on the financial perspectives in force, the Council’s priorities mean not providing the resources our ambitions require.
That has led the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to follow the strategy proposed by our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Garriga&#160;Polledo, whom I thank.
This strategy consists of prioritising the policies decided on by Parliament, while calling on the Council to fulfil its commitments in terms of the operation of the agencies, just as for Heading V and the Union’s external policies, where the aid promised for Iran can be funded without difficulty from the sums available from the flexibility instrument of more than EUR 450 million.
Only this strategy has allowed us to produce a budget which reflects the very reasonable orientations established by the Socialist Group for the European Union in 2005.
Nevertheless, by providing this draft budget with such reduced funding and distributing money in a random manner, the Council is expecting us to abandon what we hold most dear in terms of European integration: solidarity.
By that I mean solidarity between the peoples of Europe, but also solidarity between Europe and the rest of the world.
Similarly, we have reinforced the budgetary lines dedicated to the Lisbon strategy, for SMEs, employment and social dialogue.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, our last priority is inspired by European solidarity and consists of making the European Union’s information policy one of our fundamental policies.
In our societies faced with violence and the spectre of recession, and witnessing the war in Iraq and in the world, the Union must be seen as a model for economic growth based on solidarity.
Our budget, which we are presenting and on which we will vote on Thursday, must respect our priorities and be our main tool for implementing our political project.
Finally, I do not wish to end without thanking our Commissioner, Mrs&#160;Schreyer, most warmly for the all the work she has done over the last five years.
That means that in this vote takes as its starting point the obligations and payments for 2004.
That is not straightforward, because no consideration has been given to the fact that ten new Member States have joined and that for those ten new Member States new activities need to be developed.
For example, Bilbao has been given additional tasks relating to small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is not easy to keep these within the budget of 2004.
We are actually very thrifty.
We have to do a much better job of explaining Europe.
It is for that reason, too, that we are committed to the infopoints, to the campaign for Europe’s future, to the Carrefours, to Prince, to all these important things, in order to bring Europe closer to its citizens and to explain it.
Concrete initiatives to push forward the Lisbon agenda, including in this Budget procedure, are more important than a constant succession of statements, whether by the Heads of State and Government, or sometimes by us ourselves, that cost those who make them nothing.
We still regard the internal market as being at the heart of our competition strategy, and, seeing as there has been no change in the obstacles to it, we have proposed allocating funds to the holding of another forum on the internal market in order to discuss the various minor obstacles remaining in the internal market with those who are affected by them, thus enabling us to fashion forward-looking legislative instruments to deal with them.
When it comes to the border regions, though, they have become friends, as has the rapporteur on our Budget, Mr Garriga Polledo, and for that many thanks. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, we too in the Committee on Transport and Tourism would like to thank Commissioner Schreyer for the work she has done.
The same is true of us as of the other committees: sometimes our expectations are greater than the funds available to us, and that is why, rather than setting new priorities, we have tried at least to allocate the necessary funds to what has been agreed jointly by the Council, the Commission and Parliament, so that the public can have confidence that what you announce will then be done.
We do not take a sympathetic view, when, for example, the three partners come to a clear consensus on policies on railway safety, safety in the air and the combating of marine pollution, and then along comes the Council and reduces the funds for these to nothing.
When that happens, we are no longer talking in terms of technical decisions about finance, but about policy decisions on the Budget.
I think the indications from the Transport Committee have been very clear, namely that we have to make the funds available at least for our shared policy objectives, particularly when it is the environment and safety that are at stake.
The public expect more than just crisis management; they expect signs, and a sustainable policy in these fields.
Mobility and transport fall between the economy, safety and the environment and affect all the citizens who want to live together in Europe.
For that reason I would like to see good financial provision made for these well-known priorities. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, speaking on behalf of the Regional Policy Committee, I too would like to express my gratitude – both to the rapporteur and to the Commissioner – for the good cooperation over the past five years.
As far as Structural Funds and regional policy are concerned, there are three prominent aspects of the 2005 Budget procedure to be noted.
The first is that 2005 is the first complete financial year for the Europe of Twenty-Five.
The Council has made cuts in the preliminary draft Budget that we regard as unacceptable.
The amendments have moved in the general direction for the agricultural budget of re-establishing the draft preliminary budget presented by the Commission, because the Council had cut it in an arbitrary manner, using saving as their only criterion and without taking account of the different agricultural items.
I am pleased with the increase in aid to young European farmers and I would like to point out once again that the average age of a European farmer is over 50 and that henceforth this is the biggest problem facing European agriculture.
Firstly, to reincorporate the appropriations unjustifiably cut by the Council from the draft preliminary budget presented by the Commission in relation to two important issues: international fisheries agreements in relation to cuts of payments from the financial instrument for fisheries guidance.
Secondly, there has been an amendment, also accepted by the Committee on Budgets, relating to the new Community agency for fisheries control, in which this Parliament has shown great interest and which requires a contribution so that it can be implemented urgently.
They are Amendments Nos 98 and 99.
This Parliament's objective is for all the councils provided for in the Community legislation to be operational during next year and in order to achieve this, we need an increase of some EUR 500 000.
In the second case, relating to improving scientific information, neither the Council nor the Commission have provided for an increase on last year.
Mr President, I believe that we, unlike other committees, have only proposed an increase of EUR 3 million compared to the preliminary draft budget; I would therefore ask you to support the amendments of the Committee on Fisheries. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner Schreyer, speaking as rapporteur for the Committee on Culture and Education, I would like to start by stressing that our Budget policy over the coming years should reflect our identity as a continent of art, culture and cultural diversity, in which we, as Europeans, take such pride.
For that reason, it is not fortuitous that all the members of the Culture Committee took the view that we had to reject the Council’s reduction in funds for cultural policy, for there can be no credible cultural policy in a Europe of 25 Member States if the funds for it are cut in 2005, the first year in which there is a single Budget for all of them.
That concludes my statement on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, I would like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee on Budgets and in particular the general rapporteur, our friend Mr Garriga Polledo, for having supported and approved the majority of the amendments presented by our committee.
Firstly, following the Fourniret affair, which has recently shaken Belgium and France, we have provided for a new budgetary line to allow the Commission to make proposals with a view to organising the interconnection of national registers of criminal convictions for crimes such as paedophilia, sexual assault and serious crimes committed by repeat offenders.
Secondly, with regard to the visa information system, commonly know as the VIS, we have put most of the appropriations in reserve, and they will not be released until the Commission has presented a second proposal precisely defining the architecture and functioning of the VIS system itself, as it has said it will.
This is a delicate area in terms of the protection of personal information.
It is not that we question the importance of that agency and the need to make it operational as quickly as possible, quite the opposite, but we shall release the appropriations in reserve when the Council has made the decision on the final headquarters of the agency.
We call on the Council to give its opinion before the end of this year.
Fourthly, we have also put in reserve most of the appropriations requested for the line relating to the rights of passengers.
Of course it is desirable and urgent to organise better cooperation amongst the Member States in this field, but it must be done according to rules, and in a preparatory action there are no rules.
In accordance with Declaration&#160;5, annexed to the Treaty of Nice, the Heads of State or Government have formally been calling on the Council to rule on this issue since 1 May 2004, pursuant to the procedure laid down in Article&#160;251, that is to say, qualified majority and codecision.
The Council has done nothing, ignoring the will of the Heads of Government and the rights of Parliament.
I would like the Council’s institutional infringement to be penalised, in accordance with Amendment No 146 presented by the Committee on Civil Liberties. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, how can the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs be summed up in sixty seconds?
First of all, we wanted to re-establish what the Council had taken away: I am referring in particular to the budget lines relating to the information relays or the Jean Monnet action programme.
Democracy does not have a price but it does have a cost, and I hope that the Council will finally understand that.
As my fellow Members have done, I would like to end by congratulating our Commissioner, Mrs Schreyer, on the excellent work she has done over the last five years with this Parliament, and on another more personal note, I would like to express my hope, my dear Michaele, that tomorrow, on the turn of a vote, your mandate will be extended by a few weeks. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I too wish to thank the Commissioner for having, over recent years, supported the Committee on Women’s Rights in its endeavour to advance gender budgeting.
As our committee does not have that many Budget lines to administer, this horizontal policy is of particular importance to us.
Hence it has been our great concern that the amendments should be used to achieve progress in this area by laying down minimum margins in the major programmes, in MEDA, in the major cooperation programmes, including those with other countries, in aid for Afghanistan and for Iraq.
If we really want change, minimum rates must be laid down.
It was a Budget for only 15 Member States, for a Union of only 375 million people.
What I expect to be my last speech to this House has to do with the first Budget for a European Union with 25 Member States.
Not one day goes past when I do not rejoice that we have managed to overcome the division of Europe, and that now, here in Strasbourg and in Brussels, policies can be made for a Union of 450 million people.
The Budget itself has become more political.
Over recent years, Budgets have been at their lowest in the recent history of their kind in the European Union.
According to all the institutions – the Council, Parliament and the Commission – the 2005 Budget requires at least EUR&#160;116 billion in commitment appropriations.
It is, of course, because there is very little room for manoeuvre, as so much was laid down both by Agenda 2000 and in the accession treaties.
Likewise, in 2005, it is highly probable that we will find it impossible to manage the foreign policy budget without having recourse to funds from the flexibility reserve.
It is gratifying to learn that the Council has now decided to treat this financial package as additional.
In response to a request from the Council, the Commission also proposes, as part of the 2005 Budget, the continuation of the PEACE programme for Northern Ireland for another two years.
There are important and good reasons for this.
If, though, we take them seriously, more must in future be made available from the European Budget for such investments in the future as research, education and innovation.
I now hope that the European Parliament, the European Council and the future Commission will take very wise decisions, not only in relation to the Budget for 2005, but also, and in particular, to the next Financial Perspective.
Our group supports austerity measures with respect to administrative expenditure and supports maximum efficiency in the use of European Union budgetary funds, and the elimination of wasteful expenditure and of duplication of functions between European Union institutions.
We consider that such an approach should be applied to all European Union institutions, including the Council and the European Parliament.
Of course, the enlargement of the European Union has caused the European Union’s budgetary expenditure to increase.
The PPE-DE Group is in favour of providing the means necessary for satisfying the requirements arising from the enlargement of the European Union.
However, the PPE-DE Group considers the creation of new posts to be permissible only on submission of a clear and comprehensive justification of the need for such posts.
The same principle applies to supplementary budget requests connected to the introduction of the new Financial Regulation and the new Staff Regulations in the European Union.
The proportion of total expenditure that is represented by administrative expenses is one of the indicators in evaluating the effectiveness of the policies implemented by the European Union.
Our task and that of all other European institutions is to strive to increase the effectiveness of the policies implemented by the European Union.
Let me also pay tribute to my two fellow-Members who are now this House’s rapporteurs – Mr Salvador Garriga Polledo, and Mrs Anne Jensen in particular, who took over the work of rapporteur only a month ago.
At the same time, we must always bear in mind that it is the taxpayer’s money that we are spending, and we are obliged to be very careful in what we do with it.
Let me clarify that by using two or three examples.
We will tighten our belts, even in this Budget procedure.
I would like to say a special thank you, however, to Commissioner Schreyer for the outstanding degree of cooperation she has shown, not just this year, but across the whole five-year period of the last Parliamentary term.
The EU budget for 2005 aims to foster economic growth.
The special areas of focus in the committee’s proposal are the enhancement of economic cohesion and the creation of employment, and we believe they are the correct ones.
The committee has proposed an additional EUR 40&#160;million for the prevention of animal diseases.
It has been crucial to validate the relevant budget headings and to strengthen support for small and medium-sized businesses as well as research and training programmes.
My group backs these proposals.
The proposal before us, possibly in amended form, will be Parliament’s first chance to present its view of next year’s budget.
Hopefully, the budget will be approved, by December, in a positive spirit. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, I too welcome this opportunity to reiterate the warm gratitude of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to Commissioner Schreyer for the work she has done.
Let me start by emphasising that we generally endorse the broad outlines of what our rapporteur, Mr Garriga Polledo, has said, and by following a number of the previous speakers in illustrating this by reference to a number of policy areas.
Mr Walter has just pointed out that, as an increase in their number was what we wanted, the Council must be willing to make new funds available to the new agencies, for we cannot allow the policy of decentralised agencies to result in a price war in European politics.
I would also like to stress something that Mr Garriga Polledo said, that this House and the Committee on Budgets possess the political will to counteract terrorism, the fundamentalism that strengthens it, and totalitarian thinking.
The majority of our group, however, think the budget is too stringent, as the priorities highlighted by Parliament are not being implemented, especially in the area of external relations.
Of the priorities set out by the rapporteur for the Commission’s budget, we support the idea of highlighting the importance of the Lisbon Strategy, but we regret that the large parliamentary groups were unwilling to increase funding in areas relating to employment and social welfare.
It is our experience that both the Commission and Parliament are channelling these funds for purposes of propaganda, and are trying to influence the final result of the referenda in the Member States.
Money set aside for information on the EU is all too often used for persuasive advertising, without presenting all the sides of an issue.
The national parties in our group do not constitute a common European political party.
Not all parties on the left wish to restrict their freedom of action with some sort of rigid party line or enforced solidarity at Union level.
We await with interest the negotiations between Parliament and the Council for the second reading of the budget.
In Polish politics there is a principle according to which ‘nothing about us without us’ should ever be done.
The acceptance of these countries into the European Union should act as a catalyst for a change in EU economic policy to ensure that the backwardness I referred to is eliminated as quickly as possible.
The draft 2005 budget is not a good response to this challenge, as it only represents 1.03% of countries’ GDP, and the amount by which budget expenditure will grow will not be much greater than the contributions paid in by the new Member States.
As in previous years, a budget surplus can be anticipated, because it is likely that not all the money in the Structural Funds will be spent.
The Structural Funds will be increased, but only by a small amount.
In a situation such as that in Poland, where the EU imposed significant restrictions on the majority of producers, aid cannot compensate for these losses.
If it wishes to overcome its problems, the EU must understand that investment in the new Member States would be the most effective form of investment.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Thank you, Mr&#160;President.
I should also like to say on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group that in principle we accept the strategy whereby Parliament reinstates the budget figures suggested by the Commission and reduced by the Council.
We must respect public opinion in our countries, and public opinion is very divided on this issue.
We welcome the reinstatement of funding for programmes under the budget line covering TACIS and MEDA, which are of particular interest to our group.
We are, however, concerned at the ambiguous position adopted by the Committee on Budgets with regard to our amendment.
In order to ensure that the right to choose is a genuine right, and not a mere mockery of the phrase, we call for this House to vote in favour of our amendment, Amendment&#160;No&#160;5.
This does not, of course, change the fact that in principle the UEN&#160;Group supports the draft 2005 budget in the version put forward by the Committee on Budgets, and will vote in favour of this draft at its first reading.
Yesterday the President of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, stated that 2003 was accompanied by sluggish growth of just 0.5% of GDP.
Moreover, unlike the budget for 2004, the EU budget for 2005 now has to reflect a&#160;full year’s membership of the ten new Member States.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me join in the gratitude expressed for the five years we have been able to spend working with the Commissioner.
That is what we have to discuss among ourselves today – where it is that Europe can become visible, where we can create added European value that gives people visible evidence of where our priorities lie, and where Europe makes a contribution to progress.
There have already been many proposals relating to this from both Lisbon and the German Government, and I would like to see them put into practice.
That, too, has been mentioned, and, as the old priorities have become irrelevant, we have opted for a tough approach to the Budget, and I hope we will get out of the Council some sensible results that will help, not only to make this Europe of ours visible, but also to make savings where it really is possible to do so. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to express my agreement with the criticisms already made and, above all, the criticisms of the Council's budgetary irresponsibility.
Nothing was provided for in the figures in May 1999, and unexpected revisions have been required every year.
This Parliament has had to accept some of the cuts to its traditional policies proposed by the Council.
After five budgetary years, these cuts amount to a very significant sum for a development aid policy which is diminishing in relative terms, while we are constantly saying that we want a Europe which is open to the world.
Despite the fact that our Parliament was able to increase the Berlin figures for administrative spending in Category 5, we have been faced with budgetary restrictions which I believe have led to increased inefficiency in the Commission's work.
In this connection, I should immediately add another comment about the Commission, because in the letter of amendment for next year’s agricultural budget, two initiatives have been included with regard to the quality of agricultural products and the future funding of infectious animal diseases.
Moreover, the self-same Council has difficulty reaching a decision as to the location of those agencies.
Sometimes they appear in the most bizarre places in Europe and are accommodated elsewhere temporarily.
It is unacceptable for one branch of the budgetary authority to take unilateral decisions that have financial implications, without indicating how these should be funded in future.
As for Heading 4, this year’s Budget is again a very tight one.
Just as we did last year, I think it is inevitable that we will again have recourse to the flexibility reserve. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Schreyer has done a good job, and she well deserves the respect of this House.
In essence I agree with you, and I am very grateful for the way in which you contradicted your own country’s government’s ideas about a shrinking budget.
I believe that we must – and will – take account of this in the structure of budgets in medium-term financial planning.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that I am not alone in thinking that one of the most important tasks and goals for the enlarged European Union of 25 Member States is unquestionably social cohesion on as wide a scale as possible, in order to guarantee living and working conditions.
Its aim is rather to achieve a greater degree of balance and solidarity between the Member States and to guarantee equal opportunities on the labour market and in the social sphere.
In contrast, expenditure on the common foreign and security policy will rise.
Many of the social problems experienced by citizens of the new Member States are in part due to the fulfilment of economic demands the European Union made of these Member States.
This budget should form the basis for future financial planning, and we believe that it could have been more restrictive.
That being said, we of course have nothing against re-prioritising within the framework set up by the Commission and the Council.
As Mrs&#160;Schreyer said, these constitute 55% of the budget, and that is quite unreasonable.
In the long term, it is not a good division of labour to have one body that proposes expenditure and another whose task it is to obtain the money.
That is from where the tensions arise. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to add my thanks for the Commissioner's excellent work over the past five years and to wish him well in his future career.
The European Union clearly has to prioritise its budgetary commitments.
It recently brought out proposals to increase cooperation within the Union on international terrorism and organised crime.
The European Union is in a strong position to promote cooperation on asylum and immigration and to promote judicial and police cooperation.
The budget in these fields is going to increase next year and in the 2007–2013 financial perspective.
I should also like to emphasise my support for the agriculture budget, particularly in view of the fact that we have sold the mid-term review to our farmers and they expect that commitment to be honoured.
EU governments are also committed to playing a key role in the reconstruction of Iraq; the EU made a five-year commitment at the donors' conference in 2003 and will be at the forefront in providing financial assistance to the new Iraqi administration.
The budget for next year is going to have to take account of these commitments.
Although there have been differences within the European Union as to how best to deal with Iraq, we are all agreed now that the European Union must remain at the forefront of this reconstruction effort.
This is equivalent to acting by stealth, and, to quote Professor von Arnim, a researcher into political parties, to an undercover source of funding that may be turned on at any time at the taxpayer’s cost.
This is normal towards the end of a Financial Perspective, when new tasks appear for which no provision was made earlier, and funds are eaten up by these tasks.
The votes held in the Committee on Budgets have revealed an offensive strategy endorsed by Mr&#160;Garriga, according to which Parliament expresses itself clearly and creates room for manoeuvre before the second round, or the second reading, in order to defend its traditional priorities.
These priorities include those mentioned many times in today’s debate, such as the Lisbon Strategy, information policy, development aid for rural areas, which does not necessarily mean the creation of jobs in agriculture, and the fight against terrorism.
This time the priorities did not leave much room for new initiatives by the new Member States, something that needs to change in future years.
The Barroso Commission looks as though it will be a poor ally in this battle and, in this area as well, Parliament must become the main champion of the institutions’ credibility and win back the confidence of the people.
The most important of these is the commitment to relaunch the growth and competitiveness strategy.
We have done a good job in the Committee on Budgets, one that ought to be supported further.
The same is true for the cohesion policy and external policies: according to the Council, the cost of the reconstruction of Iraq should be borne by the Union’s normal programmes.
I agree with Mr Lewandowski’s appeal: on Thursday Parliament can vote by a large majority at first reading to ensure a successful outcome for the credibility of our institution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the European Bureau for Lesser–Used Languages is running short of funds.
We must therefore respond to this Council proposal with a categorical ‘no’, in order to provide ourselves with the opportunity to achieve a sensible relationship between the Member States with regard to development in various policy areas.
We should reject this budget. &#160;&#160; In relation to the Budget, Mr President, we are concerned about the positions of the new prospective Commissioner for the Budget, Mrs&#160;Grybauskaite, who is apparently announcing the death of the common agricultural policy; that is a warning for the French farmers.
Our Parliament's Committee on Budgets is, however, partly responsible, since it practises a form of clientelism which leads to a dramatic increase in the Community budget of 11.72% in payment appropriations compared to 2004.
The irresponsibility of our Parliament will lead to an increase in France's contribution to the Community budget of more than a billion euros.
Europe risks becoming a financial bottomless pit, and we do not want to fall into it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to respond to Mr Gollnisch’s claim that France is the largest contributor to the European Union; it is in fact my own country.
As far as the agricultural component is concerned, I have to say that 40% is allocated to France, and in my country, 60% of the farmers and market gardeners have to make do without any European contribution.
In some cases, incomes are being halved.
I am pleased that the Commission intends to put this right to some extent, and I am also pleased with the rapporteur’s commitment, for he has, in the area of agriculture in any event, shown his good nature and his willingness to revert back to the Commission’s first initiative and to rectify this digression on the part of the Council of Ministers.
These regional fishery councils could bridge the gap between what is happening in Brussels and how this should be applied in practice.
My last point concerns animal diseases.
As far as I am concerned, the research stage is over and I am pleased with the initiatives by the Dutch Presidency, both at Parliamentary level in November and also via the Council in December, to organise two large conferences in order to achieve better European policy with regard to protection against animal diseases, such as, at the moment, avian flu in Thailand and in Asia.
Such an approach packs far more punch than filling the coffers of yet another research fund, because, although we have by now acquired a great deal of knowledge, we still have not summoned the political decisiveness in order to effectively deal with the risks of infectious animal diseases. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to congratulate both the rapporteurs, and especially Mrs&#160;Jensen, who took on responsibility for her report halfway through the year.
I believe the problems arise because we have no opportunity to appreciate the behind the Council's decisions to increase the budget lines or decrease them.
These decisions are taken behind closed doors.
If the Council is serious in wanting Parliament to support its approach, then it needs to make these decisions in the public arena.
What is urgently needed there is greater openness and a thorough evaluation of programmes, of successes and failures, to ensure that when programmes are re-targeted or re-evaluated, this is done on the basis of independent evaluation.
Of course they simplify voting procedures, but they also create two problems.
Firstly, they blur the decisions taken by COBU and, secondly, the result is that fewer and fewer people are involved in decision-making, both within Parliament and within the political groups.
Finally, I call on the Council, the Commission, Parliament and the other institutions to take this opportunity to take radical action so that future budgets are simple and transparent.
I would also like to add my thanks to Commissioner Schreyer.
I would like to thank her for all her work in this area and wish her all the best for the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, like other speakers in this debate, I should like to congratulate both rapporteurs.
It is never an easy matter to represent this House on budgetary matters, whether in relation to the Commission's or Parliament's budget.
Of course, we are not at the end of the budget procedure but already in this big, first public debate we have come a considerable way.
It is always nice to be right in retrospect, but I would agree with Mrs Dührkop that when funding a budget, we should clearly set the priorities that we wish to set as between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament, so that we do not find other objectives submerged within a broader political will.
This will be highly necessary when we come to set the next financial perspective: we must not be found wanting in this particular area of external policy.
Therefore, we would like those amendments available to us before we come to final decisions on the financial perspective next year.
Lastly, we have often pioneered the idea of interinstitutional cooperation.
Therefore, if we ask for a code of conduct we will have to apply it ourselves in the future to retain credibility. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said on the strategy adopted this year by this House with regard to the 2005 Budget.
We have always supported the Commission’s intention to concentrate on its core competencies and transfer certain areas to the agencies, but we want this to occur in a focused manner and under extremely strict political and budgetary control.
The Council is always in favour of creating new agencies, and since the Member States have been represented on agencies’ management boards this has been particularly true, above all in the case of agencies which implement European legislation.
We must, however, bear in mind that all but four agencies are funded under Heading 3, internal policies, where very little money remains.
We are therefore left with only two options; either we provide the funding earmarked for the agencies without complaint, and cut funding in other priority budget lines in order to find the money to do so; or we negotiate with the Council in order to increase funding under Heading 3 by the missing EUR&#160;54&#160;million.
I should now like to address Mrs Schreyer once again, and to thank her, as have all the previous speakers.
Even in its explanatory statement on the budget, the Council itself boasts that its General Secretariat has acquired a new, more dynamic, more flexible profile, a development of which, I repeat, the Council boasts, even adding that it will be demanding new terms for the benefit of the Council.
If we want to be taken notice of and to represent the Union, then we must send the message out in every direction that we are here and that our role is not cosmetic. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I, too, should like to express my appreciation for the work done by our rapporteurs, Mr Garriga and Mrs Jensen.
This would have a damaging effect on the defence of our interests and on European integration.
Let us continue the work that we have developed thus far with a new Commission, but without ever forgetting all that we have constructed together.
Thank you very much. &#160;&#160; Mr President, if you ask our constituents what they want from Europe, they will probably tell us to do less.
But they will also tell us that what we do, we must do better.
Commissioner, if you ask them what sort of things they want us to do, they say 'the things that protect us, the things that help us'.
Nowhere is that more true than in the areas of public health: in terms of the safety of medicines; in terms of food safety; and in terms of protection from diseases and health emergencies.
That is why I want to follow what Mrs Haug said about these agencies.
I ask the House to support the amendment on orphan drugs that Mrs Haug has tabled on behalf of the Environment Committee, and to look very carefully at funding for the future in that area.
The second example is the European Food Safety Authority, which is expected to move to Parma.
As a result it will not be possible to implement the expected recruitment policies.
Moreover, if we removed these subsidies, we would also remove a health threat. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too should like to start by warmly thanking our rapporteurs, Mr Garriga and Mrs Jensen, for their excellent work.
The 2005 budget is of particular importance.
It is the first Union budget following enlargement, while in 2005 we shall be half way through the Lisbon strategy timetable.
Unfortunately, the first reading by the Council was governed by a cutback rationale.
The Council displayed inconsistency between the objectives it has set and the resources which it ultimately decided to use in order to achieve them.
Ladies and gentlemen, at the first reading on Thursday, the European Parliament must support the restoration of the appropriations for structural policies, in accordance with the strategy which we also followed in the Committee on Budgets, with a sense of responsibility towards the citizens of Europe and towards the objectives which we have set.
We consider it necessary to reinforce policies which aim at sustainable development and employment.
We aim to strengthen social Europe and to give serious support to small and medium-sized enterprises.
We really need to use the first reading as part of our effort, by December, to make the 2005 budget a reliable development resource which will safeguard the smooth integration of the new Member States, the reduction in differences within the Union and the efficient implementation of European policies.
The vote will take place on Thursday.
Existing funding programmes, especially AGIS and Daphne, and previously STOP – which has now expired – continuously addressed the issues of child-trafficking, sexual exploitation of children, child pornography, violence against children in general and, in this context, the issue of missing children also.
In particular, both STOP and Daphne have been used to support financially the Childoscope project of the Belgian organisation Child Focus, and also the Institute for International Research on Criminal Policy of the University of Ghent, in line with the Council resolution of 2001 on the contribution of civil society to finding missing and sexually exploited children.
Programmes, such as AGIS and Daphne, however, focus on cooperation among EU Member States.
In principle, the creation of websites in the EU Member States that could be used to search out and find missing children could be an appropriate subject for funding using one of the relevant funding programmes.
The Commission can only encourage relevant governmental administrations and civil society organisations in the Member States to set up websites in the framework of the global network on missing children and submit appropriate project proposals for the relevant programmes. &#160;&#160; I thank the Commissioner for his answer.
I have two questions to put to the Commission.
It is very difficult to be precise and the accession of ten new Member States to the European Union does not make it any easier to give a general figure.
The additional measures agreed by the Council are designed to apply both direct political pressure and indirect economic pressure on the Burmese military regime.
Under these new measures, it would also be forbidden to provide loans or credits to Burmese state-owned enterprises.
The Commission is currently discussing with the Member States, but also with UN agencies and other donor organisations, the means which will allow us to optimise and expand our assistance from the budget to the Burmese people. &#160;&#160; I should like to ask the Commissioner if he could expand on the remark he made on the Council taking decisions regarding investment in state–owned companies.
Off the cuff, I cannot give the honourable Member details of all the companies that are, or will be, covered by the proposals, but I can certainly ensure that we correspond with him on the particular company that he has in mind.
It is always a trickier business to apply financial or economic sanctions than it sounds when one addresses the issue rhetorically.
Like, I am sure, every Member in this Parliament, I would like to see Aung San Suu Kyi released from house arrest.
My own judgement is that, a little like the case of Zimbabwe, it is more difficult to achieve the desired outcome if neighbouring countries and regional organisations do not cooperate in achieving a desired human rights objective.
I hope that, in this case, ASEAN will act rather more vigorously in the future than it has in the recent past.
My own personal view is that it would help to raise this question regularly in the Security Council.
Whether that position would be shared by say, China, or some other Member States of the United Nations, I am not sure.
But if I may make a point about two countries which have a strong relationship with Burma, China and India, I think they should both recognise that Burma is a destabilising force in their region and the sooner they work with others to help achieve a more democratic regime there, the better off the whole region will be. &#160;&#160; Can I tempt my right honourable friend to agree that this House was right, and the foreign ministers were wrong, over the decision to permit Burma to attend the ASEM Summit?
The focus is understandably on Aung San Suu Kyi, both because of her record and because of her international status.
On his first question, we know Parliament took a more vigorous view of ASEM and Burmese participation in the Council.
The diligence with which we pursue these policies is not always as popular with some Member States as it might be.
As regards the financing of non-military crisis management operations, the rules referred to in the question are laid down not only in the Financial Regulation, but also in its implementing rules.
The implementing rules already offer simplified procurement procedures for crisis situations in external relations, such as the use of negotiated procedures.
The Commission undertook to report on its experiences after the first two years of application of these new rules, that is, by the spring of 2005.
This review will cover both the Financial Regulation and its implementing rules in order to see if, in the light of experience, any modifications to the rules are necessary, including the procurement rules for external actions in general and for crisis management operations in particular.
I hope that is relatively clear. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, although I do of course agree with you that military operations are excluded from funding under the EU budget, my question relates to the police operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In my experience it is not always possible for us to operate as rapidly as we would like, and that is because of the rules which have been put in place, usually with good reasons – greater transparency, proper budgetary procedure, etc.
Unfortunately, when people draw up those rules they do not always think about the real world in which we have to operate. &#160;&#160; The next item is the second part of Question Time, during which the Commissioners present at this sitting will answer questions.
The Commission came to the conclusion that further efforts had been made to step up measures against torture and ill-treatment, with the provisions of the new Penal Code playing an important role in this connection.
Further efforts must be made in this regard by the Turkish Government.
With regard to Turkey’s progress towards accession, the Commission stresses in its recommendation that reform processes and the fight against torture and ill-treatment, which are to be extended, must also be consolidated, and that the Commission will continue to monitor this process closely. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, my question was, in fact, whether the Commission intends in future to send investigation teams to Turkey as soon as there are complaints about incidents of torture in that country.
The answer to the first is a clear ‘yes’.
The Commission will continue to take all necessary measures, firstly to help Turkey in its fight against torture and ill-treatment, and secondly in order to monitor current developments.
With regard to the second question, as a candidate country Turkey naturally undertakes to comply fully with the political criteria, as do all candidate countries.
During this period both the European Union and Turkey will experience economic developments which are as yet unknown to us, the budget of the European Union may undergo far-reaching changes of which we are unaware, and expenditure on related policies may also change.
Turkey’s accession will not cost more than the Member States and the Community budget are prepared to spend at that point in time. &#160;&#160; &#160;Thank you, Madam&#160;President.
In fact this 4% ceiling has never been reached for the large Member States such as Spain, Italy or Poland, and it never will be.
The Commission attaches great importance to the ongoing reforms of public administration and the judiciary in both countries.
Romania still needs to ensure, however, that these measures are implemented successfully.
A strategy was adopted in Bulgaria over a year ago on reform of the public administration, not least as a result of a great deal of pressure on my part, and in general the country is making good progress with its implementation.
With regard to the judiciary, Bulgaria is continuing to make progress in implementing the 2001 strategy on judicial reform, even though there have been delays in certain areas.
The Commission is closely monitoring developments in this field, and has supported these reforms by means of pre-accession assistance and close cooperation with other donors, including the Member States.
In addition, informal committees on reforms of the public administration and judiciary will be set up in order to conduct a structured dialogue with both countries on these issues and to monitor and support the extension of operative capacities in both fields. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
The issue of corruption was also raised in a great many of these complaints.
Although there are signs of progress in both countries, overall I should like to make it clear that I am not yet satisfied with the progress made in the fight against corruption in either of them.
These programmes provide for the funding of measures to promote cross-border, transnational and transregional cooperation in the regions of EU Member States.
The European Union provides cofinancing for structural policy measures in the Greek regions&#160;under the third Community Support Framework for Greece, which covers the period from 2000 to 2006, and programmes have been agreed for the regions of Western, Central and Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, the aim of which is to promote development and structural adjustment.
The northern regions are also involved in a number of cross-border programmes, which include firstly the EUR&#160;46.6&#160;million INTERREG programme for Greece and Turkey, which was approved in late 2003, although no measures have yet been implemented under it.
Thirdly, the northern regions are involved in INTERREG/CARDS for Greece and Albania, as well as INTERREG/CARDS for Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The INTERREG/CARDS programmes are likely to be converted shortly into Neighbourhood Programmes in order to promote and strengthen cooperation between Greece and Albania and between Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Pre-accession assistance for Turkey will begin with the 2004 programme, and includes a component for cross-border cooperation between Turkey and Greece, with annual funding of around EUR&#160;2&#160;million at present.
The project’s aim is to improve cross-border cooperation between Greece and Turkey at a local level and to support the development of the economic potential of border regions.
It is expected that funding for these measures will be increased in future years.
Environmental issues are second on the list of priorities, and after Bulgaria and Romania join the EU cross-border cooperation between Greece and Bulgaria will be promoted under INTERREG on both sides of the border. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, following the transition to the Europe of the 25, the definition of border regions has surely also changed.
Moreover, the Commission itself has confirmed that the Greek regions in question face very serious problems according to criteria of income, the strength of the labour market and human resources.
As soon as Bulgaria joins the EU, this programme will be discontinued and replaced by a normal INTERREG programme at the border between Bulgaria and Greece, as is usually the case between Member States.
It is not my impression that a lower level of funding is to be expected at this border, indeed rather the opposite, in view of the high priority accorded to the Western Balkans in our strategic considerations.
Thirdly, programmes exist in relation to the border with the candidate country Turkey, and more funding will be made available for this border region as part of the intensive cooperation with Turkey, which is only in its initial stages.
Overall, it can be said that purely technical alterations will be made to certain aspects of the situation in the Greek border regions, but that there is no reason to expect that funding will be reduced; in fact, it is more likely that the opposite will be true. &#160;&#160; Question No 44 will be answered in writing.
That is also true for the opinion that Advocate-General Léger issued on 25 May 2004 in case C-438/02 Åklagaren versus Krister Hanner, regarding the compatibility of Apoteket, the monopoly that exists in Sweden for the distribution of medicinal products, with certain Treaty provisions on the free movement of goods and the right of establishment (Articles 28, 31 and 43).
Having thoroughly examined the Systembolaget system with regard to points of sale, choice of products and promotional activities, the Court decided that the monopoly sales structure of Systembolaget was compatible with Article 31 of the Treaty.
The reason for the question is that not only the issue of pharmacies but also that of the Swedish state monopoly on the sale of alcoholic beverages, Systembolaget, is mentioned in the Advocate-General’s opinion.
According to the case law of the Court of Justice and Article 10 of the Treaty, when a Member State encounters difficulty in enforcing a Commission decision requiring the reimbursement of an illegal and incompatible state aid, the Member State and the Commission must cooperate in order to find a solution to the difficulty.
This kind of cooperation is currently taking place between Spain and the Commission.
They will be very intensive days, at least for competition policy.
The decision to begin the formal investigation procedure was actually adopted on 17 September 2003, once information had been forwarded by the Italian authorities on 4 July 2003.
The Commission is monitoring the recovery procedure and may take the case to the Court of Justice if it is not properly carried out. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I just wish to state that I am quite satisfied with the Commissioner’s answer, and I take the opportunity to thank him not only for all he has done in carrying out his mandate for Europe but also for the prestige he has brought to our country. &#160;&#160; . – May I just thank Mrs&#160;Sbarbati very much for her kind words?
With the support of Parliament, the Commission has tried to put in place appropriate mechanisms, within the limits of the financial resources available.
The Commission is currently completing its analysis of the evidence gathered, and at this stage it is still too early to say whether or not there has been any infringement of competition law or whether the proceedings can be closed.
The Commission will, of course, make any further news on this matter public as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I thank the Commissioner for his response.
I should nevertheless like to point out – and I have investigated this for myself – that 75 cl of ink-jet printer ink is more expensive than a bottle of champagne.
I very much have the impression that this is a case of tied selling, whereby printers are sold at bargain prices and ink is very much overpriced.
We live and work in a social market economy and it is of paramount importance that the Commission ensures that the conditions for competition are in place, pursuant to European law.
But I am sure that just as this Commission did, the incoming Commission will closely monitor all the phenomena which might violate competition rules, causing adverse effects for European consumers. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Monti.
Under EU food law, origin labelling is not mandatory, unless the origin is clearly connected with one or more characteristics of a foodstuff, or it is necessary that the purchaser should not be misled as to its true origin, for instance where its name includes a geographical reference.
The recently adopted Food and Feed Regulation aims to harmonise controls on all other imported food products.
These measures ensure that the food standards applied in the export sector of third countries trading with the EU meet EU food safety requirements. &#160;&#160; At the outset, I wish to compliment the Commissioner on his good work in a very difficult area.
In those circumstances it is a matter for the competent authorities of the Member States, and in this instance the competent authorities in Ireland, to ensure that any failure to comply with EU legislation is properly investigated and dealt with in the appropriate manner.
It certainly would not be the wish of the Commission to see any failure to comply with legislation of this kind and this is a matter which should be dealt with properly and by the competent authorities of the Member State in question. &#160;&#160; My question is about the Commission's position on the fact that the law of the Russian Federation on additional guarantees and compensations for military servicemen etc., in its versions of 21 January 1993, 21&#160;July&#160;1993 etc. … &#160;&#160; I regret that I have to interrupt you, Mr&#160;Landsbergis.
Studies in the US, South Africa and Scandinavia suggest that one in 300 infants is affected by FAS.
I fully share her concerns on this issue.
Possible guidelines on these could be included in the Commission's working paper on alcohol, which is planned for next year.
The Commission also intends to prepare a report on the application of Council recommendations on alcohol and young people from 2001, which, among other things, will address the need for further action.
These would include information on, for instance, pregnancy.
In the 2005 work plan, the focus of activities will be on promoting mental health and preventing mental disorders in children, adolescents and young people, based on improved data collection and analysis.
The Commission welcomes the recent adoption of the Council of Europe’s recommendation concerning the protection of the human rights and dignity of persons with mental disorders.
It also supports the UN standard rules for the equalisation of opportunities for people with disabilities as well as the efforts to establish a UN legally binding instrument to protect the rights and dignity of persons with disabilities.
The Commission is aware of the use of caged beds within psychiatric and social care facilities in Hungary and Slovenia as well as in Slovakia and the Czech Republic and welcomes the report on this issue that was published in 2003 by the Mental Disability Advocacy Center.
As a result of this report, the Commission made enquiries about the exact position on the use of caged beds in these countries and drew the attention of the national authorities to the necessity to remedy this problem.
The Commission has launched a study on conditions in institutions in all the 25 Member States in order to establish the situation that currently exists, with a focus on disabled persons.
The findings of this study, undertaken by Inclusion Europe, were presented in Brussels on 22 and 23 October.
These conditions are sometimes unacceptable and do not respect the most elementary requirements of human respect and dignity.
The report is intended to provide a useful tool for all disability decision- makers by providing accurate, dynamic and up-to-date information on the situation of people with disabilities throughout the European Union.
I would like to place on the record our thanks as a Parliament for his work for public health over the last five years, particularly in the area of mental health and the way he has ensured that this issue has risen up the agenda.
That includes such things as caged beds, which should not be a part of any country's policy.
Rights and dignity must be the future of European mental health policy. &#160;&#160; .
It has been a pleasure for me to work so closely with such experts in the field for the benefit of our citizens here in the European Union.
I accept his invitation to repeat what I have just said in relation to this issue, that the protection of those with disabilities, particularly those with mental health disorders in the European Union, is of paramount importance.
Their human rights and dignity ought to be respected by all Member States.
This is the last opportunity that I will have to thank Commissioner Byrne for all his help and great leadership over many crises over the last five years.
We have worked together and I now look forward to a deep friendship in the future. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Crowley.
Questions No 56 to 93 will be answered in writing.
