On 28 February 2007, the Commission issued a reasoned opinion on an urgent basis requesting Poland to comply with EC environmental law within a week.
The ECJ President granted that on 18 April and I hope that is a very strong message to the Polish authorities who are involved with this scheme.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Madam President, my group supports the Commission in this dispute with the Polish Government.
The Commission was right to warn the Polish Government against the construction of this section of the motorway.
As a European Member State, Poland has the duty to protect the Rospuda valley, and, whilst it has proposed measures that are intended to compensate for the destruction of part of the nature conservation area, this compensation is inadequate.
Pacta sunt servanda: treaties are there to be complied with.
The first point of view is a practical one, involving the people who live there and who use those roads.
We, as Members of the European Parliament, and the European institutions should take care to ensure that, for the good of citizens and in order to improve their safety, all Member States plan their investment projects properly, in line with European Union directives and environmental protection standards.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Thank you, Madam President and Mrs Grybauskaitė.
As a result, however, this delay is causing not only residents of Poland to suffer, particularly those in the eastern region, who may use this stretch of road every day, but also three entire European Union Member States - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - and not only citizens travelling to the European Union but also a large section of industry, since 4 500 lorries pass through the town of Augustów daily via this stretch of road.
It worries me that these three Baltic States are in fact not connected with the European Union via a normal, modern highway.
These three Baltic States are not connected with the European Union through Poland by rail, since it seems that the Rail Baltica section in this region will encounter the same difficulties in complying with environmental requirements.
So I call on the Commission and all other parties, including the Polish Government, which can reach these decisions within a reasonable length of time, to reflect upon this issue not only from the viewpoint of Poland and Europe's environmental needs, but also from the point of view of the interests of these three European Union Member States.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Madam President, the Polish Government is issuing a challenge to the European Institutions.
At the same time, I can state that there are clear alternatives which are more viable, more economical and which could serve the same purpose as this road.
I hope that the European Commission will stand firm, and that means not sending any more regional funds until Poland realises that being part of the European club means obeying the rules.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Madam President, most of the EU Member States that acceded in 2004 and 2007 possess well-developed railway networks.
On 2 July 2002, Commissioner Wallström stated by way of response to my written requests that Poland should adapt its Via Baltica plans.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, it is a good thing that we, despite the urbanisation that goes hand in hand with increasing prosperity, still boast valuable nature conservation areas within the European Union's borders.
These areas form part of the Natura 2000 network, which does something very important by ensuring that nature in the European Union is accorded a protected status, and, for example, by helping to maintain biodiversity.
At least, that is how it should be.
The Polish Government seeks to build the new road, the Via Baltica, right across the Natura 2000 area of the Rospuda Valley.
I know that this is a very sensitive issue in Poland.
I am delighted that the Commission has issued warnings to the Polish Government, and that, when it received no response to its demands, it brought the matter before the European Court of Justice.
It is to be hoped that the Court's ruling of 18 April, according to which the Polish Government should stop the compensation measures with immediate effect, will be a message for the future - a message that Member States cannot simply tamper with valuable nature conservation sites. - (PL) Madam President, the planned construction of the Via Baltica has caused a lot of controversy, as have many other trans-European transport routes.
It argues that the decision regarding the project was made before Poland joined the European Union, when Poland was not bound by the strict requirements of the European Union directives on birds and habitats.
To this day, in spite of the support of over 60 Members, no permission has been granted for a debate on the biggest environmental threat resulting from the construction of the North European Gas Pipeline under the Baltic sea.
I would like to remind you that over 10% of marine areas are part of the Natura 2000 network and no one, literally no one, has taken this issue up in the European Parliament.
At the moment, when important areas of biodiversity are being destroyed before the very eyes of environmentalists and the whole of Europe, there seems to be no will to discuss the issue of the environmental threat to our only internal sea, namely the Baltic. (PL) Madam President, the Polish PSE delegation in the European Parliament has stressed the need for the construction of the Augustów bypass for a long time.
However, the chosen construction plan for the new road, which will pass through the Rospuda Valley, will certainly have a negative impact on the ecosystem, which is unique in Europe and is located in an area that is protected by the Natura 2000 programme.
Allowing the Augustów bypass to pass through the valley will cause irreparable damage to the natural environment, including the destruction of 20 000 trees and the disappearance of extremely rare plants and animal species.
I think that the Polish Government should make a real effort to draw up alternative solutions to the problem as soon as possible. (LT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Augustavas bypass should become part of the Via Baltica.
The European Commission has appealed to the European Court of Justice against Poland's building of the Augustavas bypass on the Via Baltica, which was commenced before Poland joined the EU.
The territory is protected by the Natura 2000 programme.
However, no such environmental protection issues have been raised concerning the Nord Stream gas pipeline, which is projected to pass through Natura 2000 territory and which may lead to unpredictable ecological consequences.
However, nature is not mute in this conflict.
Everything has its price. (PL) Madam President, the Via Baltica is most important in terms of increasing cohesion within the European Union.
This region of Poland is very rich in natural resources: flora, fauna, lakes, forests and the entire landscape.
The first is environmental and the other is political.
There is much to do and there is no need to interfere with those who are doing an honest job. (PL) Madam President, the European Commission decided to file a case against Poland at the European Court of Justice because it began to build a section of road that was 1 500 metres longer than the road that is currently used by lorries and five kilometres of which infringes on land protected by the Natura 2000 programme.
The habitats directive permits investment in projects on Natura 2000 land in exceptional circumstances, if compensation is offered.
If the aforementioned road is not going to be built soon, we should perhaps consider opening negotiations with Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, with a view to diverting transit traffic from the Baltic states through these countries. (ET) Madam President, as a representative of Estonia, I would like to emphasise the importance of the Via Baltica.
This spring, for instance, it took more than 12 hours to get from Tallinn to Warsaw by car, and this is not as it should be.
We hope that the European Court of Justice will soon make its decision and that a compromise can be reached between the Commission and the Polish authorities as soon as possible.
