I would like to remind you once again that we originally agreed on a series of interinstitutional declarations which this report calls to be implemented and which we are handing over to the newly elected Parliament in the form of guidelines for the future conduct of the European Parliament in its debates over the next few months.
This is why I am calling on the Commission to present a proposal in the autumn which will not only cover the period after 2013, but will also include a review of the Financial Perspective and open up new prospects for the future.
For this reason, in the Committee on Budgets we have voted with a large majority in favour of a three-step approach: resolution of the shortcomings and obvious deficits in the outstanding issues that we have not been able to negotiate successfully and clarification that there are budget headings - the main areas of emphasis of our policies - which are chronically under-funded.
Our proposal is to resolve these problems in an ambitious review and, at the same time, to extend the existing Financial Perspective until 2015 or even 2016, so that in the long term we achieve the necessary democratic legitimacy in the financial framework.
In addition, we must not forget, in particular in the context of the debate on the European Investment Bank, to ensure that there are no shadow budgets outside the Community budget.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you very much for these two reports - which we can evaluate as being for the new Parliament and, probably, for the current Commission still, as well as for the new Commission - on how we will negotiate, what tools we will have to manage the European budget and what kind of future European budget it will be.
We have revised the financial framework three times - which had never happened before - Galileo, the Food Facility and, now, EUR 5 billion.
The Commission is ready, and will be ready, to negotiate on the basis of what you include in your report.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - (DE) Mr President, firstly I would like to give my support to the three-step approach to the mid-term review developed and presented by Mr Böge.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has managed to create a so-called zero budget.
I believe that, in particular in times of crisis, funds should be made available as quickly as possible.
I welcome Mr Böge's report because it also indicates areas where changes and improvements are needed, thereby paving the way for a more efficient European Union.
I am pleased that the report does not conflict with our stance on this issue.
Our committee believes that we need to initiate the debate again on the spending of the resources which we are losing due to the N+2/N+3 rule.
I would like to conclude by thanking Mr Böge for his constructive cooperation and the excellent report which he has compiled.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - (NL) Mr President, I had actually wanted, today, to address the Council, but I understand that no one from the Council is present and that somewhat less importance is therefore being attached to this debate.
We are also asking ourselves how the annual management plan can be integrated more effectively into the Annual Policy Strategy.
It is a good amendment, but it has no place in this report.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, out of this budget review, we simply have to ask ourselves one question: does the budget reflect the political priorities of the 21st century?
I personally think the annual policy strategy would be better if it was every two years or every two and a half years to fit in with the parliamentary cycle.
on behalf of the UEN group. - (PL) Mr President, both of the reports presented today are based on making assessments we have been forced to make by the decisions of various bodies of the European Union.
Mrs Grybauskaitė, I wish you the greatest success in the coming elections.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the vote on the current Financial Perspective all three European institutions - the Council, Parliament and the Commission - understood that we need reform if we want to bring ourselves up-to-date.
The report proposes more money for new areas of activity based on the Treaty of Lisbon.
Firstly, we must acknowledge the limitations of the Financial Perspective agreement adopted in 2006 by the Member States.
At the moment it would be an almost amazing feat to find EUR 5 billion in the Community budget to be used in the next two financial years in order to relaunch energy research, ensure energy interconnections or improve communications in the rural areas of the EU.
In our view, it is unacceptable to focus only on the forthcoming financial framework.
What we need now are rapid proposals and a sound mid-term review of the current long-term budget to bring rhetoric and resources closer to one another and to begin the process towards a more long-term sustainable approach to the EU budget prior to the next long-term budget period. (PL) Mr President, there are three points I would like to put to the Commission in this debate.
The European Commission needs to propose a system of support for the regions exceeding 75% of GDP per head in the current Financial Perspective, but which will require continued financing in view of the strong internal imbalances in development.
Our European Commission has announced its intention to present, at the latest in autumn 2009, its main guidelines for this revision, which has given rise to some remarkable work by our Committee on Budgets, under the leadership of Mr Böge.
However, before finishing I would like to make a point of saying that the real future of the Union depends on this revision, and I hope that the future Parliament makes use of the Böge report so that it is able to achieve our European ambition in the face of the national self-interests relayed daily via the prevarications of the Council.
rapporteur. - (FI) Mr President, I would like to thank all those who have provided feedback on my report.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking the Commissioner.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 25 March 2009.
Statistics show that if in the current Perspective we had maintained the budget at the level it was in the period 1993-1999 (calculated according to the same percentage of GDP), we would have an additional EUR 200 billion available for the realisation of European policies.
