Coup in Mauritania The next item is the debate on six motions for a resolution on the coup in Mauritania.
The second of these took place on 6 August 2008.
We call upon all political forces in Mauritania to put their people's interests first, and with common-sense maturity to work jointly on restoring the constitutional order in their country.
author. - (FI) Mr President, the coup by the military junta in Mauritania has been widely condemned, with good reason.
According to international observers in the country, the elections in 2006 and 2007 were conducted in accordance with the rules and there is no doubt as to the legitimacy of Mauritania's ousted government.
We were very proud of the results, because the great success was that after 24 years the military was handing over power to the people.
I believe that we have to trust in our parliamentary colleagues to propose a roadmap to this military junta, which we have rejected, and that it is really up to the representatives of the people, just as we are the representatives of our citizens, to decide what to do now.
author. - (PL) Mr President, anyone with an interest in Mauritania is aware of the current situation in that country.
The junta must commit to electoral neutrality as they did after the last coup in 2005.
The Commission must give serious consideration to the reactivation of Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, which could lead to the freezing of assets of members of the junta as well as the suspension of aid.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, Mauritania is a poor country.
However, this is a long-standing custom in the country.
It may also result in the death of many people and in the introduction of the inhuman methods of radical Islam into the country.
The coup that occurred in that country this summer must be condemned, which is what we are doing in this resolution.
The European Union should cooperate with the government of Mauritania and with the African Union in order to resolve the situation. (FI) Mr President, as we heard at the beginning of August, the first democratically elected President in Mauritania has been deposed and imprisoned along with the country's Prime Minister and Minister of Internal Affairs as a result of a military coup.
As the World Bank froze USD 175 million in financial assistance and as the EU is considering freezing EUR 156 million, there are several development projects in danger of being ditched.
A coup d'état in Africa and more precisely in Mauritania can come as no surprise.
Three years ago, on 3 August 2005, these same generals - at the time colonels - had carried out a similar take-over against the 20-year-old regime of Colonel Ould Taya, himself in power following a coup.
The recent take-over, nevertheless, is radically different from the one in 2005 that brought to an end a dictatorial regime and resulted in an exemplary transition to democracy strongly supported, politically and financially, by the European Union.
Therefore, on 2 September 2008, the Commission adopted a Communication to the Council on the opening of consultations with Mauritania under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
I think we should wait for the results of the Cotonou Article 96 consultations, and it would also be good, Ms Isler Béguin, to wait for a delegation to go there.
The Cotonou Article 96 consultations have to be started first.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) Unfortunately, the subject of the respect for human rights in African countries has been eternally present.
I could not say that the 18 years of democracy have led to the complete disappearance of the cases of infringement of human rights but the situation is much better than during the years of communism.
They actually annulled the 2007 democratic decision of the Mauritanian people, which had elected its first president in a democratic manner.
