EPAs have a difficult history in this Parliament.
I want to concentrate my remarks as rapporteur for the Cariforum EPA, which of course, at the moment, is the only full Economic Partnership Agreement.
I believe that, if the Commission and the Commissioner are able to give us certain assurances and certain interpretations of the text, we could be in a position this week to give our assent to the Cariforum EPA.
Lewis Carroll, the author, had one of his characters, Humpty Dumpty, say in a scornful tone: 'When I use a word, it means just what I choose it to mean, neither more nor less'.
Frankly, until recently, trying to understand some of the words in the Cariforum EPA has been a bit like that: trying to get clarity as to what the text actually means has not always been easy.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement with Côte d'Ivoire is one which we now have to vote to accept.
The final Agreement will not be negotiated for some time.
Please allow me therefore to name some of the most important points.
Firstly, the inclusion of a review clause, which is also flexible, so that it provides not for a five-year timeframe, but one which can be constantly re-assessed at relatively short notice.
The Côte d'Ivoire faces a particular problem owing to the fact that the agreement is currently being negotiated and will be signed in isolation, while the aim in the future is to negotiate a regional agreement.
Fourthly, it would be important that at any stage during new negotiations it is possible to raise issues that have yet to be addressed at the current stage and that these topics are approved by the Commission.
We are simply very concerned, and it is a concern that has been voiced by many non-governmental organisations, that especially in the case of the Côte d'Ivoire the Commission initially appeared to show relatively little flexibility and this was the reason why the aforementioned issues were not taken into account during the transition from the provisional to the full agreement.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Solana, in this debate we are not simply discussing a package of sixteen oral questions to the Council and the Commission, eight resolutions and two reports under the codecision procedure, but also 79 developing countries, with which the EU is renewing its trade relations and mutual cooperation.
Under this new agreement, unilateral trade preferences were to be replaced by WTO-compatible agreements, which aimed to reduce and, ultimately, eliminate poverty, as well as fostering sustainable development, regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance, helping ACP countries to develop their economic potential and gradually integrating them into the global economy.
In this case, there are, of course, many problems that are linked to the country of origin regulations.
I have now been chairman of the Committee for International Trade for two and a half years.
The collaboration was successful and I think we have achieved a great deal.
At this time of increased protectionism and with poverty spreading instead of decreasing, it is particularly important for us to keep trade open between Europe and some of the world's poorest countries.
Some people claim that these agreements go too far and are too comprehensive.
I acknowledge, first of all, that it contains a few flaws, such as the continued imposition of EU duties on rice and sugar for a transitional period, but it is, essentially, a very good agreement.
It is therefore important for us to ensure that it is signed as soon as possible.
Cooperation is in the interest both of the European Union and of these countries.
We have to finally let these countries be free mentally too, so that they will be able to take their future in their own hands and so that they can build wealth for themselves, just as other regions of the world have done over the course of the last few decades.
I am thinking, on the one hand, of trade between the European Union and these countries, but I am also mainly thinking of trade between these countries themselves, namely with other developing countries.
These states urgently need framework conditions that will allow people to create their own wealth.
During my discussions with representatives from these countries, I often had the impression that people were grateful that we, as the European Union, exert pressure in a number of areas, and that they were thankful that we make demands in many areas and force national governments to make a little progress in terms of economic policy.
In this regard, I hope that our negotiations will be fruitful.
Out of the eight countries in the region, I note that five are Least Developed Countries, that is, countries that, automatically and fully in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, have free access to the European market for exports without any requirements for trade concessions in return.
Therefore, if the Commissioner makes a commitment to promoting regional integration, if she makes a commitment to greater flexibility so as to take into account the different levels of development of our partners, perhaps she can tell us why she does not accept the offer of 71 % liberalisation proposed by Central Africa?
On this point, I want particularly to emphasise public procurement.
The fourth point, and this has already been mentioned, is that food security must be protected.
The last point is that we know that upgrading the economies of ACP States will require a huge financial commitment from the European Union both to protect infant industries from the negative effects of liberalisation and to develop the competitiveness of our partners' economies.
The whole debate that we are having this evening was not triggered by any decision of the European Commission or the European Union that we wanted a new trade relationship with the countries of the African, Caribbean and Pacific, but by a decision - a decade or more or so now - of the World Trade Organisation that we were unfairly discriminating in favour of some developing countries at the expense of others.
But even the biggest ones are actually comparatively small, and we need to take that into account in what requirements and demands we put on them.
These people are currently refugees in Seychelles, and I hope that we will consult with them between now and any final agreement being made as to what the impact might be on them and on their territory should they get the right to return.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin first by thanking Parliament for allowing me at this key moment to address this sitting with a matter as unquestionably sensitive as the Economic Partnership Agreements.
I would also like to express my appreciation for the very positive role which Parliament has played in the course of these negotiations through the political debates.
If asked how the crisis is affecting their economies, developing countries reply that it has brought a downturn in trade leading to lower economic growth, restrictions on output and higher levels of unemployment.
Through gradual regional integration they provide an opportunity for regional trade and the expansion of duty-free and quota-free access to our extensive market, enabling a higher volume of trade with the EU.
We all know that developing countries have seen a dramatic decline in investment since the beginning of the current crisis.
It will be proof for them that patience in negotiations brings results that are acceptable and beneficial to both sides.
It will also show that the ACP-EU partnership is capable of reacting to new challenges, whether of a legal, economic or political nature.
The EU must continue to support its partners, and this means not only the Cariforum region which has shown the way to others by signing the first comprehensive EPA, but also those countries and regions that have taken the first steps and must be encouraged to go further.
The overall political and economic context within which Parliament has been invited to approve the Cariforum EPAs and the interim EPA with Côte d'Ivoire is important, but Parliament has nevertheless asked the Council and the Commission for a number of concrete explanations.
I would like to begin by addressing some of the topics that have been mentioned.
The reviews will of course be supplementary to the routine monitoring of the fulfilment of these agreements, as set out in Article 5.
The second question that Parliament is interested in concerns the accompanying financial measures requested by the ACP regions and especially our undertakings to support trade.
Almost 50 % of this increased amount will be available for needs prioritised by the ACP countries themselves, including needs arising from the operation of the EPAs.
With regard to the advancing integration process in the Cariforum States it was natural that you should also draw attention to the compatibility of these agreements with other regional programmes, such as the Single Market and economic space of CARICOM.
Article 4 of the EPA clearly states that in its implementation it will take proper account of the integration processes in the Cariforum States, including the CARICOM single market and economic space.
During negotiations the Cariforum States have already ensured that all of the obligations arising from the EPAs would be fully compatible with the regional obligations adopted by the Caribbean states within the framework of their relevant regional integration programmes.
When several difficult questions remained unresolved in the negotiations we called on the Commission in May last year to exploit all of the flexibility and asymmetry compatible with WTO rules to take account of the varying needs and different levels of development of the ACP countries and regions.
I hope that my comments on these specific points have helped to clarify them and have provided assurance concerning some of the questions raised here in Parliament.
I firmly believe that the Commissioner, who has negotiated these matters directly with political representatives of the Cariforum States and other ACP regions together with her colleagues, will want to address a number of other points in greater detail.
The European Parliament's confirmation of the EPA with the Cariforum States will also bring hope and encouragement to other regions whose negotiations are at an advanced stage and who also need the sense of trust and strong partnership which these agreements can provide.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, it is a great pleasure to be addressing the plenary of Parliament on an issue, as David Martin described it, of fundamental importance to the European Union's relationship with the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) nations.
I want to pay tribute, and place on record that tribute, to the huge effort that the Committee on International Trade and the Committee on Development have put into the debate on this issue.
It is true, of course, that EPAs are different from the Lomé and Cotonou Conventions that embodied the Union's relations with the ACP for 30 years, but the unilateral preferences that characterise those conventions became open to challenge in the World Trade Organisation by other developing countries.
Trade has always been the defining factor of EU-ACP relations, and what was once confined to unilateral trade preferences for commodities and raw materials in the early days of Lomé has now been replaced by more diversified trade in manufactured goods, services and ideas in the 21st century.
By simplifying trade rules and replacing the complex maze of bilateral agreements with a small number of region-to-region trade relationships, the ACP can create bigger regional markets that are more attractive to the investment which developing markets need in order to create jobs and growth.
We will also take the time and provide the support to build up regional and national regulation as a prerequisite for further negotiation, and 'aid for trade' and technical assistance will be absolutely key in that regard.
This is a key aspect of the flexibility that you asked me to provide and of allowing EPAs to replace an all-ACP trade regime with one that matches regional solutions to regional needs without undermining ACP solidarity.
To return to where I began, Parliament has an historic opportunity today to give its assent to the first examples of a new generation of agreements that safeguard our special relationship with the ACP; agreements based on genuine partnership, not paternalism; that harness trade as the motor of development; that promote and encourage the regional integration that will help ACP countries flourish in a globalised world; that are flexible in terms of content, respectful of tradition, and are the latest manifestation of this long-standing trade relationship built on a respect for sovereign states.
We also said we are in a particularly difficult financial situation.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Development. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you, Commissioner Ashton, for your words, which we certainly should remember for a long time.
In order to ensure successful implementation of these agreements, it is vital for the parliaments to control the process by means of their parliamentary scrutiny.
In all of the resolutions before us concerning the Economic Partnership Agreements, there are paragraphs which address the issue of parliamentary control.
It ensures that the European Parliament's Committee on International Trade and the Committee on Development, as well as the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Committee are involved in the process.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Development. - Mr President, as rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Development on the Interim EPA with Côte d'Ivoire, I would like to thank our colleague Erika Mann for having taking into consideration some of the concerns raised in that committee, such as the urgent need for a democratically-elected government in Côte d'Ivoire and the necessity for that country to receive an appropriate share of EU trade-related assistance.
It is important that we bear in mind that this EPA is a stepping-stone agreement, which means that it is only a temporary solution.
Within this context, the Committee on Development proposes that Parliament give its assent, subject to ratification by the Côte d'Ivoire of the stepping-stone EPA.
We are on the eve of an important vote, an extremely important, almost historic vote because we are going to vote this week on the first Economic Partnership Agreements in this Parliament.
We have been talking about it for a number of years and these discussions have been the subject of many often very heated debates where agreement has not always been the order of the day, nor has consensus.
The accounts you have given, as well as those given by the Presidency, show that there has been very positive development on this issue, especially since your arrival, Commissioner, it has to be said.
The others are not there yet, we are at the stage of interim agreements while the fundamental approach has been regional integration.
Secondly, on the trade front, as you have pointed out, we have historic ties.
I am not going to repeat what Mr Arif has said but I join him in saying that we would like to have a statement from you, on behalf of the Commission, on a list of points that he has clearly set out, and I should like to finish by speaking about national parliaments.
I shall finish by saying to you quite simply, Commissioner, that we would like the national parliaments of the partner countries to have their say, since they represent the people of the South in this matter, and not only us.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I welcome this debate, which offers the opportunity to once again draw attention to the necessity of including and honouring child-labour provisions in all EU trade agreements.
Putting child-labour concerns at the core of all our trade agreements has to given priority. (The President cut off the speaker.) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DA) Mr President, this debate is important because we are, of course, about to take a long break in our work on account of the elections.
Of course, it is not up to us to decide whether our concern is justified when the governments of the Cariforum states are themselves in favour of these agreements, but it would be perfectly in order for the parliaments of the individual countries affected to be permitted to vote on the agreements before the European Parliament has given its approval.
This all comes into the EU via our own tax havens, for example Malta and Cyprus.
Facts are facts and these agreements have been negotiated primarily by the Directorate-General for Trade and within this Parliament the Committee on Development seems to me to have been somewhat sidelined.
As for regional integration, there too, there is a mismatch between the intended goals and the resources used.
We were able to work on this issue in Papua New Guinea during the Joint Parliamentary Assembly of the African, Caribbean and Pacific States, and of the European Union.
I want to join, Commissioner, in the congratulations that have been addressed to you on these Economic Partnership Agreements which have been negotiated with the aim of avoiding any disruption in trade between the ACP States and the European Community.
The resolution emphasises that the Economic Partnership Agreement must contribute to strengthening economic growth, regional integration, economic diversification and the alleviation of poverty.
It is important to remember that a genuine regional market represents an essential basis for successfully implementing the Interim Economic Partnership Agreement and that regional integration and cooperation are essential for the social and economic development of the Pacific States.
The new trading regime which will govern relations between the European Union and APC countries should ensure that all these countries are integrated into the international trading system, into the global economy, an economy which is going through an unprecedented crisis, a crisis which is affecting both developed and developing countries and emerging economies.
It is a country which has experienced a great deal of turmoil, uncertainty and instability over many years, and it is very important that we give assent, but also that we have assurances that you will indicate, in the form of a letter to the negotiators in Côte d'Ivoire and to the Côte d'Ivoire Government, that we remain committed to negotiating in good faith for a decent outcome for the people of that country. (FR) Mr President, Mr Kohout, Mrs Ashton, I have listened to what you have said.
We were in Guyana recently where the president said to us: you are asking us to diversify, but tell us what goods can our small country produce that can compete with Brazil or Venezuela?
Allow me to respond to two of the points that have been raised.
I believe that the situation would have been much worse without aid from the EU and other countries.
At the same time I think that the rules we have allow such a degree of flexibility that every one of these countries - and in this I have faith in the Commission and the Commissioner - should be capable of finding a solution which matches their needs and interests.
If agreement is reached between us and our partner-ministers from the ACP countries then this issue will also be on the discussion agenda for the joint meeting of the ACP and EU Council of Ministers in May.
Mr Guardans Cambó, Mr Hutchinson and Ms Hall, you all in different ways talked about the past and our need to do better.
I may not completely agree with the analysis, but I do agree that this is an opportunity to look forward, and part of that is about looking forward to the involvement not only of this Parliament but also of parliaments across the ACP.
Of course, it is up to individual nations how they involve their own parliaments.
I will be very interested to continue the dialogue with honourable Members about how we engage Parliament in that, but also your ideas on how we can make this monitoring and review really effective and make those countries that are working with us feel very positive in that direction.
Mr Sturdy and Mr Martin, 'most favoured nation' is, as has been said, designed to capture in a sense those large countries that have not supported the process we have been involved in.
Mr Van Hecke, Ms Mann and Mrs Kinnock: what one gets, the other gets.
Mr Kamall, too, echoed this theme that I think is very important, that we allow nations to develop and grow and allow them to do so by developing their economies and supporting them through development and trade linked together.
That would be of enormous importance to me and I hope you are able to do so tonight.
Based on the fact that what the Commission has said and what the Council has said are now on the record in this House, I would, as rapporteur, be delighted to recommend to the House that it should give assent to the Caribbean EPA.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner and the Council.
What you have agreed on today is to give to Côte d'Ivoire what Parliament has been requesting for quite a time and I think the country will be more than happy.
I know you cannot say 'yes' today, but please give us your assurance that you will try your best to secure those kinds of agreements.
I would also like to thank my colleague Syed Kamall because he also helped as much as he could regarding the resolution.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 25 March 2009.
