Forest fires in Greece, their consequences and conclusions to be drawn for prevention and preparedness measures (debate) The next item is the statement by the Commission on forest fires in Greece, their consequences and conclusions to be drawn for prevention and preparedness measures.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, I first wish to apologise for the absence of my colleague Stravros Dimas, who wished to take part in this debate but has been prevented from doing so due to a recent serious eye operation.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission wishes to express its deepest regret following the devastation caused by the forest fires in Greece.
In the areas most seriously affected, such as the Peloponnese and central and eastern Greece, regional economies were badly hit.
The European Union ought to give first priority to the possibility of mobilising additional capacity, and equip itself with extra fire-fighting facilities by approaching either non-EU countries or the private sector.
The Greek Government has estimated the damage at approximately EUR 4 billion, or around 2% of Greek GDP.
In relation to the support envisaged by the 2006 operational programmes concerned, as soon as a request for modification is made by the Greek authorities the Commission will examine it with maximum flexibility within the context of the existing regulatory provisions.
Any available credits will be diverted towards meeting the immediate needs of the people and regions affected by the crisis.
Even though the EU response in terms of civil protection was impressive, the Commission feels that it is time to enhance its capacity in this area.
This is an aspect it has been considering since 2006, and in fact President Barroso had already asked Michel Barnier to draw up a report on the matter.
It is encouraging to see that Parliament has always backed ambitious development of European capacity in terms of civil protection.
In 2006 the Commission proposed using Community funds from the Civil Protection Financial Instrument to provide extra civil protection facilities such as airborne fire-fighting units for large-scale fires.
That is point 9 of that day's resolution almost word for word.
On behalf of all Greeks, I should like to take this opportunity to thank the European Union, the Member States and other countries for immediately sending specially trained firemen and air support, thereby providing my country with vital assistance in fighting the catastrophic fires.
After the conclusion of an agreement between the Greek Government and the European Commission, affected farmers and stockbreeders (the latter, I hasten to add, having lost more than 73 000 head of cattle in the fires) are receiving advance payments to compensate for the loss of their crops, livestock capital and equipment.
I should also like to inform the Commissioner that what he has mentioned is already being done: a study and a draft reconstruction plan for all fire-stricken areas are already in progress.
The plan aims rapidly and effectively to cover the immediate human and economic needs of the victims, and also to repair the environmental damage as quickly as possible.
Secondly, a special rapid-response mechanism should be set up for major natural disasters; in fact some preliminary work has already been carried out in this area.
This support force could be located in high-risk countries and be ready for action from the summer of 2008.
I am sure that the EU will stand alongside my country and show in practice that solidarity is the basic principle governing relations between us.
The situation is critical.
That is why we are asking for resources to be made available directly from the Solidarity Fund, and if any money is left over in the Structural Funds or other budgets, this should be made available as quickly as possible too.
The governments of the European Union must therefore establish their own infrastructures in their own countries, based on their own local conditions and within their own jurisdiction.
The European Union must utilise the opportunities at its disposal in order to ensure effective coordination.
This must take place at local level.
I have one further comment: there will always be people in need - whether as a result of flooding or fire - unless we understand that it is not just about criminal elements.
Nonetheless, much of what we have experienced in recent years is a consequence of climate change, and we will have to become acclimatised to much more than what we are experiencing now.
I should like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the Greek people in particular, but also with those in other countries and regions, such as Sicily and southern Italy, who have suffered similar disasters.
These are a key priority, in my opinion, especially in view of climate change, and I hope we can all convince ourselves that this is a reality and not just a slogan.
In conclusion, all the indications are that the civil defence sector is one where the EU needs a capacity to act, because some disasters are on a scale too big for individual Member States to tackle.
In some cases the protection of our forests is weak.
My Green colleagues in Greece have also asked me - unfortunately we do not have any Green MEPs from Greece - to say that we want to stop amendments to Article 24 of the Greek constitution which weaken the protection of forests.
But right now we must help Greece and all the other countries affected - we will accept criticism and analysis when the disaster has been dealt with.
This summer, 75 people lost their lives.
About 300 000 hectares of forest were burnt down; we are facing a huge ecological and economic disaster.
An attempt is being made in Greece to reduce the level of forest protection by revising Article 24 of the Constitution.
It is a country of 2 million unauthorised buildings, many in forest areas; villas can easily be built on burnt land and later connected to electricity and water thanks to vote-winning amendments made by governments.
You must allocate more money from the Solidarity Fund and Rural Development Fund to Greece and to the other affected countries immediately and without unnecessary red tape.
Instead of helping the Americans with rapid-response forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, we should set up a European rapid-response force to deal with natural disasters.
He decided to take care of matters in Greece, where 63 citizens have died, 120 villages and small towns have been damaged and millions of trees have been burnt.
The families of the 63 Greek citizens who died need an answer; so do we, because we represent taxpayers. - (ES) Mr President, in recent years we have made a sad tradition of the September part-session in Strasbourg as a discussion of natural disasters.
I am sure that no one will exploit this debate now to meddle in the Greek election campaign because I am sure that we all agree there is nothing more despicable than attempting to extract political gain from human misfortune. (EL) Mr President, today we mourn 65 people who died in the flames of the uncontrolled fires in Greece.
We also have a responsibility to draw all the necessary conclusions from the problems involved in preventing and controlling these fires, so that Greece and other EU Member States never experience such a tragedy again.
We would like to thank Martin Schulz, who immediately visited our country and who, together with Giorgos Papandreou, took steps to communicate the situation and to secure European assistance.
Lastly, I totally agree that a rapid-response team should be set up, not to replace the responsibilities of national governments, but to assist them in coping with terrible disasters.
Yet Greece, as the report itself emphasises, had seen a spectacular improvement in the effectiveness of forest protection between 2001 and 2004.
The Greek tragedy of 2007 reminds us that there will always be fires, just as there will always be arsonists.
We should examine Greece's problems, not in order to condemn, but to prevent similar disasters in the future.
For the Europe of 2007, 65 deaths are unacceptable. (Applause) Mr President, the recent forest fires in Greece brought devastation to the communities affected.
Dozens of human lives were lost, hundreds of individuals were injured, thousands of animals were killed, whole villages were burned to the ground and thousands of acres of forests were annihilated.
Our condolences and sympathy go to the people of Greece.
For almost 10 days we watched in horror as the fires destroyed life, property and the environment in Greece, and our minds returned to similar catastrophes in Portugal, Italy, Spain and elsewhere in Europe in previous years.
It also has a duty to look critically at the reasons why these fires had such a catastrophic effect, to analyse what went wrong in terms of prevention and fire-fighting effectiveness and to draw conclusions that might guide us in the future.
They need our solidarity.
This situation now needs to change, including in Greece.
In the reconstruction effort, one priority must be to preserve and restore the natural landscape in order to make the affected regions habitable again and give the people there a new basis for life and thus a future.
The fires that claimed 75 of our fellow human beings and more than 250 000 hectares of forest, and caused enormous losses to thousands of ordinary households, are an unprecedented and heinous political, economic and ecological crime against the people of our country.
One of the key principles on which the European Union is founded is that of solidarity.
Amongst other things, the joint resolution proposes restructuring and new, flexible rules for the European Solidarity Fund, coordination of preventive action, and also effective help in combating natural disasters.
There is strong support for the establishment of a special European civil protection force to be mobilised in such situations, and always, of course, as a supplement to national action, in accordance with the Barnier proposal.
I should like to believe that a Community mechanism will be set up soon and that the Solidarity Fund will prove to be more effective in the management of disasters and disaster victims.
That is our fundamental principle, and we want to apply it in this instance too, and yes, in this way, we also want to fulfil our responsibility, which we owe to every one of our fellow countries in the European Union.
The Programme consists of providing assistance promptly, but it is also about providing training and organising information events so that people at local level are taught how to react and get help quickly.
We have been told time and again by the European Commission that there are countries which are not complying with the current legislation.
However, what is this reaction force about?
You were all well aware of the drama unfolding in Greece, where many lives were lost and huge areas of forest were burnt.
We must progress from words to actions so that this situation is not repeated every year, as is currently happening, with ever greater violence and increasing numbers of victims.
All these events lead us to believe that the risks are increasing due to climate change and global warming.
Various documents exist which suggest solutions - reference has already been made today to the Barnier report and other documents presented by Parliament and the Commission - not only to improve the effectiveness of the civil protection mechanism at European level, but also to improve resources at national level.
Various penalties must also be introduced, such as not allowing building in burnt areas for 10 or 15 years.
We must therefore increase coordination at European level and improve the mechanisms at national level.
I went to visit my birthplace, Messinia, which has been severely stricken by the worst forest fires in a century.
A total of 65 people died like martyrs, most of them struggling to save their homes and villages.
More than 250 000 hectares were burnt down.
I would like to thank the European Parliament and the Commission, which have accepted a set of important proposals from the Greek Government.
The Europe we are building signifies both solidarity and self-confidence.
Our stricken fellow human beings now need the solidarity and self-confidence that the European Union can offer them.
We are thus strengthening Europe itself, its cohesion and the faith of the European peoples in their own unity.
But let us not forget that this debate - and certainly the resolution we are adopting tomorrow - also addresses other natural disasters that have occurred over the summer period.
I draw attention in particular to the floods that affected many parts of England, including my own constituency of Yorkshire and the Humber.
I would urge the Commission and all those involved in processing the requests that have now been made for assistance from the European Union budget - and for the solidarity that our Union can display - to make sure that in all these cases those funds are mobilised as rapidly as possible without undue bureaucratic impediment.
The environmental disaster that the forest fires have inflicted on Greece, and the fires in other Mediterranean countries, are enough to convince me that this prediction will be realised if global warming and extreme weather phenomena continue.
I hope that the Commission will engage the most competent and specialised personnel on matters of forest protection and forest fire control in order to improve forest fire-fighting techniques.
The fact of the matter is that we are losing forests in a bid to save trees.
This new revised version is a more flexible and straightforward instrument for the provision of assistance: if it is not mobilised now under the Portuguese Presidency, in the wake of these recent disasters, when will it be mobilised?
The version of the Solidarity Fund adopted by the European Parliament in 2006 is a strong and flexible instrument which serves the interests of the EU, and its deployment will enable those living in eligible areas to benefit from effective assistance and support based on solidarity.
In light of recent events, however, I appeal to the Council - and the Portuguese Presidency in particular - to make this revised solidarity instrument's entry into force a priority. - (ES) Mr President, I wish to express solidarity with the Greek people after this summer's disaster and most especially my condolences to the families of those who have been lost.
I agree with my colleague Mr Galeote, and I am delighted with his rather tardy conversion, in that this kind of debate cannot be used to level attacks at a specific government.
As an institution held in honour of Zeus, the Games shone throughout the land in antiquity, and today their light reaches all parts of the globe.
The European Union was involved in providing human and material / operational assistance and I hope that the experience acquired will contribute to the future of European civil protection.
In 2005, Romania faced the most serious floods of the last 20 years and they affected all parts of the country.
As others have done, I also want to commend the work of the civil protection services and in particular the fire-fighters in tackling these disasters.
I especially want to welcome the statement made by Commissioner Dimas on 31 July in which he stressed the importance of the report by former Commissioner Barnier and its implementation so that Europe can be properly equipped with a civil protection mechanism capable of providing the response that has been lacking.
We have had amongst the wettest months of June and July on record, in my country.
Sixty-three people dead, others disappeared, villages destroyed, 200 000 hectares burned, as my colleagues have already mentioned, tens of thousands of heads of cattle burned, with all the consequences this entails for the national economy, and local economies in particular, as yet unassessed: this is the sad result of the forest fires that have ravaged Greece since the end of August.
The European Union, as usual, will be taking out its chequebook to assist with the rebuilding work and, as usual, it is using a tragic situation to propose an extension of its powers by creating a permanent European civil protection body.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, a debate concerning such an important subject is bound to touch on other topics that are directly or indirectly related.
Allow me to make a few general comments on European solidarity, on the Solidarity Fund and on some events that may provide lessons for the future.
In 2002 I had the experience of leading a country that was struck by terrible floods, together with the Federal Republic of Germany and Austria.
That aid was significant and it was very much appreciated in our country.
There has been little mention of the fact that Bulgaria did not receive any assistance.
In any case, all of the Commission bodies will make every effort to ensure that the aid is implemented as quickly and as effectively as possible.
We should consider the Solidarity Fund, which since its establishment has already been mobilised in at least 20 or 30 cases.
It has intervened or helped in cases of devastating hurricanes, such as Hurricanes Gudrun and Kyril.
It will now be used to provide assistance in relation to these devastating forest fires.
Ladies and gentlemen, in our present debate we have touched upon the problems of climate change, prevention, flood prevention, the environmental protection strategy, urban planning and development, and many others.
That is why it is so important to look for answers at a European level, which is, after all, what we are doing here.
The debate is closed.
Specifically, this means that if Greece does not complete its land register by 31 August 2008, not only will the penalties accumulated - which run into millions - finally be due; other payments must be considered as well.
in writing - Whilst I appreciate the scale of devastation caused by the Greek forests fires and regret the lives lost within this incident, I must stress that this is indeed a resolution on natural disasters.
Therefore I am disappointed that the Commissioner has not made any reference to the floods which occurred in the UK.
In Worcestershire over 5 000 homes and business were affected and more than 2 000 people were temporarily displaced.
The impact on infrastructure has been significant, with many roads waterlogged for weeks afterwards and some that have totally disappeared.
in writing. - (HU) The natural disasters in the summer.
In Hungary a significant proportion of the maize crop was destroyed due to drought, and more than 400 hectares fell victim to flames in forest fires even though our fire-fighters bravely stood their ground in Hungary - and in Greece too.
I hope that the Union will make changes to this practice and aid will once again be processed quickly.
The summer of 2007 was marred by massive forest fires and severe flooding, resulting in substantial material and environmental damage.
Everyone remembers the flood disasters in Central Europe in 1999, 2001 and 2005 and the devastation they caused in Austria and its neighbouring countries.
The time has now come to make this fund as flexible as possible and to mobilise it without delay.
The development of a crisis reaction mechanism will also facilitate a rapid response in larger-scale emergency situations.
in writing. - (FR) I support the view expressed in the motion for a resolution and I also wish to express my solidarity with the Greek people affected by this disaster.
The EU ought to provide consequent aid to Greece as soon as possible, and seriously improve its capacities and means in terms of civil protection and emergency action.
Cyclone Dean, with winds blowing at over 200 km/h, was one of the most violent hurricanes to hit the Antilles Arc in more than 20 years: it caused extensive damage to the agricultural sector and to the electricity and telecommunications networks in Martinique and Guadeloupe, two of the EU's ultraperipheral regions.
