Thank you very much Mrs González Álvarez.
The spectacular turnround by this Member State, which succeeded in meeting the Maastricht criteria, is a typical example of the general climate of monetary and budgetary stability which has prevailed in Europe thanks to everyone' s efforts to support the single currency.
In the current situation, characterised by the menace of a serious recession in the US economy, as well as the persistent need to raise the rate of growth in Europe, debt repayment as well as tax reductions seem to us of lesser importance than financing public investment, naturally in balanced budgets, not deficits, both for supporting flagging growth and for pushing forward those structural changes necessary for the transition to a modern, technologically pioneering, full employment economy in Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking Mr Katiforis for his report.
Because our first objective in introducing the European currency - and this is particularly true of my Group - was a stable currency for Europe.
Which is why we also need to call for the consolidation efforts which have started - and which are impressive in some countries but insufficient in others - to continue.
I have to say that my own country, Germany, gives me cause for concern, because our rate of growth is below the average in the euro zone.
Mr President, my Group backs the rapporteur, who has clearly illustrated that the convergence and stability programmes are extremely valuable when it comes to forging real economic policy in the European Union in general and the euro zone in particular which is a matter of common interest.
If these public-sector investments are used for the benefit of information technologies, other new technologies and a better, modernised infrastructure in the euro zone and the European Union, then this is the right way forward.
From this point of view it is also very important that we restart the debate on the quality of public finances.
Mr von Wogau, you referred to possible dangers.
Any analysis of public finances, however, must also consider what impact expenditure may have on monetary policy.
We must also consider how this sort of economic policy coordination can be used to guarantee social and employment policy as well as monetary stability.
As has been said in the course of the debate, there is a matter of serious concern about the future pension liabilities of all the Member States.
The Union' s economic policy stands out for its passivity and its dogmatism.
In his explanatory statement and as he has repeated this morning, Mr Katiforis insists on the fact that public investment must take precedence over the concern to reduce public debt.
The risk of price increases upon the introduction of the euro is another reason for the European Central Bank to maintain interest at its current level.
We now have a choice of several measures designed mainly to bring about higher rates of economic growth in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may I start by pointing out once again that there is a connection between the 1 January 2002, when notes and coins will make the euro a tangible reality for all our citizens, the Maastricht criteria and the Stability and Growth Pact.
The Stability and Growth Pact is therefore a question of responsibility for the future.
It is also an important framework to guard against political misconduct in day-to-day politics and it is also an important framework for a proactive financial, budgetary and economic policy debate in our Member States.
Since the euro, since the Stability and Growth Pact, budgetary policy is talked about far more openly, the deficit is talked about far more openly, the connection between budgetary, financial, economic and structural policy is talked about far more openly and the necessary reforms are being implemented proactively in order to achieve a different objective.
Mr President, I want first of all to welcome Giorgos Katiforis' s report.
I would particularly welcome the proposal for a special pension fund by Member States.
For the first time ever an EU state was criticised unanimously, indeed reprimanded, by Ecofin.
Mr von Wogau and Mr Karas have already spoken about the stability of the euro and agreed how important the steady hand of the ECB - and Wim Duisenberg - was; the euro has remained stable, all the political demands of the various camps notwithstanding.
Our Member States should make use, in their economic and social policy, of benchmarking procedures and exchanges of best practices.
No country in the EU will get on without budgetary discipline, without permanently reducing debts or without substantial structural reforms and the aims - competitiveness and stability - are well worth it.
Mr President, the European Institutions have made budgetary balance a priority, but this phrase, like all the calls for budgetary prudence, serves to conceal the fact that what we are reducing is budgetary expenditure intended for public services and social protection.
When, for example, it dares to express satisfaction with the fact that unemployment has fallen from 9.6% to 8%, this represents around 15 million men and women forced into poverty in a region which happens to be one of the wealthiest in the world.
We shall, of course, be voting against this report.
The British Conservatives, like other centre-right parties across the European Union, are committed to properly-funded and high-quality public services and, if elected in June, to a massive increase in public spending of around GBP 62 billion on essential services like schools and hospitals.
We therefore welcome paragraph 6 but we have reservations about the rest of the report, in particular paragraph 4, because we cannot agree that the 'golden rule' is a good example for Europe to follow.
It is merely one of the many ways in which Gordon Brown succeeds in fiddling the figures.
The pact applies to all EU Member States but the legal penalties are only applicable to those states in the euro zone: that is at the heart of our reservations about this report.
Within the euro zone it is not surprising that constraints have been imposed on public spending decisions because if you have, to all intents and purposes, a joint bank account you are affected by the spending decisions of others and you can expect to want some control over those spending decisions.
Paragraph 10 of the motion for a resolution refers to improved harmonisation of the timetable for presentation of Member States' programmes.
We have just brought out the latest ones, for the spring.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
The debate is closed.
I was pleased that the final report reflected all those contributions and was adopted unanimously by the committee.
This report sends a strong political signal to the Commission and Council that this Parliament wants this crucial area - the evolution of the Next Generation of Internet and electronic communication - to be reflected in the crucial decisions on research support that are about to made in the context of the Framework Six Programme.
First I think the strategic importance of electronic communications and the Internet are increasingly well understood by everyone in this House.
This report argues that there is a strong case for supporting pre-competitive work in the next stages of the evolution of this technology and that pre-competitive work will underlie the future competitiveness of all the industries and service providers who are engaged in this crucial business, and governments as well.
One of the core areas proposed in this report is to ensure that we use the research network that the Commission is already funding - the Géant network - to use that effectively by supporting projects that will exploit that very high carrying-capacity research network in anticipation of the whole infrastructure evolution that in future will be driven by the market place.
This is a contribution to the debate on research policy in Framework Six Programme and our vote today will enable that to move at exactly the right time into the ongoing strategic discussion process.
This situation puts Europe at a disadvantage compared to the United States, where three to four times more risk capital is being invested in digital content and in Internet-related activities.
The public sector should play a more significant role in improving the situation by combining supply and demand in the European Union.
That is why I am asking the Commissioner why the topic "citizens and governance in the European knowledge-based society" , for which EUR 225 million has been earmarked in the sixth Framework Programme, does not fall within the same category as "technologies in the information society" .
Mr President, I fully support legislation to upgrade the quality and standard of telecommunication infrastructures within the European Union.
However, any changes to our telecommunication infrastructures must be fair and balanced.
New technology can contribute enormously to the implementation of effective rural development policy, and it will be a key factor in the creation of vital new employment in rural areas and in addressing the problem of the urban/rural imbalance which is a priority issue for this Parliament.
Secondly, legislation on safety and content is insufficiently highlighted.
Mr President, first can I congratulate Malcolm Harbour, the rapporteur, on his own-initiative report on the Next Generation Internet: the need for an EU research initiative.
The degree of support for the report is indicated both by the fact that it was adopted unanimously in committee, and by the fact that there are no amendments.
We want to make sure that EU research initiatives complement market-driven research, thereby avoiding conflict or duplication.
There are, however, at least four areas that are in need of clarification: first, in paragraph 2, we talk about the need for pre-competitive research.
The admirable report by Malcolm Harbour invites us to look at our research initiative and we particularly welcome and support that aspect.
The kind of research needed here will include scientific research - research in physics, research in IT - but will also include socio-economic and legal research because of the points covered, particularly in paragraph 13, where we are dealing with these vital issues of privacy and data protection.
The Commission very much appreciates the continued interest which the European Parliament and its Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has expressed in the development and establishment of an information society in Europe.
It is equally important for new policy measures to be taken as required in order to cope with the rapidly evolving development of the Internet world.
Secondly, significant success towards the deployment of new electronic infrastructures has been achieved through the Géant project, a pan-European network covering both EU and associated countries.
The aim is to provide highly advanced connectivity and services in Europe's national research and education networks at a level that allows them to play a leading role in cutting-edge research allowing the Géant to involve from 2.5 gigabits to 10 gigabits per second and thereafter to 100 gigabits per second in the coming years.
Fourthly, playing a central role in global cooperation with similar regional activities world-wide, for example the Internet II initiative in the United States, CANET4 in Canada and so on, Géant will provide the multiplier effect from which major infrastructural projects benefit.
It will directly support the research needed to allow development of new technologies in areas such as photonics, advanced software and hardware, and interfaces etc.
The security issues will also be tackled in the upcoming communication on security of electronic networks that should be presented in time for the Gothenburg European Council.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.00 a.m.
In yesterday's Financial Times, Arthur Levitt, a former Chairman of the US Securities and Exchange Commission wrote "Investors, public companies, accounting firms, stock markets and regulators around the world today face one of the great challenges for the global financial system's future: how to fashion an enduring system of comparable, uniform and high-quality financial reporting that is accepted just as much in Europe as it is in the US, and in developed countries as in emerging ones.
It is intended as a first step towards establishing an accounting regime across Europe which meets the requirement of a modern global market place and which, in particular, will provide those who read company accounts with the kind of information they will want and should be entitled to know.
I now give the floor to Commissioner Bolkestein.
This is what accounting in the European Union should not become.
The fair-value concept, introduced in IAS, constitutes such conflicts and the proposal takes that conflict away by introducing fair value into the accounting directives.
Secondly, the proposal also lays down rules for Member States to define the scope of companies that shall be permitted or can be required to use fair value.
Thirdly, the proposal also requires that all companies disclose information on derivative financial instruments - options, swaps, futures - in the notes on the accounts which may have a significant impact on the financial position.
However, small companies can be excluded from this disclosure.
The Commission supports this amendment from the point of view of a single EU market.
The Commission carefully examines the amendments to its proposal and, in this instance, supports all proposed Amendments Nos 1 to 32.
The debate is closed.
This is the same Local Education Authority that, until last week, was failing to provide any education or school places to 20 children in the same area.
Will the President please write to the British Government to clarify how this sits with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, especially Article 14(3), the right to education, which I believe specifically covers Lucy Payne's case and the concerns of many other parents across Northamptonshire.
Mr Gawronski, we shall indeed investigate the content of that meeting.
Amendment 1 would allow BSE-free Member States to act unilaterally against imports of live animals.
Amendment 2 would make it more difficult to establish a clear epidemiological picture of the incidence of BSE in contradiction to Parliament's resolution of last November.
on the Initiative by the government of the French Republic with a view to adopting a Council Decision on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting [5551/2001 - C5­0054/2001 - 2001/0804(CNS)] 2.
on the Council position on a draft Council Regulation laying down measures necessary for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting [6281/2001 - C5­0084/2001 - 2001/0208(CNS)] 3.
These are the very animals the CAP has been ignoring for 40 years, and which we must now promote in order to protect the health of the people of Europe.
In our assessment of the compromise, we attached particular importance to the principles that, as a starting point, all documents should be included, including internal documents, that the number of exceptions should be reduced, and that these should be well-founded, that requests should be dealt with more quickly than was originally proposed and that it should be established that Danish authorities will continue to deal with requests for access to documents in accordance with Danish rules.
The institutions concerned would actually retain the right to class as 'confidential' documents in fields as diverse as "defence and military matters, international relations, economic, financial or monetary policy and public security" as well as "documents concerning court proceedings, inspections, investigations or financial audits" .
There would appear to be even less public access to the documents of the European institutions than is permitted in some Member States.
In this field, as in many others, the least we should do is to narrow the gap between the least anti-democratic practices and those which are most transparent.
We are in favour of the full publication of every document, every agreement and every treaty, as well as parts of all the speeches that are today made behind closed doors, of all the dealings kept secret and all the lobbying, which have led Parliament, the Council or the European Commission to take a decision or issue a directive.
The rules concerning which documents can be excluded from public access are so unclear that it will not be difficult to keep secret almost any document at all.
In other words, the Swedes have helped legitimise the Regulation rather than defending citizens' interests, and today the European Parliament has followed suit.
Moreover, the new rules are clearly better than the lawless situation in respect of public access to documents that currently prevails.
These rules are in total conflict with the Swedish principle of public access to official records that has characterised Swedish government for over 250 years.
Hopefully the new Regulation on citizens' access to documents is an important step on the way towards even clearer rules capable of forming a basis for a modernised administration in which openness and access are a matter of course.
Finally, there is the question of the financial implications for pet owners of the proposal for a regulation: tattooing carried out by a vet costs around FRF 150 whereas fitting a microchip will cost between FRF 400 and FRF 500 francs.
This proposal would require the standardisation of transponders (Standard ISO 11784) and of reading equipment for the microchips (Standard ISO 11785).
For all of these reasons, we oppose the text.
Swoboda report (A5-0132/2001) Mr President, you are also aware that I am the National Secretary of the Pensioners' Party, which elected me to this Parliament from Italy.
Europe should, in the current situation, bring all its political and economic weight to bear, particularly on ensuring that the various key players take part in a genuine round of negotiations.
The Albanian language should be recognised as an official language of Macedonia, from primary school to university and also in the public services.
Granting financial aid now and promising the country EU membership could lull that government into thinking that it need not solve that problem, and that it can ignore the anger of a large section of the population.
Cederschiöld report (A5-0120/2001) Mr President, I am sure that I will always remember you for your kindness.
At the moment, they are giving the public neither a financial guarantee against the risk of counterfeit euros, nor financial aid for adaptation measures, as if this were a straightforward operation of replacing one set of notes with another.
This is why the forthcoming months will be vital for Europe, first of all with the introduction of the euro on 1 January 2002, the first new Members to join the Union on 1 January 2003, the European elections in June 2004 and lastly, the 'definitive' reform of our institutions by the end of 2004.
If our recommendation had been accepted for the euro to be chosen, not as the single currency, but as a common currency with precedence over national currencies for certain uses likely to develop in line with the real needs of society, as a complementary currency and not as a substitute currency, we would not be facing this enormous problem of counterfeiting today.
The euro currency does run a particular risk of being counterfeited at the time when it is introduced into circulation and during the period when it will circulate alongside national notes and coins.
The arrangements for protecting the euro against counterfeiting must involve all EU Member States, EU institutions and all relevant international organisations.
EU leaders were correct in Nice last December when they stated that an effective system to protect the euro against counterfeiting must be adopted as soon as possible this year.
The first of these concerns technical information such as data collection, manufacturing methods and the technical features of counterfeits.
The co-ordination of this information will be the responsibility of the counterfeiting analysis centre which has been set up under the auspices of the European Central Bank.
We cannot and must not support the creation of a drugs culture in our society by legally permitting the use of soft and synthetic drugs.
We cannot and must not support the creation of a drugs culture in our society by legally permitting the use of soft and synthetic drugs.
Nuclear safety The resolution tabled in the European Parliament on nuclear safety fifteen years after Chernobyl highlights the gravity of this major accident and its consequences for health and the environment.
Mr President, the Christian Social Union supported the Katiforis report in the final vote.
The report calls for harmony between the social partners and the further development of flexible types of work to allow "structural reform to continue speedily [with the] structural changes intended to increase flexibility and competitiveness in all factor, product and labour markets".
The Katiforis report confirms that the European Parliament supports the application of stability and convergence programmes, the coordination of anti-grass roots measures between Member States and Community guidance and supervision.
Instead of encouraging a change of direction in the economic guidelines we follow, however, the downward revision of the economic growth rate and the slowdown of the world economy are calling for more of the same: to pursue and step up fiscal prudence, especially the reduction of public expenditure and wage moderation as a means of guaranteeing the objective of price stability, to which the European Union is, unacceptably, continuing to subordinate all its economic guidelines and social policies.
He is right to say that EU and Member State resources should focus on pre-competitive projects, with the objective of ensuring a powerful EU presence in theglobal development of next generation Internet and new communications infrastructures reinforcing the EU's role in Internet governance.
In this context, I would point out that our Parliament voted, in the part-session of March 2001, for the Carraro report, which focused on the place that the Member States and the European Union should occupy within ICANN [the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers] - a private, non-profit company that has produced several key Internet systems - and which recommends opening up this system to developing countries.
With regard to the rapid creation of a super fast trans-European research network with a capacity of 100 gigabytes per second, this is, of course, an essential prerequisite to achieving an economy that is competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based, as defined in Lisbon.
Those who are concerned, for example, with mountain regions know that some technologies lend themselves better to use in isolated areas, where technologies such as cable are difficult, and that the new technologies are absolutely crucial to avoid marginalisation in places where it would be even more serious than elsewhere.
