Pierre Pflimlin was a true statesman.
Pierre Pflimlin belonged to that historic generation of Europeans who, since the end of the war, as a member of parliament, a minister and a political activist, was at the forefront of all the efforts to build a strong and reunited Europe.
He was elected First Vice-President in 1982 and was President from 1984 to 1987.
For Pierre Pflimlin was also a man of dialogue.
Pierre Pflimlin left the European Parliament in 1989, but for many Europeans, especially young people, he remained an authoritative voice, someone who could generate enthusiasm for the political objective of building Europe.
It was under Pierre Pflimlin' s presidency, in 1986, that the European flag and anthem were adopted as symbols of the European Union.
I shall therefore ask you to please agree to rise while we play the European anthem in memory of President Pflimlin. (The House rose and the European anthem was played) Statement by the President Several days ago, ladies and gentlemen, 58 illegal immigrants tragically died in a lorry at the British border.
This was on 18 June.
Every one of us was, I am sure, outraged at this tragedy, and I am sure that we are all agreed that the European Union should step up its fight against this sort of modern-day slavery.
The Treaty of Amsterdam has been in force for one year and the European Council at Tampere was held six months ago.
I would like to give you this opportunity to let us know what you understood the protocol of that meeting to be, and perhaps also to clarify what you said to the press afterwards.
I can, however, tell you that the euro was the focus of all my discussions with the authorities I met, and that they all showed great interest in this question.
Thank you, Mr Tajani.
In connection with these events, I would like to give you advance notice of our proposal, which we will expand in detail later on, to include a point referring to the said incidents in the topical and urgent questions on hooliganism.
I therefore call upon the Members to support this point when we vote on the topical and urgent subjects, for this will allow Parliament to express an opinion as it has a duty to do.
I was in Rotterdam myself, in the spirit of complete impartiality necessitated by my position as President of the European Parliament, and I can confirm that the atmosphere was indeed as you describe.
Thank you, Mr Blak.
Agenda The next item is the examination of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, three months ago there was a coup in Fiji.
In my view this contravenes Rule 50 and Annex III of our Rules of Procedure.
I have had representations to the effect that people are looking to the European Union for some kind of effective action, possibly - and this could be debated in the context of the resolution - some kind of sanctions under the Lomé Convention.
I do not want to debate the content now but I do want to ask that this be maintained on the agenda, because after what has happened over the weekend, there is still a risk of considerable discrimination against one ethnic group in Fiji.
I now come to another request from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, this time to remove the following item, "Tibet" .
In 1992 I personally produced a report on Tibet.
On 15 April here in this House we unanimously adopted a resolution on Tibet, and now we are repeating what we said on 15 April, perhaps with one or two minor additions.
Madam President, Tibet is an issue which is on our agenda year after year after year, and to that extent I understand the point that the honourable Member has made.
It is an urgent issue because in recent months we have seen various measures being taken by the Chinese government to move people into the area of Tibet and to exploit the natural resources there.
It is urgent that we put pressure on them to withdraw support for these measures so that this Parliament can stand up for the people of Tibet, stand up for democracy, stand up for the stopping of what is an illegal act in international law. (Parliament rejected the request) President.
Still on the subject of topical and urgent debate, regarding the "Human rights" section, I have received three requests to replace the sub-item on "Hooliganism" : a request from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to replace this item with a new sub-item entitled "Outbreaks of racism in Germany and the killing of Alberto Adriano" , a request from the Group of the Party of European Socialists to replace this sub-item by one entitled "Incidents at the Rotterdam football stadium" , and a request from the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party to replace this sub-item by one entitled "Desecration of Prague' s oldest Jewish cemetery" .
That is the background to this motion; the idea is that we state clearly that Europe has a vocation to be a multicultural Europe and that Europe supports all democratic forces battling against racism and neo-Nazism.
It is with this in mind that I ask you to support our request. (Parliament rejected the request from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance) President.
Madame Napoletano, I do not think that I need to put this proposal to the vote.
Our group feels that it must be made clear to candidate countries such as the Czech Republic that the European Union insists on respect being shown for fundamental rights such as freedom of worship and philosophy of life.
The Member State which has responsibility for that question is the United Kingdom.
But it is very important in this matter to draw a distinction between Britain - as the state which has overall responsibility - and one of its parts, namely England.
I have received a request from the Group of the Party of European Socialists to remove the sub-item on Iraq.
This also applies here, to Iraq.
I think that this would be wrong and irresponsible of Parliament, and that is why we are asking for this item to be withdrawn. (Parliament rejected the request) President.
We now have a request to replace the item on Venezuela with a new item entitled "Colombia and the international conference of donor countries in Madrid" .
Madam President, there is to be an international conference on 7 July on the "Colombia Plan" which is to bring donor countries together, in the context of the aid plan for that country, also known as the "Marshall Plan" .
In any event, we think it important that the European Parliament should express its opinion on the subject in the few days before this conference.
Madam President, I do not wish to speak against the proposal because I am in complete agreement with what my friend and fellow Member, Paul Lannoye, has just said.
I do, however, deplore the fact that this proposal is set to replace a resolution on Venezuela which is the follow up to a visit to that country by an official delegation from the European Parliament following the serious floods which devastated that country, especially as we have not had an opportunity to discuss the matter since then.
Obviously, the Czech Republic still has more time to implement the acquis communautaire in full, but people might well have doubts about whether the Czech Republic is willing even now to start taking on board these aspects of European policy which are of fundamental importance for its citizens and for environment policy.
I think that the European Parliament also ought to speak out on this.
This absurd debate demonstrates that a Provan report on urgent procedures would be welcome, because the Prime Minister of Portugal has been waiting an hour for us to finish.
I do not understand how a political group in this House can table two motions to replace a point on the agenda.
Mr Barón Crespo, this is perfectly permissible under the Rules of Procedure.
That is why we should like to add this item.
The matter is potentially a very serious one, involving perhaps a breach of Article 10 of the Treaties, and I believe it requires more serious consideration than can be given to a topical and urgent motion on a Thursday afternoon.
But a topical and urgent motion would shed more heat than light on the matter, and seems to me to be an inappropriate vehicle.
Therefore I would appeal to Members to vote against this request. (Parliament gave its assent) The other two requests therefore lapse, and there are no further requests for amendments to the agenda. (The order of business was adopted thus amended) European Council/Portuguese presidency The next item is the joint debate on the European Council report and the Commission statement on the European Council meeting at Feira and the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council regarding the Portuguese Presidency.
Now that these six months are over, I think that we can say quite simply that we have fulfilled our duty.
The second part of our strategy was to strengthen political union in Europe, on the basis of our universal values and by cementing Europe' s role as the leading architect of a new design for international relations, one that is more multipolar, more balanced and more equitable.
I think that I can say that these objectives have been fully achieved.
These four elements of the strategy have already produced tangible results.
This coordination is also being supported by a strong desire for political leadership at the highest level with regard to economic and social reforms.
No political federal power can forego a strong federal budget and strong federal competences. (Applause) Therefore, a vague, abstract discussion at institutional level, which does not fully weigh up the financial and tax-related consequences of this federal model, is, in our opinion, a meaningless discussion.
The work on enlargement has moved at a great pace over these six months.
Even where the countries of the Helsinki Group are concerned, a significant number of dossiers have already been opened and many others have been closed.
At this point, I must stress the extremely important and dynamic role played by the Commission in speeding up the pace of these negotiations.
We also know, however, that we, the European Union, have not been balkanised and we are now acting in an integrated way.
I would also like to thank Parliament for its efforts in solving the problem of financial support for Montenegro, which we felt was essential, in order to send a very clear message to all those who are trying to establish democracy in that area.
I am sure that we all agreed with everything you said about his role as one of the architects of Europe and of democratic accountability in Europe.
Before saying a few words myself about the recent European Council in Feira which I attended with President Prodi, who is not with us this afternoon because he is attending a meeting in Paris with the new presidency, I would like, on behalf of all my colleagues in the Commission, to pay tribute to the hard work, skill and energy that the Portuguese government has devoted over the last six months to the presidency of the Council.
This ensured the success not only of the Lisbon and Feira summits, but of the day-to-day work behind the scenes that is vital in carrying Europe towards its ambitious goals.
I would just like to add that it was a great pleasure working with the team of Portuguese ministers, as well as an extremely rewarding experience.
The European Council on 19 and 20 June was a very valuable meeting of important consolidation.
The Council gave, as the Prime Minister said, renewed encouragement to the work that has already been begun, particularly on the e-Europe action plan, research and enterprise policy and the extremely important subject of social inclusion.
Fourth, the Council welcomed the broad economic guidelines for 2000 and recommended their adoption by the Council.
During the Feira meeting we were shocked, as you said Madam President, by the news of the tragic death of 58 illegal immigrants hidden in a truck in Dover.
The tragedy at Dover underlines Europe's urgent need for a common immigration and asylum policy; a point that I notice much of the media -including in the country I know best - has been making.
The Commission will be putting forward proposals on these matters before the end of the year.
Trafficking in human beings is a serious international crime that no one government can tackle single-handedly.
Our citizens expect no less than that, and we must live up to their expectations.
The Commission has been working energetically in this area.
This complex agreement involves the directive on the taxation of savings.
The directive should be adopted by unanimity no later than 31 December 2002.
We took stock of the European Union's relations with Russia and the situation there, including in Chechnya, in the light of the recent EU-Russia Summit, which I think was regarded as fairly successful.
On Chechnya, there have, it is true, been some recent moderately positive developments in response to international and European Union pressure: for example the recent ECHO mission was able to take place and western humanitarian agencies have greater access to the area.
The Mediterranean Strategy is global, covering all countries in the region and including the consolidation of peace in the Middle East.
At Feira, Javier Solana and I presented a follow-up report outlining what had been achieved in the western Balkans since Lisbon.
I was in Kosovo again last week for what was my fourth visit and I also visited the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on Friday.
I just want to add a couple of points.
I hope that we can also expect strong support for the proposals that we have put forward for asymmetric autonomous trade measures for the region.
Before I conclude, I would like to say something briefly about the EU-India Summit.
We have sometimes, in the Union, underestimated the importance of India and underestimated the importance of developing our economic and political relationship with it.
It is a democracy which shares many of our values and had a tradition of political tolerance when we still believed in the divine right of kings.
To conclude, the Feira Council crowned an extremely successful Portuguese presidency.
The Prime Minister mentioned some of the constitutional discussions that we have started to have in the European Union.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to echo our President' s tribute to President Pfimlin, who, as well as being a predecessor of mine and a great friend, was the person who welcomed the Spanish and Portuguese MEPs when we arrived in this House, precisely because we had built a community of values in our countries of the type we are now trying to strengthen.
I believe that this is an essential point because the Prime Minister of Portugal, over recent months, has indicated that he is firmly committed to defending these common values.
I would like to return this compliment because, during my years of experience in this House, I had never known a Prime Minister to appear three times during a Presidency, but he has done just that.
In relation to the Lisbon Summit I would like to highlight the importance which my group attaches to the triangle of employment, social cohesion and competitiveness, which is absolutely essential to us, and which is already part, not only of the Portuguese Presidency' s plans, but also of our policies, and which has been strengthened in Feira.
If we are to progress in a serious and socially just way, it is very important that we take the step of dealing with all these incomes jointly, and, furthermore, I believe that this is a good first step in relation to the process of globalisation.
I would like to point out firstly that, in relation to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, although it has still not been included, an important step has been made in that direction.
I agree with the challenge set by President Guterres when he said that we have to talk about federalism in all areas.
Madam President, I would like to make a final observation in relation to an important decision taken by the Portuguese Presidency bilaterally with thirteen governments.
I must say that the European Parliament and the Commission have been on the same wavelength since February and the Portuguese Presidency cannot be criticised for defending our community of values in the face of a decision of a political party to form a government with another party whose ideology and beliefs are absolutely contrary to our common values.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Liberal Group, I would like to join in the moving tributes to President Pflimlin, and am only too pleased to extend warm congratulations to Portugal on its presidency.
As far as external relations are concerned, the Liberal Group welcomes the idea of a summit between the European Union and the most democratically advanced countries in the western Balkans.
As far as the results of the Feira summit are concerned, however, we are rather more sceptical.
The real initiatives - highlighted by Parliament in all of its resolutions for years - are in some cases not even being discussed in the preparations for the Intergovernmental Conference.
It is therefore not surprising that this virtual agreement should have been particularly warmly welcomed by those who have never been keen on a greater balance between legislation on capital and labour and who have always opposed mounting any joint action against these tax havens for tax evasion, fraud or the movement of large sums of money.
The presidency can and must be divided between Member States, since this is symbolic of the fact that we share a common path.
In the European Parliament alone, 406 Members supported this disastrous move.
The Portuguese Presidency attempted to bring some basic realism back to certain fundamental issues.
It served only to create distrust in an atmosphere that is already very sensitive.
Any idea of a pioneer group does not correspond to the idea of European cooperation that unites us.
I believe that Parliament too must take considerable responsibility for having undermined this body that is central to European construction, but I think that the Council is continuing to exacerbate the sideways shift and that we must, as a matter of urgency, change course and put the Commission back at the centre of the Community' s construction.
I believe that in the course of this intergovernmental conference we cannot avoid starting to plan and set ourselves an agenda for the reform of the European Union providing for gradual communitisation of the common foreign and security policy.
The precedence of EU law may be dated back to the judgements given in 1962 and 1964.
The right of veto in accordance with the Luxembourg Compromise prevailed from 1966 to 1986.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council presidency has given itself a bit of a pat on the back by declaring that the Portuguese Presidency has done what it set out to do, no more and no less than that.
Above all, there is the respect with which the Portuguese Presidency always treated this Parliament, which will certainly have contributed to future presidencies adopting a new stance in their relations with Parliament.
First and foremost, I would cite the postponement of the decision on the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The decision making in the field of the CESDP also demonstrates the lack of unanimity amongst the Member States.
The ambiguity of Europe' s intentions is even more apparent in Annex 2 to the presidency' s conclusions on relations between the European Union and NATO.
In short, after all these years, Europe still does not know what it wants.
The Portuguese Presidency has shown yet again that it is high time the tasks and competences of Europe and the national Member States were given clear definition.
Mr President, I am similarly dismayed at the way in which Austria continues to be prejudged by 14 Member States and in my view, despite the many words of praise about the Portuguese Presidency, the absurdity of the sanctions against Austria, which Member States agreed together but are applying bilaterally, will, as a German newspaper once wrote, go down as a peculiar irony in the history of the EU and therefore unfortunately also in the history of the Portuguese Presidency.
The work of the presidency will surely only be credible if the values which are to be defended are binding on all the Member States of the EU and are not employed arbitrarily and on demand as political propaganda by individual politicians against a democratically-elected government of an EU Member State.
Mr President, firstly I would like to add my voice to those who earlier paid their respects to the memory of President Pflimlin.
The Berlin speeches by Foreign Minister Fischer, visionary and controversial, by President Chirac, controversial but not visionary, and by Prime Minister Blair, neither visionary nor controversial, which threaten to overshadow the memory of the Portuguese Presidency, leave certain questions in the mind which the Portuguese Presidency can still help us with.
Secondly, on enlargement, could he confirm that there is still the political will in the Council so that candidate countries, this House and the public of Europe can expect to hear target dates announced for the first wave of accession?
However, I have one question: have we indeed made clear to the candidate countries that the debate on closer cooperation mainly applies to them at the moment and that we are in a hurry to complete the arrangements before new partners join the European Union?
The future of Europe depends on two major issues: democracy and employment.
It means independence for Europe from the United States and therefore greater autonomy for NATO.
The Portuguese Presidency referred to federalism and to future issues in general, but without, for example, raising the matter of own resources and without a spectacular increase in own resources, enlargement will become practically impossible and politically painful.
Mr President, the Feira Council neither surprised nor disappointed us.
There must therefore be some mistake here, either in the simultaneous interpreting or in the register of votes.
We will clarify this matter, Mr Ribeiro e Castro.
Mr President, it is not possible in a mere 240 seconds to give a full report of the positive work which President Guterres and all his team have done on behalf of the European Union.
It is not that we Socialists wish to see a policy of economic coordination against the central bank, but we do wish to see constructive dialogue between the decision makers in monetary policy and the decision makers in national economic policy, with each party, obviously, having to retain its own autonomy of action and decision making.
A few simple rules must be set within the Economic and Financial Affairs Council, but more especially within the Euro-11, requiring every Finance Minister to justify to his fellows the broad outlines of his draft budget or tax reform or any other national action likely to affect the European Union as a whole.
The development of the internal market also necessitates new regulations in order to guarantee workers' rights in the event of business mergers or buyouts, in order to avoid relocations for reasons of fiscal or social dumping and in order to guarantee basic public services for all sectors of the population, especially the most vulnerable.
The Socialists expect the upcoming French Presidency to ensure that the draft social agenda makes rapid progress and is substantial in content.
The phenomenal development of the Internet within our societies must not blind us to the fact that there is a digital divide and that the gap between info-rich and info-poor is increasing in developed countries and, more especially, in the third world.
Mr President, I would have so many more things to say but, unfortunately, my speaking time is running out: 240 seconds is really not very much at all.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Commissioner, I really wish with all my heart - given my political views - that the Portuguese had had an easier presidency, a presidency without the strains caused by the bilateral sanctions imposed on the Federal Austrian Government and therefore on my country.
The longer this policy remains on the boil the more indigestible it is, not only for my country but also for the whole European Union.
It was not least for this reason - since these measures are of course devoid of any legal base - that Parliament's President, Nicole Fontaine, pointed out at the beginning of the Feira summit that the European Parliament had adopted a resolution on 15 June calling on the Council to analyse relations between Austria and the other 14 Member States, and to draw up with all the parties concerned a procedure which would enable a solution to be found which would be acceptable to everyone.
Sustainable stability must be proved by all countries which want to join the euro zone, but also by those which are already in it.
In this way, funds will also be released for social policy and social security will not have to find the money to cover a lack of income owing to fraud.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese Presidency was a pro-active presidency.
The agreements on the common foreign and security policy bear witness to Parliament' s total exclusion.
We are slipping into a more intergovernmental and less federal Europe and this must be checked as a matter of urgency.
Firstly, the danger of a shift towards an intergovernmental approach.
Before the Feira Summit, we also held a forum attended by representatives of Parliament, the Commission and the Council, Member States, and also the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Economic and Social Council, the Committee of the Regions and our social partners.
I therefore fully agree with all those who feel that the Union' s true nature must be preserved as a Union and strengthened as such, and that a shift towards an intergovernmental approach is highly undesirable.
Secondly, the Intergovernmental Conference.
It was not the Portuguese Presidency' s responsibility to conclude the work of the Intergovernmental Conference.
The next question would be: will it be possible to conclude the IGC?
With regard to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, I feel particularly comfortable with this issue, because the Portuguese Government has always recommended that a Charter of Fundamental Rights should be included in the Treaty.
My desire, the desire of the Portuguese Government, is that this Charter should become a fundamental instrument of the Union.
This shows that we were working at top speed, in excellent cooperation with the Commission - and I must here emphasise the role of Commissioner Verheugen - in order to move forward as quickly as possible with the work on enlargement.
The Lisbon Summit laid down a strategy.
We have talked about the information society and the information society action plan has been approved.
This is the key issue and this is the issue on which the Commission has now been instructed to work in certain crucial areas, which, we feel, will result in very important decisions for the European Union in the near future.
We must do this - and let us be quite clear about this - because xenophobia and racism do exist in our societies, in all our countries.
The honourable Member asked me how I saw the relationship between the institutions - between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
I can answer very directly: in my own area it is a subject about which I have made one or two speeches recently.
We have to apply to the budgetary authority - to Parliament and the Council - for the level of our commitments in external relations every year, but we should be involved in a much more open dialogue with the budgetary authority about the direction in which those spending commitments should go.
There should be a more serious exchange about our political priorities.
Finally, I should like to pay one last compliment in the direction of the Portuguese Presidency at the end of its term.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have here a very good example of cooperation between the European Commission and the European Parliament.
We are grateful to the Commission for this, and I think that this is a good example of the Commission responding to initiatives emanating from Parliament and acting on them.
On the other hand, I must also make a number of critical comments.
I believe that the Commission has overshot the mark somewhat in its proposal.
At this stage I should like to express my grateful thanks for the constructive cooperation which we have enjoyed with the Finnish and Portuguese Presidencies, and I am sure that in our further discussions we will also cooperate fruitfully with the French Presidency.
That is why we decided in the committee even before the summer break that we would enter into detailed consultations now in the first reading, complete the normal procedure of first and second readings and then await the Council's common position.
This should not, however, prevent us from continuing to seek to cooperate with the Council on this issue because the Tampere summit made the fight against money laundering its very top priority, and rightly so.
Article 280 of the EC Treaty clearly states that, "The Community and the Member States shall counter fraud and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the Community through measures to be taken in accordance with this Article, which shall act as a deterrent and be such as to afford effective protection..." .
However, we do recognise the delimitation problems and, if there is simply a reference to Article 280 of the Treaty, we are prepared to go along with the rapporteur.
We must bear in mind, as has already been said by the rapporteur, that the proposal we are considering is before us at our request, at the request of Parliament, because we wanted to get to grips with money-laundering, with this international crime which represents a substantial threat to the single market.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we vote in favour of this directive tomorrow or the day after we will be establishing one of the cornerstones of the fight against organised crime because, as Diemut Theato mentioned, the driving force behind organised crime is the money from drug trafficking, from trafficking in human beings and from all forms of organised crime.
That is why it is so important that we take up the battle here against money laundering and prevent it from happening.
Because if we succeed in stamping out money laundering then we will also stamp out organised crime.
The situation has changed.
That is why it is absolutely essential for the European Parliament, for the institutions, the Commission and the Council, to make decisions here so that we have a new effective instrument with which to combat money laundering.
Mr President, in recent years criminal organisations within and outside Europe have set up powerful international networks which make huge profits from, for example, trafficking in women or drugs.
The fight against money laundering is a top political priority.
Both at the Tampere Summit and the Feira Summit, the European Council asked the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers to approve this proposal, which provides for the scope of application of the 1991 money laundering directive to be updated and extended, as soon as they possibly could.
Almost everyone agrees that the directive of 10 June 1991 on prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering has worked well.
The Commission is largely well-disposed towards the underlying idea or the intention behind the lion' s share of the proposed amendments, but would prefer at this stage not to go for a technical solution.
This applies to Amendments Nos 4 and 12.
As far as tax consultants and accountants are concerned, at this stage the Commission has not yet taken a definitive stance on whether the same conditions should be applied to these professions as are applied to lawyers, and hence whether a limited number of their transactions should fall within the scope of the directive, or whether the directive should apply more widely to these professions.
But the problem there is that more often than not, this type of dealer is not regulated at all and that it can therefore seem difficult, not to say impossible, to establish whether they have fulfilled their obligations.
The Commission will continue its search for a suitable way of bringing these dealers within the directive' s scope of application.
It will continue to work on this aspect of the proposal.
The Commission is prepared to look into the extent to which UCITS (Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities) and collecting societies should fall within the scope of the directive.
The Commission is prepared to work with the Member States to establish what the role of the market supervisory authorities should be.
Amendments Nos 31, 32, 41 en 43.
There is nothing in the proposal to stop the Member States from going further than the requirements laid down in the directive.
These amendments seem to deny OLAF any authority whatsoever within the scope of this directive.
The Commission takes the view that these amendments could place too many restrictions on the application of this directive to the legal professions.
The proposal cannot treat customs and tax officials in the same way as it does financial institutions or professions falling within the scope of the directive.
This aspect must be left to the Member States.
The Commission feels that each Member State must decide for itself as to whether there is a role for registers of mortgages in the fight against money laundering.
The obligations contained in the directive cannot be extended to beyond the territory of the European Union.
The Commission cannot agree to this item being dropped because it would mean a cooperation obligation being imposed on the bar when this obligation can only properly be fulfilled by the normal anti-money laundering authorities.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
In order to transfer data to third countries, it must be established whether the countries guarantee an adequate level of protection.
The European Commission will ascertain that the third country provides adequate data protection and oblige the Member States to adopt standardised procedures.
The case of the United States of America, where there is no general data protection legislation in the private sector, is different.
Recently, on 6 June, the European Commission sent us the instruments it had drawn up on the basis of the conclusions reached and which it considers constitute adequate protection.
In fact, since there will be neither law nor contract, individuals do not have rights which can be invoked in Court.
The safe harbour system can only be considered to afford an adequate level of protection under article 25 of the directive if genuine protection is guaranteed for European citizens whose rights have been violated, that is if there is the possibility of getting the unlawfully processed data erased and of obtaining compensation for damages by means of recourse to a judge or arbitrator or any independent third party who has been assigned the task of guaranteeing that reparation is made for any harm suffered.
In this light, I would argue, and I hope that the majority of Parliament will vote likewise by means of the amendments presented by my group and others, for a "yes" , but on the strict condition that we see realism, respect for the law, respect for institutional balance, but above all, Mr President, respect for the citizens and their interests.
It is to safeguard our responsibility, as established in the very ambiguous Amendment No 6.
I must point out that the United States have at least 25 years of experience in this type of system, which supports the idea that this can work and that it is going to work.
I hope that tomorrow this House will support this position which, as I have said, is ultimately in the interest of the citizens of Europe.
Mr President, I should like to compliment the Commission on sticking with the negotiations with the USA over the last two years.
But if we express our very strong reservations and to ask for clear review, this will give our citizens protection now and offer us progress in this very difficult area.
In the context of an agreement with the United States, the rapporteur emphasised the extent to which this country lacked any legally binding standard on personal data protection.
It would be a great shame, particularly now that, after years of discussion, the Council appears to be willing to set up a proper European body to monitor the use of personal data, if we were to ease off the pressure in terms of our demands on the subject with regard to third countries in general and the United States in particular.
It is a condition sine qua non for any real protection of citizens' individual liberties.
If we adopt this report, we will not only be expressing our political will to succeed in concluding an agreement containing protection clauses which respect European legislation, but we will also be encouraging a large proportion of Congress and of United States' public opinion to develop personal data protection laws.
Clearly, we cannot know how the United States will react to our concerns.
Naturally the Commission believes that it has used its authority correctly with regard to its proposal for a decision on the safe harbour, and I hope that Parliament sees it the same way.
The decision is unilateral and if the safe harbour system fails to accommodate the requirements stipulated by the United States then we might as well suspend or withdraw our decision unilaterally as well.
Paragraph 7 of the draft resolution states that certain changes will have to be made before Parliament is prepared to agree that the safe harbour system affords adequate protection.
The officials responsible for data protection in the European Union have themselves said, in an opinion that is quoted extensively in your draft resolution, that, in principle, self-regulatory systems afford adequate protection.
Participating firms will have to pay compensation in a whole host of circumstances, for example on account of their obligations pursuant to legislation in the United States.
The third change Parliament wants to see concerns the right to have data cancelled when it has been obtained or processed illegally.
Therefore, the Commission does not see any need to retain these changes for us to be able to deem the level of protection afforded by the safe harbours adequate.
The United States has no desire to revisit the discussions again and the Commission also takes the view that the talks are over.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
Parliament has always been of the opinion that these states should be exempt from visa requirements.
Obviously these countries have in the meantime also managed to convince the Commission.
These Member States should, it is argued, have the possibility of demanding visas from citizens from these same third countries.
We need standard rules on visas, and I think that the Commission has tabled a good proposal.
Mr President, I should first of all like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, who has put forward a very concise and well-presented report and one that we are happy to support.
I would like to draw attention to one or two points from it.
That is important because young people are enthusiastic about the European ideal and we do not want to put anything in their way that makes them think that Europe is not welcoming and not moving in the right direction.
My last point concerns Romania and Bulgaria, particularly Romania, a country I know well.
Mr President, the introduction of a European visa policy is the occasion to debate an important issue, and here in this House we are today discussing the latest developments in this visa policy.
That architecture rests on two cornerstones, namely the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice in accordance with the new Title IV inserted in the European Community Treaty, and the integration of the Schengen acquis into the Union framework, to which is added the dimension of variable geometry resulting from the different protocols annexed by several Member States to the Amsterdam Treaty.
To clarify our position: Amendments Nos 3 and 4 can be accepted, as the changes they make to the wording avoid any contradiction with other provisions of the regulation.
Amendments Nos 7 and 8 are prompted by a wish to clarify the demarcation line between the scope of the regulation and other matters, some of which are governed by the Schengen acquis, integrated into the Community.
Finally, the Commission is also unable to accept Amendment No 6.
Despite all the sympathy that can be felt towards the possibility of exempting young people taking part in European Union Youth Programmes from visa requirements, the Commission must stick to its aim of maximum harmonisation and avoid cases creating derogations from, or exceptions to, the visa requirement.
The Commission is convinced that efforts to ensure that the need to obtain a visa does not constitute an obstacle to young people wishing to take part in European Union programmes will have to be made in the rules on the conditions for the issue of visas which will be dealt with by a different instrument and which are not covered by this regulation.
Parliament's swiftness is appreciated by the Commission, and it will help it, in the field of visas, to meet the deadlines set in the action plan adopted in Vienna and reproduced in the scoreboard drawn up following the European Council in Tampere.
The debate is closed.
