Community legal framework for a European Research Infrastructure (ERI) (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Riera Madurell, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the Community legal framework for a European Research Infrastructure (ERI) - C6-0306/2008 -.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to point out that unanimity was achieved in the ITRE Committee regarding this report.
Unanimity was possible thanks to the good work and cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs, whose contributions also largely helped to achieve a useful report on a subject as important as the European research infrastructure.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first and foremost, I wish to express my gratitude to the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy (ITRE) and particularly to the rapporteur, Ms Riera Madurell, for supporting our proposal for the Community legal framework for a European Research Infrastructure.
The real question is whether European research infrastructure should be given the status of international organisations, as defined in the VAT Directive and, as such, be exempt from the VAT payment.
After all, we in Europe have made ourselves the part of the world with the greatest purchasing power, and our 500 million citizens have the right to have the research results drawn up as quickly and efficiently as possible.
The ERI should also serve to train young scientists.
I would like to congratulate Teresa Riera Madurell on this report, which brings us closer to successfully establishing a European Research Area.
What concerns me is your statement that VAT will be applied at its minimum rate and that the situation regarding international status is not yet absolutely clear, at least that is how I understood it.
Article 171 was cited for the vote on the SESAR Joint Undertaking.
I should like to congratulate you once again, Commissioner, on a fascinating publication. (PL) Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her work.
Unfortunately, today's situation in research infrastructure is so complex that we are losing time and thus money also.
A little over a year ago, on 8 January 2008, you received a communication from the Deputy Secretary-General, on a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 27 October 2007.
Mr President, I would like to thank everyone who has taken part in this debate for their contributions, and also I would like to thank the Commissioner for his words and say that I entirely agree with his very clear explanation regarding the VAT issue.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 19 February 2009.
However, I am pleased that by discussing this report on the proposal for a Council regulation on the Community legal framework for a European Research Infrastructure, we are sending out an important signal that research remains a priority activity for the European Union.
In the next 25 years, as a result of urbanisation, it is expected that almost 25% of land will be withdrawn from agricultural use.
I welcome the report on establishing a legal framework for the European Research Infrastructure (ERI), as well as the Commission's proposal for a regulation in this area.
ERI is a response to a real need on the part of European researchers and will undoubtedly help boost competitiveness in European science.
Community policies in this area must combine scientific excellence with triggering an influx of researchers and effective infrastructures into countries, such as the new members of the European Union from the accession rounds in 2004 and 2007.
The report compiled by Teresa Riera Madurell is particularly important as it creates the legal framework required to develop research infrastructures.
