rapporteur. - (BG) Today in the European Parliament we are initiating an important debate on the provision of additional resources from the European budget to rural areas in the Community to help them cope with the consequences of the economic crisis.
The amount which each country will receive is intended for the development of broadband Internet and for meeting the new challenges which were defined in the regular review of the common agricultural policy for 2008.
As a result of this amendment, the total amount of resources available for 2009 would reach almost EUR 850 million.
It is important for Member States to abide by the scheduled timeframes and to include additional activities in the rural development programmes, thereby allowing these funds to be used.
I am very pleased about this and would like to thank the Council representatives, the Czech Presidency and Commissioner Piebalgs for their very close and fruitful cooperation.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as agreement was reached on the 2009 budget the Commission presented a proposal on the revision of the MFF in order to finance trans-European energy networks and broadband infrastructure projects in the context of the European Economic Recovery Plan.
In the original proposal to provide five billion through a revised financial perspective split into two tranches - EUR 3.5 billion in 2009 and EUR 2.5 billion in 2010 - the Commission learned from the budget disaster of the proposal on the food aid facility.
However, it is also clear that what we said in the plenary session of the European Parliament on 25 March regarding the review of the multiannual financial framework needs to be on the agenda even more urgently.
The Commission is called upon to learn from these experiences from the last two to three years and present relevant proposals in the autumn.
The package is also an example of solidarity within the European Union.
The Commission provides reassurance in a comprehensive declaration that it will reconsider the situation in 2010, referring expressly to the option of suggesting using uncommitted funds for measures in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
The final compromise left us with a bit less money for rural development than we had wanted.
The current policy framework also allows money to already be spent on projects in 2009.
Of course, there are some differences, but with you and with Commissioner Piebalgs it has always been a pleasure, and I want to thank you very much on behalf of Parliament and also personally.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, I am very pleased about this agreement, which has made it possible to continue with the legislative process for the recovery plan within the timeframe we had hoped for.
The financing methods for 2009 are very clear: of a total of EUR 3.98 billion, EUR 2 billion will be earmarked for energy by means of compensation under heading 2, 'Preservation and management of natural resources'.
I also consider that, in the light of the deficit that the current interinstitutional agreement has highlighted, we need to look more deeply into the subject in order to make this agreement more flexible and therefore more able to respond to further financial needs.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - (BG) As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development, I would like to say how pleased I am with the final version of the European Energy Programme for Recovery.
The current economic and financial crisis is jeopardising various programmes in the area of energy security, which is detrimental to our future economic growth and success.
As a result of this, the correct approach is to grant additional financial incentives for projects in the energy sector which will help restore our economy and promote the security of energy supplies, and are also aimed at cutting greenhouse gas emissions.
This new programme will effectively strengthen energy security in my country, Bulgaria, too, thanks to the provision of funding for the Nabucco gas pipeline and our connection with the infrastructure networks in Greece and Romania.
This will make us less vulnerable during crises similar to the one we had last winter.
This is why I would like to stress once again the need for a common European Union energy policy.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Regional Development has been called on by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to give an opinion on the proposal for a Council regulation on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), which has now reached the Chamber for debate within the context of the more general EUR 5 billion package.
The measure in question can be seen as a timely response by the Commission to the needs underpinning the decision, adopted by the Council on 11 and 12 December 2008, to approve a European economic recovery plan containing specific measures in many sectors of Community and national competence to tackle the economic and financial crisis that has involved the European markets since 2007.
Taken as a whole, the Commission's proposal - which provides for a budget of EUR 1.5 billion to be made available to all the Member States through the European Fund for Rural Development, to develop access to broadband Internet in rural areas and to confront the new challenges identified in the medium-term common agricultural policy reform assessment, concluded in November 2008 - has the full support of the Committee on Regional Development, which feels that the suggested measures, if implemented quickly and in full, will certainly be able to help pick up the national economies and make consumers trust in the system again, while also effectively pursuing objectives of territorial and social convergence in regions of the Union.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (SL) Tackling the financial and economic crisis is an important test of Europe's unity and solidarity.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems as though the peace of Christmas is upon us - everything is passing off so peacefully.
Finally, I would like to thank both Commissioners for their cooperation both personally and on behalf of my Group.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are discussing is part of a package of EUR 5 billion allocated to the European economic recovery plan, of which EUR 1 040 is earmarked for the construction and completion of infrastructures for broadband Internet coverage in rural areas and for development in relation to the new challenges brought to light by the health check on the common agricultural policy.
I believe that the agreement that has been reached on support for the European Union's energy policy in the long term, providing incentives in the short term for the recovery of the economy, achieves both goals.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, this is a sad day for the credibility of the European Union.
A Keynesian recovery is needed to respond to a cyclical downturn, but this crisis is structural.
Thirdly, as for the Podimata report, which relates to the current report, we recommend that we not only take into account the energy needed to operate a product, but also consider information on the amount of energy needed to manufacture that product.
The inclusion of this information will give a much-needed competitive advantage to our economies, which are under too great a threat of unfair global competition. - (SK) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion the European Parliament and the Council have taken some extraordinary but effective decisions in transferring EUR 5 billion of unused resources from 2008 to 2009 for a stimulation package to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis, along with the sum of EUR 4 billion to resolve some of the bottlenecks in the European energy network.
The measures implemented and financed from this package should therefore help prevent a repeat of this crisis. (DE) Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank Mrs Stavreva for her excellent report.
It should not be overlooked that more than 50% of the population of the European Union lives in rural areas.
I would like to extend my sincerest thanks to all my colleagues, the Commission and all the institutions of the European Union, especially officials and staff, for their help and support.
We have successfully reached a situation where the money can be used in a much more flexible way compared to the original proposal, within a suitably broad framework, to develop broadband Internet access in rural areas and to tackle the new challenges defined during the review of the common agricultural policy.
Member States' rural development plans must be reviewed as quickly as possible so that the amounts now specified can be made available as soon as possible.
The rural population are the most vulnerable victims of the economic crisis.
Finally, Madam President, I would like to thank Commissioner Fischer Boel for the extremely constructive work that she has done and Commissioner Piebalgs, who has worked very closely with the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and who has personally been extremely important as far as the energy package and the climate package are concerned and in terms of what we have achieved in this area over the last five years.
The European Union is currently giving farmers broadband Internet at huge cost instead of meeting more important needs, such as bringing farms, and not farming concerns, to a higher level. (EL) Madam President, the aim of the EUR 5 billion economic recovery programme is to take advantage of the capitalist crisis and help capital to achieve its objectives by promoting capitalist restructurings in strategic sectors, such as energy and electronic communications.
Broadband internet and networks are necessary for the development of rural areas, but they are not a priority.
It is also true to say that, with regard to promoting broadband in rural areas, it should be entitled to make a real contribution to ensuring that the digital segregation of society is overcome and that more people have the opportunity to take part in it and to strengthen internal cohesion in the European Union.
Otherwise not only individual areas but also entire valleys in Europe will soon be deserted.
However, rural areas cannot be kept alive through agricultural subsidies alone.
There is no doubt that agriculture is very important to the countryside but there are also many other businesses out there.
Once broadband is available, the connections can be very good in some of the most rural areas we have in the European Union.
Finally, as for the EUR 5 billion that we are discussing today, I would like to make four observations.
The measures put forward will undoubtedly be useful, but the funding still remains insecure.
In conclusion, I would like to congratulate the two commissioners on the work they have done and Mrs Fischer Boel, in particular, with whom I have enjoyed very close cooperation over the past five years. (LV) Ladies and gentlemen, an initiative of EUR 5 billion in total is a good basis both for the further development of the European Union's common energy policy and for rural development in the long term.
It also entails a transfer of funds from the agricultural budget to rural development.
This approach actually reflects the conclusions reached by the Presidency of the European Council on 12 December 2008.
In order to ensure the most effective use of the resources available and to give a considerable boost to the development of broadband Internet access in rural areas, I think that the current differences between Member States in terms of broadband coverage should be used as a guide for making differentiations when allocating these funds. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are less than two hours away from the final decision on the European Economic Recovery Plan.
It has taken us five months - needless to say because of sophistry in the Council - five months to come to a decision on the package now before us.
However, more effective help for the entire European economy comes from a common regional and structural political framework: EUR 38 billion - this year alone!
I understand what a few of my fellow Members have said, about most of the money having simply gone back to those states and their energy projects, but I believe that in this proposal the solidarity principle is evident.
Thank you. (NL) Madam President, this is the third year of our financial perspectives and it is also the third year that we have gathered here to talk about their intermediate adjustment.
A fortnight ago, my delegation opposed the granting of discharge for the 2007 budget because of problems involving oversight and financial responsibility.
I know that my speaking time is over, but I would like to take another three seconds to thank the Commissioner for spending many late evenings here with us, discussing things after debates on agriculture had finished.
However, we should welcome it, not so much because of the funding allocation, but for what it means in political and budgetary terms: it means, firstly, an acknowledgement that the current financial framework that we adopted for the 2007-2013 period does not have appropriate instruments with which to tackle a situation of economic crisis.
The debated proposal to support economic recovery through Community financial assistance for projects in the energy sector is part of a European economic recovery plan which envisages allocating an overall sum of EUR 30 billion.
The presidency, led by the Czech Republic and the Commission, has made a responsible attempt through this package to respond - among other tasks - to the gas crisis, and in so doing to defuse some sensitive issues, particularly in Central and Eastern Europe.
The fact is that some of the issues remain unresolved.
Some Member States that are slower in drawing down EU funds may pay the price of failing to prepare all of their projects by next year.
However, in my opinion, these facts do not justify us rejecting this hard-won compromise.
Rejection may eventually cause not only a shortage of money for energy-saving projects, but also a lack of funds to ensure reliable supplies of gas to our homes.
Firstly, by the incontrovertible need for us to do more in Europe for electricity interconnection and broadband Internet.
The positive message, of course, is that Europe is using the Community budget as a tool against the crisis.
If this systemic method leads us to the simplistic deductive reasoning that agriculture will always have unused appropriations to pay for new requirements and from that we conclude, in the run-up to the important debates on the future of agriculture after 2013, that agriculture already has more than it needs, that would be a huge strategic mistake for Europe.
In other words, we should not consider that we need to go 'lower' in agriculture, because the budget proved that, up to 2013, we always had money, which we took from for Galileo, for energy and for broadband Internet.
I think that these measures from the Commission and these proposals are just the start of devising an energy security policy.
I am expecting a strategy for improving the gas supply directive, as well as a draft common energy policy to be proposed in the very near future. (LT) I would like to talk about the macroeconomic impact of this package.
I should like to express my congratulations on this initiative and am particularly pleased that we can adopt it today. (RO) I too would like to congratulate our rapporteurs.
This document is important as the interconnection of the energy infrastructure must be a priority.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I see broad support for our proposal and I think it is very important to remember where we were at the beginning of this Parliament.
We have more or less 27 national energy policies and 27 markets with different states of liberalisation.
The Baltic States talked a lot about cooperation and interconnections with the Nordic market but, until the formulation of this package, we had somehow stopped short of real development on Baltic interconnection.
We have a surplus because we have not had extraordinary expenditures - we have had very low costs on intervention and a very low cost on export refunds - and therefore we can manage this specific situation.
It is also important to underline the solidarity in the distribution of the money.
When you look at rural development, it is obvious that it has been redistributed in accordance with the money available in the rural development budget for the various Member States, which de facto gives an advantage to the new Member States.
I also wish to thank Commissioner Boel for her positive approach and for the support which she continues to give farmers and rural inhabitants.
I think we must value the fact that, within a very short space of time, Member States were able to come to an agreement, and this document is in Parliament and will be put to the vote.
That is, of course, your prerogative, but now I would like to make a personal statement according to the rules of procedure.
Written statements (Rule 142) The regulation establishes a programme of aid for the EU economy during the crisis.
The projects differ in their importance.
In the debate on the report on budgetary discipline and sound financial management as regards the multiannual financial framework (2007-2013) I would like to draw attention to three matters. 1.
We should support the allocation of EUR 5 billion to financing energy projects in 2009 and 2010 and to financing development of the Internet infrastructure in rural areas.
We should allocate EUR 3.5 billion to the energy network and EUR 1.5 billion to the Internet infrastructure in rural areas. 2.
I must also express my concern at the fact that this kind of fundamental change in the financial perspective for 2007 to 2013 is being made two months before the end of the current parliamentary term, in great haste, and without any chance of objective debate on the subject.
The 100 million granted for the Estlink 2 submarine cable project will have a special impact on Finland.
The various solar energy projects, in particular, would have deserved to receive financing.
We will allocate an additional sum of over EUR 1 billion to improving Internet access in rural areas and to the new challenges which are specified in the review of the common agricultural policy.
Without establishing good connections between the systems in the relevant countries, it is not possible either to create a unified energy market or to apply the principle of solidarity in the EU.
