I indicated to them my willingness to intervene at the highest level with the other institutions to express the concerns that they had drawn to my attention.
I do not yet know what the case will be, but in the context of what we are doing today, our political duty, if we can, is to proceed with our business with serenity.
Let me say this in all seriousness to all the staff and officials of this House: where your legitimate interests are at stake, we are on your side, but do not use this historic day, when the admission of ten countries to the European Union is at stake, as the occasion for enforcing interests that may or may not be legitimate.
Mr President, it is a practice both in trade union and in other negotiations to use one's strength at a time when it is calculated to cause the most difficulty for those with whom one is in dispute.
The action being threatened by the unions does not reflect fairly the mutual respect which exists within the House between the different partners, or indeed the good relations that we have generally enjoyed.
You are right to proceed with our business and I would appeal to the staff of the House to assist us in carrying through today's historic task with the maximum goodwill on their part.
We therefore believe, Mr President, that we must continue with our agenda at this historic moment.
With all the respect that we have for staff we must also respect, if we can, our own prerogative as parliamentarians.
They are here to follow our debate.
The adjustment of the Financial Perspective for Enlargement presented by the Commission in accordance with point 25 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 on Budgetary Discipline and Improvement of the Budgetary Procedure (COM(2003) 70 - C5-0053/2003 - 2003/2025(ACI)); and 2.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please permit me to start my statement with an expression of thanks to the staff of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and also to the staff of the groups, who, over the past years - just as much as the rapporteurs on the individual countries - have taken such trouble in dealing with this issue in depth, so that we have always been enabled, by broad majorities, to do justice to our task.
It is now for us, after centuries of disputes between them, not to abolish the nation states, but to bring them together in such a way that they will never again be able to wage war upon each other.
At the same time, we are in a position to bring this European continent together in such a way that it will not only have the strength that comes from peace at home, but will also be able, in the outside world, to manage peacekeeping tasks and to defend its own interests.
We therefore wish to specifically remind all present and future Member States of Article 11 of the Treaty of Nice, which contains the obligation to work together on foreign issues too, in a spirit of solidarity.
This enlargement of the European Union will mean that my country will no longer have an external border, with the exception of the border with Switzerland, and thus no border that could be fought over in war or be the occasion of conflict.
I believe that we are thereby fulfilling the wishes of Konrad Adenauer, who once said that Germany had to be led out of its geographical situation by political means.
I believe it to be also the best thing we can do for peaceful development, and, at this time, I would also like to thank those from the peoples about to join us who have stretched out their hands to us.
In this context, let me also thank the President of the Czech Republic, Vaclav Klaus, for his statement in March of this year.
There is still much to be done, however.
The candidate countries will be obliged to make further substantial progress in the areas of administration, a competent judiciary, the combating of corruption and the guaranteeing of minority rights.
This will also involve, in the same way, the citizens of the European Union acquiring the same rights, with no possibility of discrimination remaining, with legal protection from discrimination, which also provides a crucial security.
I believe it to be extraordinarily important that I should say, in this context, that the European Union can of course be extended to include more countries, and Bulgaria and Romania are waiting for this.
We have created a Union which is something entirely new when set alongside all alliances, that being a Union that makes conflict resolution within a state into an instrument for resolving conflicts between peoples.
Its common legal order and its shared institutions mean that it is no ordinary alliance like those that formerly existed.
If we are to say that the European Union can go thus far, but cannot manage any further, that has to be said after we have seen just what this quasi-State is capable of.
On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I wish to call upon you to approve the accession of all ten countries today.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we managed at the very last minute to reach a compromise on the adjustment of the Financial Perspective for 2004-2006 and thus to guarantee our ability, today, to do justice to our historic responsibility whilst at the same time defending this House's budgetary powers and rights of codecision.
As the Committee on Budgets' rapporteur on the financial arrangements for enlargement, I want again to make it clear that these difficult negotiations have never been about calling into question the Copenhagen agreements with the candidate countries, but about treating them as a minimum to be guaranteed also by us.
So let me say again, loud and clear, that we, the European Parliament, in our previous resolutions - for example in June and September of last year - have, again and again, lent massive support to certain proposals by the Commission, for example the candidate countries' progressive integration into the common agricultural policy, and, for another example, the special cohesion rules for them.
The fact is that we have managed, at the very last minute, to avert an interinstitutional crisis, one into which the Council had manoeuvred us either deliberately or by negligence, by its intention that Annex XV should be given the status of EU primary law.
It would surely not have done them any harm to keep on negotiating, right up to second reading, on the adjustment of the Financial Perspective, or even, if necessary, to go back to Article 272 of the Treaty, but many people out there might have taken this to be the wrong signal.
The compromise before us has been brought about, after a fifth trialogue, by the use of what I have to call legal artifice, and by renovation and repair in a process that we are unable to properly explain to anyone out there.
Commissioner Schreyer, I would like to state openly that you, on Monday evening, made an important contribution on behalf of the Commission, when your great perseverance helped to make this result possible.
I would also like to express my thanks to the Greek Presidency of the Council, which, as what one might call the hostage of the Council's negotiating mandate, did everything humanly possible to the very end of a difficult process, making it possible for us to come to an arrangement.
We also saw it as important to make clear that if, by way of a de facto revision of financial aid for Turkey, sums are transferred from Heading 4 to Heading 7, that heading must in future be entitled Pre-Accession Strategy.
We also have to clarify again that, in the 2004 Budget procedure, which will now surely run its course in an orderly way, the issue of adjusting the Financial Perspective can be resolved without any sort of discrimination, in sub-headings or by means of capping, against the new Member States.
In a most difficult process, and on the basis of necessary repair work, we have managed to defend all of Parliament's budgetary powers and rights of codecision, while, at the same time, at the end of this difficult process - even though it was almost a dead end - the European institutions have again been able to demonstrate their capacity to act.
This sends a positive message to the candidate countries and to the citizens of Europe. (Applause) Mr President, today is a great day, and proof of this is the fact that we have 25 flags accompanying the common European flag.
And the annex affected the basic competences of Parliament.
There will be no discrimination between old and new Member States.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, as President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, I have the honour and pleasure today of addressing the European Parliament on the highly important subject of enlargement and I consider it a privilege to be present today at this debate.
Today is an historic day for the European Union and the European Parliament.
We are a community of values and, if the Union and enlargement are a success, it is because these values are going from strength to strength.
The countries about to join the European Union share our common history, heritage and culture.
Today we are putting our objective of building a Europe founded on the ideals of democracy, pluralism, the rule of law, respect for human rights and the free market economy into practice.
It offered a Europe based on free choice and solidarity between its citizens.
Relations between the Union and the candidate countries have gradually been strengthened through various procedures, association agreements, structured dialogue on a series of issues, accession criteria, accession negotiations and pre-accession mechanisms and procedures.
During all these stages, the European Union's position has very clearly been to safeguard the global, evolutionary and substantial character of the accession process, with all the candidate countries participating on an equal footing and acceding to the European Union with equal opportunities.
At the beginning of accession negotiations, the Union made it perfectly clear that accession implied complete acceptance of the actual and potential rights and obligations connected with the Union and its institutional framework, including in the foreign relations sector, and that accession implied proper, practical application of the acquis communautaire, including the establishment of a reliable working public administration.
Far-reaching, often painful economic reforms were needed in all the countries which were to accede.
However, thanks to persistence and determination on all sides, these negotiations were conducted in a thorough, efficient and transparent manner and I think that I speak for everyone involved when I say that we are proud of this process and its outcome.
As you know, negotiations with the 10 acceding countries were completed in Copenhagen on 13 December last year.
The terms of accession are common knowledge and are contained in the draft Treaty and in the Accession Act submitted to the European Parliament.
The results of the negotiations do, we feel, reflect the best possible outcome and a fair agreement.
In addition to the Herculean and unprecedented task carried out by the Council and the Commission during this process, I should like to highlight the continuous and important effort also made by the acceding countries.
I should also like to offer my sincere thanks to the European Parliament for the political support it has given us throughout this process.
We particularly appreciate the open and constructive political dialogue with your democratically elected partners in each of the acceding countries.
It helped enormously in clarifying exactly what accession to the European Union implies for the acceding countries.
Today, all the citizens in the acceding countries are looking towards us.
The positive outcome of the referenda in Malta and Slovenia are a clear and decisive sign of their trust in the Europe of tomorrow.
The European Union uses delicate manoeuvres to set the renewal of its policies in motion in a series of crucial sectors, such as structural policy or agricultural policy, in order to safeguard its potential for growth, social cohesion and its ability to face up to its international challenges.
The European Union deals with internal concerns by renewing its institutional framework, especially in the sense of extending the process of European integration.
I should like to conclude my speech with two comments.
We need to repair the damage done by the differences which have arisen in the foreign policy sector and which marked the issue of Iraq.
We need to convince the citizens of the European Union and of countries outside the European Union that we stand for the values of peace, stability, confidence and support for growth and we must make a systematic and sincere effort to repair our relations with all our basic partners.
Ladies and gentlemen, Europe belongs to the citizens of Europe without exception or discrimination.
The European Union is ready to receive its new Member States, secure in the knowledge that it is acquiring a new configuration and new momentum, the sort of momentum demonstrated in these countries, during the transitional period, on economic, political and social issues and reforms.
It is incumbent upon all of us to make enlargement a catalyst for faster European unification, a force which will ensure that Europe is able to meet the challenges of a new era of global relations.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, you will today be deciding on one of the most important questions for the future of our continent.
You alone, in the European Parliament, have the right to say yes or no to the accessions of ten new Member States.
No other parliament in Europe will have the opportunity to say yes or no to individual countries; all the others will merely have to ratify the treaty as a whole.
I believe that it is worthy of note that the European Parliament was equalled by few in Europe in keeping the open wound of the divided Europe a live issue even during the Cold War, putting the case for a European future in which its peoples could determine their destiny in freedom and by democratic means.
Today, we are talking about the people in Europe - over 70 million of them - who have looked forward to this day with boundless hope and expectation, but whose courage and determination have also made straight the way for a free and united Europe.
The Poles have their thousand years of history as a European nation that, being obliged to live under Communist hegemony and martial law for many years, never even for one day resigned itself to its fate, but instead defended themselves, becoming the undoubted originators of the great movement in Central and Eastern Europe that eventually led to the total collapse of Communist rule in Europe.
We are talking about the Lithuanians, the Latvians and the Estonians, victims of the Second World War whom nobody had asked whether they wanted to be part of the Soviet Union, who, for decades worked desperately to maintain their national and cultural identity in the face of a policy of Russification, and who succeeded in doing so.
We are talking about Slovenia, a country that tried to go its own way even in the days when Tito ruled Yugoslavia, which, as soon as Communism had collapsed in Yugoslavia, set a determined course for Europe and which, having secured 90% support in a referendum on accession to the European Union, has shown how attractive our Europe still is to young nations.
Lastly, we are talking about Malta and Cyprus, two countries that want to join with us in maintaining and defending our common values and objectives in the Mediterranean.
I can only confirm what has already been said here.
As regards the strategy and the individual steps, there was close understanding between the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council.
All of you have made an important and indispensable contribution to the success that we have achieved.
I would, though, like to say that your observations, your interventions and also your criticisms have helped to highlight problems more clearly and enable common solutions to them to be found.
The President-in-Office of the Council has observed that we are now on the threshold of signing the Accession Treaties, which is due to be done on 16 April in Athens.
It is not only where democracy was given to the world, but also the source of a few other old European ideas, such as the idea that societies must be governed justly, and the idea that it is the responsibility of individuals that holds a community together.
I would nonetheless like to reiterate the need for efforts at communicating with the public and informing them to be stepped up, so that the citizens in the Member States may really know what is going on.
The chances of resolving the conflict in Cyprus have never been as great or as strong as they are now, but we must not abandon our efforts.
The Commission will therefore do whatever it can to promote projects in Cyprus that help to reduce and alleviate the increasing disparities on the island and to foster trust between the two - Greek and Turkish - communities there.
Apart from that, I am able to inform Parliament that in all these instances, the measures requested by us have now been taken.
The fight against corruption and criminality continues to be of fundamental importance.
The upholding of human rights and the protection of minorities are still on the agenda.
The same applies to the actual implementation of equality of opportunity, an area that still causes me some concern, not only in the new Member States, but also in one or two of the present ones.
At the same time, though, we in Europe have had to pay a high price, especially those whom the end of the Second World War, and its political consequences, obliged to live behind the Iron Curtain.
Only now have we been handed this opportunity by the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe, who never reconciled themselves to being cut off from the free part of this continent.
So I do believe that we must now seize this opportunity to shape the future in such a way that twenty-first century Europe will be characterised by peace and freedom, security and prosperity.
To that, I say that this is the best-prepared enlargement in the history of the EU.
The prospect of enlargement was combined with a far-reaching reform process in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and gave direction to this transformation.
The answer is perfectly clear.
From the technical point of view, we are.
They now have the opportunity to join in the discussions and decisions on what that home should actually look like.
By the time the ten new Member States have joined us, we will have made further progress in negotiations with Romania and Bulgaria.
The Balkan countries have prospects of accession.
The time it will take to turn these prospects into reality will be dependent on their own efforts to carry out reforms.
We think back to 17 June 1953, to the Soviet tanks in Budapest in 1956 and in Prague in 1968, and cast our minds back to the great freedom movements of the 1980s, remembering Solidarity, the popular desire for freedom in Central and Eastern Europe, and 9 November 1989, the day when the wall came down.
Robert Schuman - whose name our Chamber bears - said, as long ago as the 1960s: 'One day, all Europeans will belong to the European Community, to the European Union, in freedom and in peace.' Our group has always had that as its objective.
The candidate countries can now look back on the massive efforts they have accomplished, but there are still more massive efforts ahead of them.
Above all else, we must bring Europe together and reconcile it, both morally and intellectually.
It is for that reason that we would have very much welcomed it if the Czech Government under their great President Vaclav Havel and his successor Vaclav Klaus, had had the strength and the courage to utter even one word of regret and sorrow about the people who were expelled.
Let us, together, take into the future this old Europe, which keeps on renewing itself!
The President-in-Office of the Council has said that we are going to hold this event next week in the Agora in Athens, which reflects democracy and the market - which is where we began.
This date will clearly be established as a political milestone in the history of our Union, overcoming Munich and Yalta.
Europe is being reborn as a geographical and political unit, fulfilling the words of Willy Brandt on German reunification 'Jetzt wächt zusammen was zusammen gehört' [Now what belongs together, is growing together].
I would like to say on behalf of my group that we believe, following Copenhagen, that pacta sunt servanda, that we must respect our commitments.
And also say to the new partners that they are not responsible for our internal quarrels, but that what we have to do is to build together with a view to the future, in a spirit of solidarity, overcoming national egotism through Community solidarity.
That is, propose a common will on the part of all of us to deal with the future of the Iraqi people, firstly through humanitarian aid and then by ensuring their future within the framework of the United Nations.
I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, and all the rapporteurs who have been able to find a new approach to a problem which could have led to a very difficult situation within this House, and which could, furthermore, have dramatically altered and reduced the powers of the European Parliament.
Mr President, this is in truth an historic day.
I feel proud to be able to stand here in the Chamber on this solemn occasion when we are voting in favour of ten new countries' being invited to become members of our European Community.
For the first time, we are uniting almost the whole of the continent by peaceful means - through agreements, compromises and treaties, rather than through war and conquest.
The number of Member States is to increase from 15 to 25, and the number of MEPs from 626 to 732.
As long as three years ago, we began inviting future MEPs here as 'virtual MEPs' so that they might become familiar with our work here in Parliament.
Perhaps we are the only group in Parliament that is unanimously and enthusiastically voting in favour of all ten countries, a fact I am very proud of.
We shall be pleased to welcome our friends as fellow MEPs in order to be able to work together with them for a better future for the people of Europe.
A unified Europe will give us incredible opportunities to work for peace, stability and democracy throughout the continent, to combat environmental pollution and cross-border crime and to increase the prosperity of all our people.
In common with other MEPs, we are naturally anxious about the débâcle involving the way in which the Council dealt with the budget and the interinstitutional agreement.
I want to thank those fellow MEPs who have enabled us to find a solution.
It has never been possible, however, to use such matters as arguments for voting against the accession of the candidate countries.
There are still a number of problems and shortcomings in the candidate countries, for example when it comes to respect for minorities and the fight against corruption.
We take it for granted that all the candidate countries will use the time remaining before they become full members to tackle environmental issues, to work on improving legal certainty and the protection of minorities, to fight corruption more effectively and to make efforts to combat the high incidence of human trafficking.
Following enlargement, we expect to see mechanisms devised for making sure that all the Member States, new as well as old, respect and comply with the values for which the EU stands.
Mr President, the great majority of my group will vote to allow the Accession Treaty for the ten new countries to be signed.
On the other hand, the Council's show of force on the budget aside, adopting the Brok report would amount to awarding a gold star to the fifteen Member States for the way in which the enlargement negotiations were conducted and concluded.
Each country has its own history.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been told that we are making history so many times this morning, but given the number of Members present in the House, it would appear we are doing so on the quiet.
We clearly find these historic moments difficult, but that is another story.
Moreover, it has been said that it is clear that the longed-for unification of Europe currently underway, is the result of struggle of the peoples of Eastern Europe against totalitarianism, just as post-war Europe resulted from the war the peoples of Europe waged against the Fascist regimes that had dominated the continent.
We have failed to create a social Europe because of selfish national interests.
The situation is very simple.
It would be sheer folly to believe a Council of 25 members could ever reach unanimous agreement.
We must therefore welcome the positive solution we have finally achieved, even if it does not entirely satisfy everyone.
Parliament will have other opportunities to defend its prerogatives.
In any case, what had do be done, will have been done.
Mr President, I would like to point out that the first objective laid down in the Treaty on European Union is to promote economic progress.
Another thing: these new countries include Cyprus.
As long as Cyprus is an independent state, that is a matter for the Republic of Cyprus, but when Cyprus joins the European Union, part of our Union will be occupied by Turkish troops, and I consider that to be unacceptable.
The many unqualified statements by some Czech politicians in the past, statements made with an eye to the various election campaigns, have been too frustrating for that.
Should anyone in the Czech Republic nevertheless be in breach of that after European Union accession, as a community of justice the EU can and will take appropriate action.
Today we are holding the most important vote of this legislative period.
Let us be aware of the historic implications of this vote; let us seize this opportunity by voting for the accession of the Czech Republic by a large majority.
Anyone who, like myself, has had the privilege of visiting that country regularly in various capacities for ten years can see the progress Estonia has made since regaining independence.
When you realise what additional disadvantages Estonia had to overcome compared with the non-Baltic former communist countries of Central Europe, it is almost a miracle that Estonia was in the first group to begin accession negotiations.
Despite many changes of government, the Estonian reform model has always been and still is a consistent one: in privatisation, in monetary policy, in matters affecting the tax system and in other respects.
The fact that no ethnic tensions have arisen in Estonia and other Baltic states despite the large Russian-speaking minority and despite the tragic role the Soviet Union played in their history must be ascribed to the level-headed policy of the Estonian Governments and their willingness to follow proposals made by their European partners along the road to the EU.
One thing I would like to say a word about to the Estonian citizens direct is the referendum on 14 September.
If you still have any doubts about whether you should vote in favour, then please consider whether a country the size of Estonia and in its geographical location can stand alone in today's world.
Lithuania's reform process has not been quite so consistent or brisk as in Estonia, especially not in the first half of the 1990s, but I am impressed by the speed with which Lithuania has caught up, especially since 1996, and, as in all the countries, there was a lot to be done in every area covered by the acquis.
One particular problem, both in discussions with the EU and with its own public opinion was the task of working out and paying for a plan for the closure of the nuclear power station at Ignalina and giving the people in and around the town of Visaginas a future.
I share the view of many of my fellow Members that this vote on the accession of ten countries is the most important vote of this legislative period.
You still have the chance to decide for the common future of a greater Europe without losing face.
To Estonia, Lithuania and the others I shout a warm welcome to the European Union: kõike head, Eesti ja tere tulemast Euroopa Liidu and viso kogeriausio Lietuva ir sveiki atvike ?
I would like to take advantage of my last speech as rapporteur to thank my colleagues on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and the joint parliamentary delegation, who have provided me with a great deal of support over the years.
The constitutional structure proposed for the reunited island corresponded to the model of a modern, democratic federal State and fully respected the cultural identity and autonomy of both parts of the island.
It also provided a European perspective for the two island communities.
Those who rejected the plan for global resolution because they are still in favour of the existence of two separate States bear a heavy historical responsibility.
Security Council Resolution No 541(1983) declares the TRNC's proclamation to be legally invalid and calls upon all Member States not to recognise any Cypriot State other than the Republic of Cyprus.
In fact, however, for the duration of the Turkish occupation, it will not be possible to apply the jurisdiction of the European Union and the Community acquis in the northern part of the island.
The UN Secretary-General's peace plan is still on the table.
The European Union is prepared to welcome a reunified Cyprus at any time, provided that the rules governing it comply with international law and with our own principles.
In the meantime, the European Union should be proud that it has opened its doors to a country that is indisputably European.
In conclusion, I would like to point out that, in the Iraqi affair, Cyprus refused to allow access to its territory for any military operations and stated that it wished to align itself fully with the common positions adopted by the European institutions.
Latvia has satisfied the conditions for membership of the European Union.
I have simply had the honour of being able to have a part in this success story and of accompanying it a short way emotionally.
For that, I would like to take this opportunity of thanking my colleagues in the Saeima, the government representatives, administrations and the people of Riga, Liepaja and Letgale.
What is true of other candidate countries is also true of Latvia.
We must not put the blame on Latvia and the population there simply because the Union is too lethargic to shape this historic process, because Latvia was willing to reform whilst we were not.
If Latvia becomes a member of the European Union, if its enthusiastic and youthful population becomes part of the European Union, it will also be part of the engine driving forward reform here in the European Union.
For me personally, today sees a wish come true, namely that our friends the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary, who gave us in the GDR the courage to change, will be able to join us and will be able to help us shape Europe.
Ladies and gentlemen, as one of the ten countries joining the European Union, Lithuania brings with it the same historical baggage of culture, conflict and history that the whole of Europe carries.
Lithuania has its own problems.
However, now is not the time to discuss how much progress has been made in resolving the problem of Kaliningrad or Ignalina or anything else.
We have all felt that the Europe we are building is not only a Europe of values, culture, history and adventure; it is also a Europe of the future, a Europe of hope.
It is to precisely these values that we have to respond.
But today we are treading a path with hope, a path with visions, a path which is expected to prove very interesting along the way.
However, if you study historical developments in conjunction with their mythological aspect, you will notice that they describe cultural, economic and other contacts between nations and citizens in the central and eastern Mediterranean basin in general.
Cyprus, the island of Aphrodite, or in the words of the modern poet, 'the golden green leaf tossed into the sea'.
Not new Europe and old Europe.
Today, the time has come for the European Parliament, pursuant to the Treaty on European Union and to its Rules of Procedure, to formalise its position on the application of these countries.
We are talking, in the case of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, about States and peoples that are hoping to find within our Union the respect for their identities and independence, the collective security and the economic prosperity that were denied them by the communist dictatorships that subjugated them for almost forty years.
It is therefore to be expected that questions are asked and that fears grow about the challenge of bringing together two worlds which, unfortunately, have experienced such different levels of development in recent decades.
It must also be emphasised, however, especially at this time of uncertainty created by the Iraq crises and also at a time when confidence in our capabilities is waning, that the accession of ten new countries is solid evidence of Europe's vitality, which clearly demonstrates its political will to respond positively and democratically to the challenges that history sets for it.
Mr President, Hungary submitted its application to join the European Union on 31 March 1994.
Accession negotiations for were opened four years later, in March 1998.
From the outset Hungary had been one of the applicant countries where progress, not least in adapting to the requirements of the internal market, had been most striking, and this had helped to maintain the dynamic of the negotiations.
Despite maintaining a high public-sector deficit, the Hungarian economy is characterised by one of the highest rates of growth in Europe, by the lowest inflation recorded over the ten previous years and by a relatively low rate of unemployment.
This exceptional economic performance undoubtedly counted in Hungary's favour in the negotiations on accession, especially if we bear in mind the speed at which this country has adapted to mechanisms befitting a market economy, after forty years of central planning, and the fact that Hungary has paid the social price that this process entailed for the most disadvantaged.
In the sensitive areas of competition policy for example, or of cultural and audiovisual policy, or even on budgetary and financial issues, amongst others, we have seen the ongoing efforts that both the Commission and the Hungarian authorities have made in an attempt to overcome the difficulties.
In the resolutions adopted over recent years, Parliament has given prominence to a number of recommendations, in particular those aimed at encouraging the introduction of reforms in the areas of integration of the Roma peoples, improving the social dialogue, efforts to combat corruption and organized crime, strengthening an independent judiciary, increased concern to reduce regional disparities, and, not least, scrupulous adherence to rules governing public-sector tendering.
We have insisted on the need to establish an effective institutional and administrative framework for programming and implementing the structural and cohesion funds.
Mr President, we have listened to various Hungarian political leaders proclaim that Hungary is determined to move forward on the road to integration, and wants the Union to be strong and united, not forgetting the need to preserve national identities and cultures.
Ladies and gentlemen, the people, as always, shall be sovereign and shall determine their own laws, which we must fully respect.
As for our role, I am sure that Hungary, one of the oldest of European States, will regain its place in Europe, a place that has always been reserved for it, as a member of the European Union on 1 May 2004.
This is why, in my capacity as rapporteur for Hungary in this assembly, I am honoured and happy to ask my fellow Members to support this application, which concludes years of efforts and work and which opens up prospects for a new Europe.
Like all of us, I am witnessing an historic process that will change the EU permanently.
Parliament was therefore right to be mindful, even before the Council and Commission were, that Europe should not again be divided and that each candidate country should be considered individually on the basis of the progress each has made.
I am pleased that today I, together with the entire Austrian People's Party delegation, can give our assent to the results of Copenhagen in the Brok report and to all the candidate countries.
This small island state is a country in an exposed geopolitical position, one that has been profoundly marked by European culture and history.
Like all the candidate countries, Malta, too, has had to make far-reaching political and economic decisions in order to meet the Copenhagen criteria.
That has, however, resulted and is resulting in a modernisation of the economic and social structures of a country that has made and will make the leap from a sheltered island society to a social economy able to face competition in the European internal market.
It was the first country to hold a referendum, with an extraordinary turnout, voting 53% in favour of EU accession.
The Accession Treaty still needs to be ratified in parliament.
The forthcoming election on 12 April will decide whether there will be a parliamentary majority in favour of it.
I very much hope that we will be able to welcome Malta as an EU member on 1 May 2004.
The enlargement of the EU to take in the Baltic States also has a Northern and a Central European dimension, however.
Today, our country has the longest external border in the Union and yet we lie at the centre of Europe.
Today, through the delegation to which I belong, and through the Austrian federal government at the summit in Athens, it will be voting in favour of this enlargement.
Above all, we are looking for good neighbourly relations with the countries with which we were associated historically for hundreds of years and from which we were separated as a result of two World Wars and the cruel division of Europe in the Cold War.
I am canvassing towards this end on behalf of my delegation and give its assent, in the European Parliament, to the accession applications of the ten candidate countries.
Of all the countries returning to Europe, Poland has a particular role and particular importance, not just because it is the largest country but because it is there, in Poland - as Commissioner Verheugen pointed out, and we would like to thank him for the immense amount of excellent work he has done - that the battle for freedom from tyranny started which subsequently served as an example and encouragement to other countries.
Without Poland and - I would like, if I may, to remember here a leader who is now forgotten - without Lech Walesa, the Berlin Wall might still be standing.
It would be difficult at such an important moment for Parliament not to look back over the four years of accession negotiations, negotiations which were often problematic, often complex, because of the difference and disparity between the respective levels of development.
However, if the Poles have succeeded in overcoming the difficulties and reaching the end of the negotiations today, it is thanks to a huge effort on the part of society, thanks to its enthusiasm and to the commitment of the successive Warsaw governments, all of which, all of them, irrespective of their political creed, have fought to achieve the common strategic objective of their country's accession to the European Union.
At this juncture, I must say that we continue to feel some concern, as I have already said on past occasions, regarding the transparency of the public administration, corruption and the independence of the media, but I am sure that Poland will be able to succeed in these areas too.
We have sent messages of support and encouragement and occasional warnings, but we have always been consistent and determined, and that is why the citizens of the candidate countries have viewed the European Parliament as a credible assembly which is seeking to reintegrate the part of Europe which had been cut off so that justice is done.
The decision we took to open up Europe to the countries which were already part of the continent was a political decision, not an economic decision, not a decision based on figures and calculations which would not have justified this process, but a decision based on the ideal of justice.
In this connection, it pains me to see that some of the Members of this House do not feel this need to see justice done and are preparing to abstain from the vote today or even to vote against accession, for reasons which we may be able to respect but which I, at least, cannot endorse.
That would be to deny the candidate countries a right which, thank goodness - and I repeat, thank goodness - some of the countries of the Union have exercised freely.
The countries bordering on the Mediterranean, which are the gateway to Central Europe, have played a major role in this process.
The main problem during the preparatory phase was speeding up the judicial procedures and resolving the problems left over from the previous regime.
Thus, Slovenia's situation was similar to but less complex than that of some of the other candidate countries.
The international organisations' reports on Slovenia talk about a functioning market economy and observance of the Copenhagen criteria setting the standards to be achieved in the field of fundamental rights.
The best solution would be to delete the paragraph.
If anyone had asked me at the time whether the country would accede to the EU at the same time as the other Visigrad 4 countries, I would probably have said no.
I have received the occasional complaint about that, but the country has, perhaps more than others, been made aware of the importance of the values on which the European Union is founded.
After the 1998 elections, which marked the end of the Meciar era, there has been a significant improvement thanks to the introduction of a directly elected president, the democratic decentralisation of the administration, the increased independence of the judiciary and the measures to improve the position of minorities.
Other candidates are also wrestling with them, but their seriousness is sometimes underestimated.
We should therefore welcome the fact that the Slovak Government has also submitted a serious approach to the European Parliament.
We have been given assurances on the basis of which we can always call the new Member States to account after their accession.
The internal debate on this subject is at times so radical that I sometimes wonder whether people have actually taken the trouble to find out what the principles of the social market economy are really about.
So neither my last report, again today, nor the explanatory note I wrote with my recommendation are completely free from criticism.
I admire the way in which one of the youngest states in Europe has been able to wrest itself from a complicated past and the speed with which it has brought itself up to the same level as the others.
I fully support the general approach taken by this report and the encouragement it contains.
In my own report, however, I have taken the liberty of dwelling at greater length on certain factors which are fundamental to the creation of the internal market.
Impartiality is essential in these areas.
Secondly, the free movement of persons, which is a cornerstone of the internal market, is all too often blocked, in particular by the lack of recognition of occupational qualifications.
This vigilance is possible thanks to the measures established at the appropriate times by the European Commission over previous periods and following accession.
I would also invite the Commission to update us on progress in these matters in its final report, due to be presented in November 2003.
Sadly, the past few days have been coloured by the conflict in Iraq, by the positions taken by governments in Central and Eastern Europe, and, lastly, by the problem of funding enlargement.
There are a few specific details to be added to these general remarks, particularly as regards the choice of 1 May 2004 as the accession date.
We consider it right and proper that the new Commission is to take up its duties quite soon afterwards, in November 2004.
We deeply regret, however, that all of these decisions have been taken without Parliament having been consulted at all.
We call on the Council, as a matter of urgency, to provide Parliament with early information on developments in the accession process and to involve us in good time.
Firstly, it is important to expand the debate on the European Union's borders, which has recently been launched.
Furthermore, it will determine the Union's future action, in accordance with the possibilities offered by its new shape in terms of expanding the process of integration.
Thirdly, enlargement is a challenge in terms of combating different forms of organised crime, such as terrorism, human trafficking or drug trafficking.
This will allow the Member States to quickly acquire the levels of guarantee currently enjoyed in all the Member States.
Finally, I would like to make a special appeal for the active participation of the ten candidate countries in the work on the Convention on the Future of Europe.
To sum up, in order to achieve the objective and for enlargement to be successful we must fulfil other objectives which are no less important, such as promoting stability and security, involving all the Member States in its shaping and in the respect for Fundamental Rights laid down in the Charter, and explain European construction to the citizens.
In summary, to lay the foundations for a European identity which is constantly evolving, whose lowest common denominator is essential for the consistency and endurance of what we have been advocating for more than fifty years.
Mr President, your reality actually consists of many years of dreams.
I personally used to dream these dreams with Czech friends, and I am therefore extremely pleased that the Czech Republic will be one of the first ten countries to accede to the European Union.
This week we voted on the transit problems of Russians living in Kaliningrad.
At the time we thought: they all travel via Lithuania and we must reach agreement with Lithuania before Lithuania's accession becomes a reality, because this is also a border problem.
On this point, Lithuania has adjusted very well to the general pattern of European Union negotiations.
Cyprus cannot therefore be blamed for this and can be wholeheartedly welcomed as a Member State of the European Union as long as the country is willing to continue to honour UN mediation as it has been doing in the past.
Turkey's position makes us feel all the more gloomy, because Turkey now has a black mark against an important political criterion in this area.
I would like to call on Turkey to continue to meet the political criteria of Copenhagen, including in respect of this issue, because only then can we regard it as a true candidate Member State that is welcome in our ranks.
I am therefore immensely proud to stand here as my group's Vice-President responsible for enlargement at the moment that this vision becomes a reality.
Twelve years ago six of the ten candidate countries did not even exist as sovereign nation states.
The Socialist Group will be saying 'yes' to the ten countries.
This is not a romantic 'yes', it is a 'yes' which is a result of 15 years of profound economic and social change, 10 years of cooperation and preparation and more than 5 years of tough and difficult negotiations.
It is a 'yes' which is a reward for the immense hardships suffered by the peoples of the candidate countries during their painful economic and social transition.
It is a 'yes' which confirms that all ten countries have succeeded in fulfilling the political, economic and legislative criteria for membership of the Union through their persistence and hard work.
It is a 'yes' that will see the EU enriched by the enormous cultural and intellectual traditions of the new countries and by their unique political and historical heritage: the battling Baltics - David to the Soviet Union's Goliath; the Prague spring; the Hungarian uprising; Solidarity; brave Malta - the George Cross island, freedom's bastion in the darkest days of the Second World War; and people like my good friend, Vytenis Andriukaitis, from Lithuania, whose family led the resistance to the Soviets and suffered in exile and for whom now this represents the end of that nightmare.
The candidates must continue to strive to be ready for the obligations of membership, particularly in the fight against corruption.
The European model of cooperation must therefore be successful.
That was certainly the case when the Wall came down in 1989, when enthusiasm for accession in Eastern European countries was exceptionally great.
It is particularly disappointing that the Council tried at the very last moment to undermine the democratic rights of this Parliament.
There is a lot of talk of corruption, although, it must be said, not only in the new Member States.
All these shortcomings also exist in the old Member States.
I think that we should take this opportunity to significantly improve administration right across the whole of the European Union.
I hope that we are on the threshold of creating a Europe that is great and prosperous, and as far as Parliament is concerned, I think that it will cooperate fully in this.
Mr President, the enlargement reports are on the table.
On 4 December 1989, I apologised on behalf of the Government of the German Democratic Republic to the peoples of Czechoslovakia for the events of August 1968, but at the same time I did not forget the 9 May 1945.
Although I have every sympathy for social abuses, I do think that it is a bit steep that the best paid officials in Europe should be expressing themselves in this way on a day on which we are welcoming the worst paid and the least prosperous people in Europe.
Today, however, we are voting for the future of half a billion people, for a future of peace and peaceful coexistence in tolerance and in diversity.
It is a nation without a country, and its identity and culture must be respected and viewed as a driving force for social and economic development.
We are arguing in favour of recognising all languages and all minorities, but we must also continue to recognise the rights of the speakers of historic languages to use them in their own regions and to have them recognised, including as a basis for education.
This not only applies to the accession countries but also to our own Member States.
Recognition of the small ones is our guarantee of democracy in Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently experiencing both enlargement and war.
Europe also represents the law, the people's law, together with Grotius, Vattel, Pufendorf, Molina and Suarèz.
Poland, however, is taking part in a war in violation of international law and the Charter.
Europe represents, in particular, Emmanuel Kant's law of nations.
The Baltic States, however, which are neighbours of Königsberg, home of the philosophy of the categorical imperative, are failing to respect this law.
Warsaw has forgotten Europe's memories.
That would mean a Europe of adventure with adventurer governments, which, doubtless, is all very well, but these are not the values laid down for us by Article 2 of the Constitution.
Mr President, now that the European Union is to be enlarged by ten new Member States, it is not only an historic moment for the EU, it is a fact that also raises the issue of what our common core values are.
These core values are indispensable to our joint construction of an EU that is to be enlarged to include 25 Member States.
I want to say something about Cyprus, which is the country to which I had a special commitment when it came to enlargement towards the east.
I wish to protest against the fact that the Turkish occupation of northern Cyprus, or 37% of the island, in actual fact threatens the EU as a peace project.
We must never lose sight of how unreasonable it would be for Turkey to be allowed to become a member of the European Union while it continued to occupy a new Member State, in the form of Cyprus.
Cyprus and Nicosia have been divided for 29 years.
A generation of politicians in the Fifties - Konrad Adenauer, Robert Schuman, Jean Monnet, Alcide De Gasperi, Paul-Henri Spaak and others - had the courage and the vision to establish a European Community that would overcome a thousand years of antagonism between Germany and France and begin the unification of Europe in the West.
We, the present political generation, have the opportunity, for the first time in a thousand years, to bring the continent together by peaceful means and on a voluntary basis into a European Union, a union of freedom, peace and prosperity.
The resolution of the European Parliament on the reunification of Europe will be adopted in one day, but the unification of the whole of Europe is a process, the task of an entire generation of politicians.
Its accomplishment demands strenuous efforts, not only on the part of the acceding countries but also on that of the present Member States, for the Union is not simply becoming larger - it is also becoming a different Union.
As they themselves are well aware, they are not only entering a market but are also acceding to a union whose desire and obligation it is to become a political union.
We reject it overall for the simple reason that we reject the very principle of enlargement.
First of all, a logical reason: to us, as sovereignists, the current integration of Europe is so contrary to the interests, principles and civilisations of the nations and people of Europe, so clearly incapable of speaking with one voice in the world, as shown in the Iraqi affair, so poorly organised, weighed down by bureaucracy and, what is worse, by feudality - economic and financial feudality of all kinds - that we have come to wish that our country, France, would free itself from the Union.
Lastly, the President of the French Republic, Jacques Chirac, said, quite specifically and quite rightly, in my opinion, that the Eastern European countries and, in particular, their oligarchies, only want to move from one empire to another and essentially wish to become part of the US empire, which is the exact opposite of what we believe to be the European Union's only raison d'être.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, days such as today are an occasion to look back as well as forward.
We look back to the years of radical change from 1989 to 1991, when the nations of the former Warsaw Pact strove successfully to secure their freedom and independence.
We look back on a difficult period of transformation, which is now giving way to a period of stability in our continent, a political stability that used to be almost inconceivable.
In this context, it is quite rare to hear the applicant countries being acclaimed for having largely fulfilled the political criteria of Copenhagen right from the start of the negotiations.
I think of the referendum of 3 October 1989, when 53% of the Latvian electorate voted in favour of amendments to the country's nationality laws, amendments which corresponded with European standards and were therefore beneficial to minorities such as the large community of native Russian-speakers.
Even now we must cast our eyes beyond the external borders.
The draft declaration agreed by Parliament and the Council includes, in its Paragraph 1, a means of derogating from the Treaty, which I hope will safeguard Parliament's rights.
The simple answer would have been to withdraw Annex XV, but that has not been done, and as long as it remains, then I personally have a real problem with this.
It is bad enough to see the Council trying to take unilateral action on an adjustment of the financial perspective from 2004 to 2006, but to see the inclusion of a guaranteed ceiling on agricultural expenditure up to the year 2013 is totally unacceptable.
That the other Member States agreed to this in Copenhagen was hard to believe, but for this now to be endorsed in the Treaty is just a step too far.
I cannot therefore vote for enlargement because to do so is to accept Annex XV within the Treaty and that is impossible for me.
Mr President, applicant countries all have one thing in common: they are all very young democracies.
But for the people it means a return to the very system that they have just left - centralised, undemocratic control.
This can only lead to discord and strife in the years to come. (Mixed reactions) I had the privilege two weeks ago on Sunday to be in Ljubljana for the result of a referendum where 90% of the people - not the elite - voted 'yes' to Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the spread of democracy and the establishment of pluralism and the rule of law in the eastern part of Central Europe are common objectives not only of the region itself but of the entire continent.
Today this objective of our entire continent has been achieved, which makes this a momentous day.
In 1956, Hungary bravely rose up against dictatorship.
Decades later, at a time when the Warsaw Pact still existed, East German citizens took part in a pan-European lakeside picnic by the Fertö Tó, or Neusiedler See, an event which our fellow MEPs Otto von Habsburg and Bernd Posselt had helped to organise, before striking out again on the road to freedom, and it was Hungarian border guards who stood aside and let them pass.
Shortly afterwards, the Hungarian Foreign Minister, together with his Austrian counterpart, Alois Mock, cut through the Iron Curtain.
That was the first step in a process which culminated in the fall of the Berlin Wall.
In the case of some countries, our 'yes' will be more muted, more hesitant.
And so I shall say 'yes' ten times over today, but my clearest and most spontaneous 'yes' will be reserved for Hungary.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a unique opportunity today to bind the bulk of Europe into a single political entity for the first time.
We must not deny this opportunity to the peoples of Europe, for all the people of this continent are entitled to attain freedom, peace and prosperity within a political community - and I stress the words 'political community' - almost 15 years after the collapse of Communism.
I know what the Iron Curtain meant, and I am also well aware of what an external border of the European Union means today for those on both sides of the border.
Even though the governments of some EU Member States have made it difficult for me through their illegal actions in relation to Parliament, and even though many of the applicant countries' governments have made it difficult for me by supporting an illegal war, I shall cast an unequivocal 'yes' vote, just like all the other Social Democrats from Austria, for I am convinced that the door to the European Union must be opened to the peoples of Eastern Europe and of Cyprus, though it is still divided, and Malta.
Mr President, I would like to start by thanking Commissioner Verheugen, who has been most assiduous in following the enlargement process.
The most recent position adopted by the Budget Council is evidence of a completely opposite trend and is to be deplored.
I therefore call upon the ten new Member States to stand shoulder to shoulder with Parliament in advocating a different line from that taken by the governments of the current Member countries, which have a pessimistic view of the Union.
Dear people of Slovenia, dear people of the other nine acceding countries, help us to build new European institutions in which we can all be equal and develop with full respect for the dignity of the individual.
Mr President, Commissioner, in a few moments, we shall vote on the ten Accession Treaties of the new Member States of the Union.
This is a huge step, and I am happy to be experiencing this moment, which is an extension of the long accession process to the European institutions that began 12 years ago, when Hungary was the first post-communist country to join the Council of Europe.
Like many other Members, however, I feel a kind of vertigo on the verge of taking this decisive step, particularly because the state of the Union itself is far from satisfactory.
Mr President, the June Movement wants to allow the candidate countries to decide for themselves whether they wish to be part of the EU.
The agreement would force the candidate countries to sell agricultural land and summer houses, even though the price of land in the Netherlands is 30 times what it is in Poland.
The new countries would have to pay the full quota, while my own country, rich though it is, was given an 80% rebate in the first year.
The Treaty of Nice and the EU regulations have not been published in the languages of the candidate countries.
It is a democratic scandal that the candidate countries are in no position to know what they are voting on and that the Commission devises propaganda instead of making factual information available.
Those of us in the rich countries should be more generous towards our poor neighbours so that they might have something to thank us for and so that I might not just vote in favour but do so with gratitude while welcoming a Europe of democracies.
Mr President, we stand today at the brink of an historic process as we vote to finally reunite in democracy, peace and prosperity our divided continent of Europe, with the accession of ten new members.
The EU will now have a GDP of over USD 10 trillion.
This small but proudly independent new country has made huge progress, since the Velvet Divorce ten years ago, in modernising its economy from a command one to a functioning market.
It has reformed its system of government and civic infrastructure and sensibly accommodated its problems with its Roma and Hungarian minorities.
I deplore the actions of those in this House who voted against certain candidate countries joining the EU because of their assistance in the war effort.
We must ensure that this factor is not overlooked in the Commission's new framework document for relations with our new European neighbours of Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, which have a legitimate right to join the Union in future if they so wish.
Lastly, as a British Conservative, I welcome in particular Malta and Cyprus, two Commonwealth countries whose historically rich and entrepreneurial cultures will provide a new and valued contribution to the Union.
For this reason, let me state quite clearly that if we - a whole group of fellow Members and myself - deliver a critical vote on the Schröder report today, we are neither rejecting enlargement nor spurning the Czech people but are protesting, as people protested at the time, against injustice, against an injustice that still persists, against a serious infringement of human rights and its perpetuation through the continuing discriminatory effects of unjust decrees.
As a community rooted in the rule of law, we must ensure that unjust decrees are not brought into our legal system in the same way that viruses are introduced into computer systems.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the stands which have been taken are the best possible expression of the historic importance of this moment, which is why I do not think there is any need for me to add a single word to what everyone has said about enlargement and how important it is.
Allow me one last attempt to appeal to those honourable Members who still harbour doubts by putting this one point to them: in thirty years' time, no one will remember what Parliament and the Council have been arguing about during the last two weeks.
But in thirty years' time the decision taken here today will still be remembered. (Loud sustained applause) The debate is closed.
WRITTEN STATEMENTS (RULE 120) In principle, we support the enlargement of the European Union, provided that this is the wish of the peoples of the applicant countries.
In the current context of enlargement, two negative aspects of the negotiations must be highlighted: the discriminatory way in which the applicant countries are treated, particularly in the areas of finance and agriculture, and the consequences of enlargement for Portugal.
Although we welcome the increase of around EUR 500 million, achieved as a result of the pressure exerted by the European Parliament, this sum is clearly inadequate for taking us towards economic and social cohesion.
We therefore have the medium-term prospect of reductions in the Structural Funds and in farm aid for Portugal, when all known studies state that whereas Germany will gain the most, our country will lose the most, given our remoteness and given the greater competition we now face from countries which offer lower salaries and a more highly-skilled workforce.
The most recent data produced by the Commission clearly show that, of all countries, Portugal has the weakest production structure and the most serious socio-economic shortcomings, which means that it could suffer very damaging consequences unless due care is taken to protect its interests in accession negotiations.
The euphoria of this momentous decision, however, must not cause us to lose sight of the current state of EU policies and of the challenges that lie ahead.
For years the Greens have been campaigning for enlargement and consolidation of the EU.
The position adopted by representatives of the governments of some applicant countries has also been surprising.
As far as the Iraq conflict is concerned, what applies to Spain also applies to Poland: other political solutions must be found at the next elections.
I should like to inform the House that on behalf of the 15 Member States this morning, at a meeting of Coreper, the declaration was formally and unanimously adopted by the Council.
We are aware of the painstaking work which has been put into this over the recent weeks by our colleagues - work which would have been unnecessary if the Council, in the first instance, had not unilaterally stepped outside the Interinstitutional Agreement.
recognises that peace and security have been crucial factors in the decision of the candidate countries to join the European Union and that special responsibilities consequently lie with the Union to strengthen transatlantic ties on the basis of European strength and equal rights.' I can imagine that we would then be able to lay to rest the misgivings others have, and come to a common position on this.
Mr President, my delegation would like to protest at the services' ruling that Amendment 8 is inadmissible.
Finally, it will save the European taxpayer EUR 150 million a year. (Mixed reactions) Mr Tannock, the ruling of inadmissibility is a dispute that you have with me and not with the services.
You are entirely free to state your position as you wish, but this is about dates and calendars, not about texts and preferences regarding location. (Parliament's calendar of part-sessions for 2004 was thus established) Mr President, the consequence of this vote is that next year we will have only ten plenary part-sessions and not eleven. (Loud applause) May this be a signal to the European Convention.
We want to determine our own seat. (Loud applause) I should point out that if I interpreted the vote correctly, we have removed the session that had been proposed for the end of April and 1 May 2004.
The European institutions simply replicate the lack of democratic control of state institutions.
Representatives are indeed elected, but I would challenge the House to name a Member State of the European Union in which elected institutions exercise real control over the police and the army hierarchy, or a State where the population as a whole exercises such control, which is far more important.
The Danish positions would have prevented any democratic control by national parliaments, would have provided no prospect of keeping the citizens informed and would have consolidated the centralised approach to decision-making.
The rapporteur himself explained in his report that the proposals ignored all requests and proposals tabled by Parliament in the aim of genuinely increasing its democratic control and powers over Europol.
Particularly after the attacks in New York on 11 September 2001, the fear of terrorism was so great that all kinds of suggestions were made which had no place in a democracy.
Fortunately, the panic has peaked, and such authoritarian initiatives are often rejected by a majority of this Parliament.
The Council must get out of that habit.
These are premises that take their inspiration solely from imposing a federalist ideological agenda on the attempts made by the Council, using the current institutional framework and the framework regulated by the Treaties, to make real progress in this area.
Furthermore, if any subject calls for the utmost prudence and cooperation between Member States, it is precisely that of the exercise, powers and monitoring of transnational police activity.
We might not like the current pillar-based structure, but, while it exists - and this is the structure that exists - this is the framework in which we must work - and work responsibly.
In our view, however, issues of police cooperation must remain within the competence of the States and under their control, together with all issues relating to the movement of persons and immigration.
We were therefore unable to endorse the von Boetticher report. . (PT) The observations I made in the explanation of vote on the Turco report also apply in this case.
It is both possible and necessary to move ahead within the current framework and this is where we ought to participate responsibly and, incidentally, keeping to the method of taking small steps, since this is the method that has ensured the success of European integration.
The radical approach that has been adopted is extremely negative and clearly disregards the interests of the European citizens.
My concerns are not allayed by the result of the trialogue, which was intended at least to limit the damage that the Council has done to democracy in the EU.
The Council, though, has already demonstrated that it is acting against Parliament.
First and foremost, Europe must try to solve its own problems before taking the decision to enlarge.
Secondly, the accession of the new Member States must be made conditional upon the results of referendums in the current Member States, and thirdly, the fact is that the new Member States are not yet ready for this enlargement.
I would furthermore like to underline the fact that this enlargement is coming at a time when Europe has never been as divided as it is now.
It is essential that Europe develop its own identity in that area.
To conclude, let me point out that there are still far too many socio-economic differences between the European Union and the candidate Member States.
Today, Mr President, I too voted in favour of the accession of the Czech Republic.
I would no longer have been able to look my friends and relatives in Prague in the face if I had voted against them joining us.
I know as a German that even we, who overran almost all our neighbours in wartime, regained the esteem and respect of all by not repressing these aspects of our history or treating them as merely relative.
Mr President, I voted for the accession of all these Eastern and Central European countries and the accession of Malta and Cyprus because I hold out great hopes of having, in the future, a Parliament with a greater number of representatives of pensioners and pensioners' parties from these Member States.
Therefore, while I would like to express my heartfelt sympathy to them, I hope and pray that the future Parliament, including the Members from the Member States, will guarantee the citizens, starting with European Union employees, a peaceful future in which the elderly are duly respected.
Mr President, I abstained during the various votes and voted against the Brok report.
I did not therefore vote for assent concerning the Accession Treaty for 10 new Member States to the Union.
I voted as I did because I have become convinced that separating the process of the geographical enlargement of the Union from that of deepening its institutions is the unfortunate result of current and future Member States becoming resigned to a weaker Europe with a fossilised institutional system.
The enlarged European Union will be obliged to operate under the provisions of the Treaty of Nice.
Mr President, as a European federalist and a Catalan independentist I abstained on the votes concerning the accession of the 10 new Member States, even though my colleagues in the European Free Alliance are in favour.
Allow me to explain the reasons for my vote.
Lastly, the stance of most of these new Member States on the terrible war in Iraq appears to put a question mark over the whole process of European integration.
There is a danger that the Europe we are committing ourselves to will be an enlarged Europe but not a strengthened one.
A further elaboration is provided in the ten-point explanation of vote submitted in writing by SOS Democracy.
The institutional and financial provision for enlargement is not good.
There is a real risk of losing ground as regards political integration, and financial programming is patently inadequate.
At the earliest, the latter will be adopted after a short IGC in the wake of the Convention, and before 1 May 2004.
From now on the new entrants will fight alongside us for the future of the Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, being a farmer in Lower Austria, and having myself managed for forty-three years - right up to the rending of the Iron Curtain - a farm on the border, it was with great conviction that I voted today for the accession of ten new Member States and for the Brok Report.
I know that, for agriculture, enlargement means not only competition, but also opportunity, and that Austrian farmers will take up these challenges, and do so on the basis of the measures taken in the run-up to accession.
I have therefore cast my vote in favour of a peaceful, tolerant, and social future for our children and grandchildren.
The applicant countries should have been offered more flexible conditions, including different types of association agreements with mutual influence and mutual obligations instead of the colonial style EEA-agreement.
Membership should have been offered with variable geometry, lasting derogations, long-term derogations and derogations dependent on the future economic development towards cohesion, fully taking into account the different levels of economic development.
The applicant countries should be allowed to decide on their own regarding the buying and selling of agricultural land and second houses, at least until their incomes are comparable to ours.
Waiting for agricultural reform and a fair deal, the applicant countries should be able to have the amounts provided for in the agricultural budgets as lump sums, instead of being bound to use the money in the silly, wasteful and inefficient way we have done.
Instead of paying full contributions from the first day of membership, they should at least have been offered the five years' rebate that was offered to the UK, Denmark and Ireland, or free membership until they reach a certain income.
Many civil servants from the applicant countries will now be offered lucrative jobs in the EU institutions with salaries far above the salaries offered to their own prime ministers.
Also, the treaty resulting from the Convention should be adopted by an IGC with the eastern countries as full members.
The governments and the EU institutions should not be allowed to interfere with biased information before the referendums.
I hope that the signature of the Accession Treaty will represent the final unification of our continent, leaving behind the wars which desolated our peoples and drew up borders by force.
The new and strengthened Union will be a continent with a shared destiny of peace, democracy and freedom.
Solidarity - This unprecedented enlargement brings new challenges for the Union.
We will need an even greater spirit of solidarity in all our common policies, and we will have to strengthen the institutional capacities of the Union.
The current and future Members will have to make the greatest possible effort, replacing national egotism with Community solidarity in order to find, as the Treaties demand, a united European voice in world political fora.
This is an unprecedented action which constitutes a serious attack on the budgetary competences of our House and the Interinstitutional Agreement of 1999. . (FR) The only question put to the House concerned assent to the request for the accession of 10 new countries to the European Union.
On the other hand, we are totally opposed to the spirit and the letter of the draft treaty the European institutions seek to impose on them.
Regarding the content of this treaty, it formalises the unfair divide between the richer and poorer parts of Europe.
We all know that the last two to three months have been an enduring exercise for political leaders within the EU.
But the enlargement of the European Union is a real success story.
We all have a right to be proud to be in a position today to formally approve the Accession Treaties for ten countries seeking to join the European Union.
This historic process will have a positive impact for the actual cohesion of the European Union itself.
I am hopeful that the ten applicant countries will be in a position to fully join the European Union on May 1st 2004 next. (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) This is one of the most important issues to be dealt with by Parliament in the last few years.
We now have the opportunity to revitalise the process and bring a positive message to the peoples of Eastern Europe.
Lastly, in giving my support to this report and the accession process, I also wish to see the accession countries, national parliaments and governments having the same voting rights at the European Convention as the existing Member States of the Union.
Moreover, the Community we longed for and worked towards for 50 years will not survive this enlargement, but will be replaced by a bland and featureless Union.
I voted against in the case of the Czech Republic because I find its overall stand on the issue of war with Iraq and on the question of the Bene?
This is an historic day for Europe.
Parliament's initiatives have been taken up neither by Commissioner Verheugen, who is responsible for these matters, nor by the German Government.
In order for the stage we have reached today to really represent a reunification of Europe it is essential that the Union acquires a Constitution which guarantees the effective and democratic functioning of its institutions and its political dimension.
Only in that way will we ensure that Europe continues to be the dream of freedom and well-being which the countries we have said yes to today have signed up to.
It is essential that we do not forget the profound significance of the European idea and that we confirm the continued existence of those values which have made the union of the continent possible; the supremacy of the human being and respect for their dignity, solidarity, social justice and the quest for the common good. . (DE) Today's vote on the accession of ten Central and Eastern European states sees us laying the foundation on which the historical division of Europe into East and West will be overcome.
My 'yes' to the accession of Cyprus, Malta, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is coupled with the expectation that the acquis communautaire will be adopted without reservation, and given life, as it applies to the area of equal opportunities for women and men.
I will not deny that I found it very difficult to say 'yes' to the accession of the Republic of Poland, which, along with the United Kingdom, is a participant in war against Iraq, a war of aggression and contrary to international law.
I therefore see it as my responsibility as a German social democrat to set today's European date of 9 April 2003 against the nationalist date of 1 September 1939, at the same time hoping for peace and prosperity for all and for a European social model based on partnership. . (DE) I did not vote in favour of the Brok Report, because at least one of its paragraphs does not make adequately clear mention of the Council's blatant breach of the law.
As Members of the European Parliament we should rejoice in having played a part in this process, and commit ourselves to ensuring its success.
Between 1990 and 1999 EUR 600 billion was invested to finance recovery in the former East Germany.
The European Council is only prepared to allocate 0.15% of the Union's GDP to enlargement.
Present-day Czech politicians must wonder why they did so badly, with 489 votes in favour, 39 votes against, and 37 abstentions.
My yes in the vote today is therefore a signal to today's young Czechs, who will, it may be hoped, soon be calling the political tune in Germany's neighbouring republic.
I wish the present holders of political office in the Czech Republic much joy from the arguments in their own country as to why the vote in the European Parliament in Strasbourg was such a poor result for them.
As was apparent from the crime against Iraq, the differences between certain Euro-unionist imperialists and their American buddies in the war lie not in the end but in the means.
These social problems were caused by the policies adopted over the last 10 years in order to meet the criteria for accession.
We are voting for the accession of Malta, Slovenia, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland.
The big bang was an unjust procedure that put unnecessary pressure on the internal cohesion of the Union as well as on the objective assessment of the candidate Member States.
Every candidate Member State must be evaluated on its own merits.
As far as we are concerned, therefore, accession before or after 2007 is indeed possible.
I hope this process will commence soon. . (DE) Never before have I seen so many Members of the European Parliament put massive pressure by their national party leaderships.
That is what we promised our electorates in 1999.
That is why the EU can work only if the Convention and the governments decide on a real constitution, one that is democratic and transparent.
The reason why I voted against the Brok Report is that it presents us with a world of illusions.
That Europe is put behind us as we vote today to reunite our continent in peace, democracy and prosperity.
There have been complaints against Hungary and Cyprus for discrimination against homosexuals.
Cyprus could involve the European Union in a war against Turkey.
I believe that it is at least as important that these countries are being subjected to a neoliberal acquis, that public services are breaking down and large sections of the population are being condemned to the long-term perpetuation of the poverty that has arisen over the past ten years.
Yet it is the inhabitants of these countries, and no one else, who must determine whether they want to belong to the European Union.
I do not want to take that right away from them in order to protect ourselves or by knowing what is good for them better than they do themselves.
The calamitous division of Europe is being overcome, and Europe is being united in peace and freedom.
The peoples of Europe now have the opportunity to join together in shaping their future in freedom and under democracy.
My electoral district is in the Oberpfalz, a border region which shares some 140 kilometres of border with the Czech Republic, and one where many have built up a new life after being driven from their homes in Bohemia and Moravia.
I know how strong are the ties that bind these expellees to their former homes, and to family members and friends who still live in the Czech Republic and to whom the Czech 'Immunity Act' remains applicable. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (DE) I welcome the accession, on 1 May 2004, of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, as well as of Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia and the islands of Cyprus and Malta.
I rejoice to be able to be present at this historic moment.
I cast my vote against the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union.
Years ago, on the initiative of CSU/CDU MEPs, Parliament called on the Czech Republic to suspend the decrees and laws still in force, in so far as they related to the expulsion of specific ethnic groups from the former Czechoslovakia.
It is this background that makes it urgently necessary to complete this chapter of history.
The European Union is a community of laws and values, and one of its elementary obligations is that of protecting minorities.
This must be recognised by every country desirous of acceding to the European Union, and for the Czech Republic to ignore this fact is unacceptable.
Its deeper meaning was and still is that we hope to welcome the people of these countries into a well-formed entity, a community that unites its members' economies and has proclaimed its will to move towards closer and closer political cooperation and union between the states, nations and citizens of Europe.
We have no historic, moral, political or strategic right to refuse the freely and democratically formulated request of the ten nations to participate on an equal footing in the construction of this entity.
It must draw its strength solely from the diversity of the nations it encompasses. . (FR) I voted in favour of the treaty on the accession of the 10 new countries to the European Union.
The countries of Central and Eastern Europe wishing to accede to our Union have made tremendous efforts in order to join.
The enlargement of the European Union represents a gain both for the European Union and for the candidates for accession and is an indispensable prerequisite for peace, stability and prosperity in a reunited Europe.
It is with reference to this, though, that I would like to reiterate the urgent necessity of establishing, as soon as possible, an EU-wide harmonised system of common safety standards for all present and future EU Member States in the field of nuclear energy use.
My misgivings have nothing to do with these countries, but with the fact that the Treaty of Nice has not made the European Union sufficiently capable of enlargement.
As we do not yet know the outcome of the Convention or of the Treaty amendment resulting from it, any decision on enlargement is basically premature.
It would be irresponsible not to acknowledge that this delayed and uniform enlargement is now perceived as a threat rather than an opportunity by many in both East and West. . (NL) The European Parliament has today voted for the accession of ten new Member States to the European Union.
I regret that we, who for many years have been helping to prepare and encourage enlargement, have not revised our competence and decision-making mechanisms to make ourselves efficient and effective, both within the European Union and in the area of common foreign and security policy.
The accession countries and their populations have been preparing for this day for many years, in difficult conditions and with many sacrifices.
These efforts and the prospect of accession have brought stability and peace in Europe.
After all, political stability, peace and security create the conditions for all other policy objectives.
Since I have confidence in it, I am also expecting much of the next IGC and I can today vote for it ten times with conviction. (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (NL) I support the accession of the ten candidate countries today, in spite of the fact that some of them do not yet fully meet all the criteria.
Careful external control will have to be exercised on all these points.
I also very much regret that countries such as Poland - without proper European consultation - are taking part in the war in Iraq.
Yet I vote for enlargement today because citizens in candidate countries cannot fall victim to our negligence.
We voted for assent to the Accession Treaty for 10 new Member States to the European Union.
There could be no question of casting doubt over enlargement today, which was what really was at stake in the vote.
It does not, however, seem fair to make the candidate countries bear the consequences of our inability to take decisions and reform the European institutions.
As explained in my speech to the plenary I support the enlargement process and wish to see the applicant countries as part of the EU.
But the inclusion of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty means that voting for enlargement endorses its inclusion.
The worst part of Annex XV is that it enshrines in the Treaty the Agriculture ceiling from 2007 to 2013: the outcome of a shabby deal that was cobbled together by President Chirac and Chancellor Schröder, that was endorsed by the other Member States in Copenhagen and is now to be part of the Treaty.
Mr President, for me, as a German MEP, the reunification of Europe, for which we have voted today, is of comparable significance to the restoration of the unity of my own country.
I do, however, profoundly regret the Czech Republic's failure to annul the expulsion decrees and, in particular, the Immunity Act, which is contrary to every principle of law.
I have therefore declared my approval of the accession of the Czech Republic as well in the conviction that, if the Czech Republic becomes a Member State of the European Union, we will be able to represent better and more effectively the interests of the German expellees and of the German minority in the Czech Republic, to whom I feel a sense of obligation.
The Copenhagen Council set a limit of EUR 40.8 billion on transfers from the Union to the new members up to 2006.
In 1999 the Berlin Council had allocated 43 billion for the same time period, but for six countries.
The second is that the Immunity Act, which is current law in the Czech Republic, is an offence against human rights as understood both in Europe and throughout the world.
Thirdly, the European Union's human rights policy would cease to be credible if we were to accept a current law that exempts from punishment crimes committed against the German and Hungarian civilian population in the aftermath of the War.
Having, however, been brought up in a spirit of tolerance and forgiveness, there is one thing I can tell you, and that is that those who - to some extent justifiably - have voted today against the Czech Republic's accession because of the Bene?
Mr President, I voted for the report on the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, although a majority would have been obtained in this vote even without my contribution.
The Convention has not yet produced an outcome, let alone a commitment to the new treaty text being ratified as soon as possible.
This means that not all the conditions for the Czech Republic's accession to the EU have been complied with, so that we are unable to vote in favour of it doing so. . (DE) I voted to approve the Accession Treaties only under protest and out of solidarity with my future colleagues.
Despite the Commission's warnings and reproaches during the course of the negotiations, the Council has insisted on committing what is without doubt a breach of the law.
The Council's controversial retention of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty and consequent wholly unilateral alteration of the 2004-2006 financial framework amounts to a breach of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament and the Council.
Such behaviour by the Council puts an end to our loyal cooperation with it. . (DE) I approve the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU, even though its accession leaves open questions the resolution of which the European Parliament has demanded, in a spirit of reconciliation, for many years.
This is particularly true of what is termed the Immunity Act, No. 115 of 8 May 1946.
Any justification that this decree has for its existence will become more speedily and more lastingly obsolete in the EU's common system of law than it would in the event of this application for accession being refused. . (DE) I approve the accession of the Czech Republic because I take the view that the reunification of Europe and thus also the return of the Czechs to the European family must not be halted by the irresponsibility of those Czech politicians who have still not yet grasped how a modern state functions under the rule of law.
An essential part of my work in the European Parliament has to do with ensuring that human rights are secured, the rule of law defended and minorities protected.
It is compliance with these conditions - not only with those of the acquis communautaire - on which their ability to accede depends.
I hope that the citizens of the Czech Republic will, after their country's accession, gain a deeper understanding of the community of values and laws that is the EU. . (DE) I approve the accession of the Czech Republic because I take the view that the reunification of Europe and thus also the return of the Czechs to the European family must not be halted by the irresponsibility of those Czech politicians who have still not yet grasped how a modern state functions under the rule of law.
The reunification of Europe is an opportunity of historic significance.
This makes it all the more welcome that the Czech President, Vaclav Klaus, should, on 20 March 2003, state that the expulsion of Czechoslovakia's German population, and acts of violence against Germans even after the end of the war, were not acceptable from a present-day point of view.
It should be added that society in both countries has seen many efforts made towards a final reconciliation.
The attitude of the Czech Government and parliament is contrary to the spirit of reconciliation and of respect for human rights and the rule of law, which characterises European integration.
I would like to give voice to my personal hope that the imminent enlargement of the European Union will enable the Czech Government and parliament to reconsider their position, and that the necessary gestures and actions will follow. . (DE) Today, I have voted against the Czech Republic's application for accession to the European Union.
It is my conviction that the most important foundation for the unification of the European peoples is the unconditional obligation on the part of all to the principles of a state ruled by law.
The effect of this law is to accord general legitimacy to the gravest crimes and offences committed in the post-War era.
A decision in favour of accepting the Czech Republic as a Member State would also create a precedent that could be prayed in aid by potential future applicants.
Mr President, I shall now present the third part of my explanation of vote.
Mr President, I voted for the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Estonia because, as the only representative in the European Parliament of the Italian Pensioners' Party, I hope and pray that the next European Parliament will also include a representative of the Estonian Pensioners' Party, who I hope will be able to come to this House and help me to promote respect for the elderly in Europe's future. . (DE) I voted to approve the Accession Treaties only under protest and out of solidarity with my future colleagues.
Despite the Commission's warnings and reproaches during the course of the negotiations, the Council has insisted on committing what is without doubt a breach of the law.
The Council's controversial retention of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty and consequent wholly unilateral alteration of the 2004-2006 financial framework amounts to a breach of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament and the Council.
Such behaviour by the Council puts an end to our loyal cooperation with it.
Mr President, I have reached the fourth part of my explanation of vote.
The Union's decision-making process will not have been significantly improved, so blocking is only to be expected.
Mr President, it was with great enthusiasm that I voted for the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Cyprus.
This will give us more power to defend the interests of the elderly throughout Europe.
Today is an historic day for Cyprus, as well as for the European Union.
It has often suffered at the expense of decisions made by larger and more powerful nations.
I know that accession to the European Union is seen by many Cypriots as a path to security and stability and will lead to a situation where Cyprus is at the heart of decision-making in Europe, with a seat at the top table of European decision-makers.
I hope that the next few weeks will see the finalisation of the accession of Cyprus and that we will see this small island, which was once a victim in European politics, becoming an equal, respected and influential voice in shaping the future of our shared continent.
I am voting in favour of the accession of the Republic of Cyprus.
This is an important moment in the history of Cyprus.
The long-standing fight by all the Greek MEPs and many of their honourable friends has finally ended in success.
The occupation has actually been condemned both by the United Nations and by the European Union.
Despite the Commission's warnings and reproaches during the course of the negotiations, the Council has insisted on committing what is without doubt a breach of the law.
The Council's controversial retention of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty and consequent wholly unilateral alteration of the 2004-2006 financial framework amounts to a breach of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament and the Council.
Such behaviour by the Council puts an end to our loyal cooperation with it. . (NL) Regarding the accession of the ten current candidate countries, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party feels that these should actually have completed their preparations and that there should be individual country-by-country testing.
On 8 April I received a letter from Commissioner Verheugen saying that the Cyprus border, which is soon to be an external border of the Union and consequently of the Netherlands too, is sufficiently secure.
Instead of making this a condition of entry, and using the accession of Cyprus as a lever, the European Union contents itself with supposedly deploring the fact that it is opening its doors to a divided country.
Mr President, I will now proceed with the fifth instalment of my speech.
On many occasions the heads of state and government held forth that we needed to adapt the Union's decision-making structures and mechanisms before the current wave of enlargement, or any subsequent enlargement.
The signing of the Accession Treaties on 16 April will set enlargement in stone before the work on the Convention has been completed.
Mr President, I voted for the entry of Latvia into the European Union.
As the only representative of the Italian Pensioners' Party in this House, I hope and pray that, in the next European Parliament, expanded to include the Republic of Latvia too, among the representatives elected by the Latvians there will be a representative of the Pensioners' Party who, together with the - I hope, numerous - representatives of the pensioners' parties of all the states who will be entering the European Parliament for the first time in 2004, will be able to help to defend the interests of the elderly. . (DE) I voted to approve the Accession Treaties only under protest and out of solidarity with my future colleagues.
Despite the Commission's warnings and reproaches during the course of the negotiations, the Council has insisted on committing what is without doubt a breach of the law.
The Council's controversial retention of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty and consequent wholly unilateral alteration of the 2004-2006 financial framework amounts to a breach of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament and the Council.
Such behaviour by the Council puts an end to our loyal cooperation with it. - (NL) Regarding the accession of the ten current candidate countries, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party feels that candidate countries should actually have completed their preparations and that there should be individual country-by-country testing.
On 8 April I received a letter from Commissioner Verheugen saying that even the countries in which he himself identified the most failings, among them Latvia, will meet the Copenhagen criteria sufficiently at the time of accession.
In an interview with the Times, Peter Hain clearly stated that he is building an alliance with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe against any moves towards the creation of a European superstate.
The United Kingdom and other countries will therefore not hesitate to use their veto at the intergovernmental conference to ratify the conclusions of the Convention.
This veto risks destroying any suggestion of establishing qualified majority decision-making procedures for matters such as the common foreign and security policy, fiscal and budgetary policy, and economic and social policy.
Mr President, today, 9 April 2003, I voted for the entry of Lithuania into the European Union.
Moreover, I hope that a representative of the Lithuanian Pensioners' Party will join the European Parliament to support me in upholding the rights of all the elderly throughout Europe. . (DE) I voted to approve the Accession Treaties only under protest and out of solidarity with my future colleagues.
Despite the Commission's warnings and reproaches during the course of the negotiations, the Council has insisted on committing what is without doubt a breach of the law.
The Council's controversial retention of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty and consequent wholly unilateral alteration of the 2004-2006 financial framework amounts to a breach of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament and the Council.
Such behaviour by the Council puts an end to our loyal cooperation with it.
I would now like to make my last point, Mr President.
In view of the confused state of the European institutions I criticised a few moments ago, I believe an enlarged European Union can be no more than a large market.
Mr President, I voted for the entry of Hungary into the European Union.
Since there will be at least 200 million pensioners in the enlarged Europe, I hope that, when the Hungarian representatives join the European Parliament, it will be possible to have a number of MEPs which is proportional and proportionate to the number of pensioners in Europe.
I therefore hope that the pensioners of Hungary will send a representative to Parliament too, to help us protect the interests of the elderly throughout Europe more vigorously and more effectively. . (DE) I voted to approve the Accession Treaties only under protest and out of solidarity with my future colleagues.
Despite the Commission's warnings and reproaches during the course of the negotiations, the Council has insisted on committing what is without doubt a breach of the law.
The Council's controversial retention of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty and consequent wholly unilateral alteration of the 2004-2006 financial framework amounts to a breach of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament and the Council.
Such behaviour by the Council puts an end to our loyal cooperation with it.
Despite the Commission's warnings and reproaches during the course of the negotiations, the Council has insisted on committing what is without doubt a breach of the law.
The Council's controversial retention of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty and consequent wholly unilateral alteration of the 2004-2006 financial framework amounts to a breach of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament and the Council.
Such behaviour by the Council puts an end to our loyal cooperation with it. . (DE) I have today voted against the application by the Republic of Malta for accession to the European Union.
In the course of accession negotiations, Malta had flatly refused to fully implement the European Union's protection provisions in the form of the EU's bird protection directive, and managed to negotiate a transitional period permitting the Maltese to hunt birds up to the end of 2008.
These are legal fundamentals that a candidate for accession must acknowledge.
I cannot give my vote to a candidate country that, by providing combatant troops, is participating actively in an illegal, immoral and sordid war in Iraq, thereby not hesitating to break international law, and sharing in the responsibility for the murder of thousands of innocent civilians.
Today, after mature consideration and in complete accord with my conscience, I have voted 'no'.
The second is the participation of Polish soldiers in the war against Iraq, in a show of servile pro-Americanism and highly insolent anti-Europeanism.
Furthermore, Polish workers will have to wait seven years before they can work in the European Union, despite the juggling of the legal aspects of the issue.
Despite the Commission's warnings and reproaches during the course of the negotiations, the Council has insisted on committing what is without doubt a breach of the law.
The Council's controversial retention of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty and consequent wholly unilateral alteration of the 2004-2006 financial framework amounts to a breach of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament and the Council.
Such behaviour by the Council puts an end to our loyal cooperation with it. . (DE) I justify my vote against the accession of the Republic of Poland to the European Union at the present time by reference to the fact that Poland is the only one of the candidate countries whose elite troops are playing an active part in the war currently in progress in Iraq, which is contrary to international law. . (NL) Regarding the accession of the ten current candidate countries, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party feels that candidate countries should actually have completed their preparations and that there should be individual country-by-country testing.
On the question of whether all the countries met the criteria, there were doubts, which have been expressed repeatedly by the European Parliament.
On 8 April I received a letter from Commissioner Verheugen saying that even the countries in which he himself identified the most failings, among them Poland, will meet the Copenhagen criteria sufficiently at the time of accession.
Mr President, considering that a Pensioners' Party - called DeSUS - already exists in Slovenia and is part of that country's coalition government, I hope that it will be able to send a representative to Parliament so that the pensioners not just of Slovenia but of all the states of the new Europe which emerge from the 2004 European Parliament elections, will have a huge number of representatives from the Pensioners' Parties of all these states, including Slovenia, upholding the rights of the elderly. . (DE) I voted to approve the Accession Treaties only under protest and out of solidarity with my future colleagues.
Despite the Commission's warnings and reproaches during the course of the negotiations, the Council has insisted on committing what is without doubt a breach of the law.
The Council's controversial retention of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty and consequent wholly unilateral alteration of the 2004-2006 financial framework amounts to a breach of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament and the Council.
Such behaviour by the Council puts an end to our loyal cooperation with it.
I voted for the report which approves the entry of the Slovak Republic into the European Union too, and I hope that the next European Parliament, elected in 2004, will include at least one representative of the Pensioners' Party of the Slovak Republic, so that there will be more of us to protect the interests of the elderly throughout Europe. . (DE) I voted to approve the Accession Treaties only under protest and out of solidarity with my future colleagues.
Despite the Commission's warnings and reproaches during the course of the negotiations, the Council has insisted on committing what is without doubt a breach of the law.
The Council's controversial retention of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty and consequent wholly unilateral alteration of the 2004-2006 financial framework amounts to a breach of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament and the Council.
Such behaviour by the Council puts an end to our loyal cooperation with it. - (NL) As a member of the delegation for relations with Slovakia, I know the problems of that country in more detail than those of other accession countries.
I see unstable political parties emerge and disappear, a largely collapsed economy with mass unemployment in the east and the refusal of successive governments to rectify wrongs previously committed against members of national minorities.
The new division into provinces takes absolutely no account of the fact that the southern edge of Slovakia is Hungarian speaking and that most people there want to have administration and education in that language.
Yet accession to the EU is far less controversial in internally divided Slovakia than in the neighbouring countries of Poland and the Czech Republic, where the majority will perhaps shortly vote against in a referendum.
Yet again, this vote contravenes the Treaty.
The protocol on the seat of the institutions states that 12 monthly plenary sessions are to be held in Strasbourg.
According to precedent, this is reduced to 11 in election years.
Nevertheless, the anti-Strasbourg contingent has gone even further this time, only allowing for 10 sessions.
This stems in part from the absurd action of the Socialists who wanted to cancel the last session in April because they do not want to work on 1 May.
We call on the French Government to take this illegal vote to the Court of Justice.
We call for a Conference of Presidents to be convened as a matter of urgency to arrange for a new vote as soon as possible, in accordance with Community law. - (DA) We have chosen to vote in favour of the report because we believe it is necessary to guarantee fair treatment of third-country nationals resident lawfully.
We believe as a matter of principle, however, that these rights are best safeguarded by the Member States' national legislative provisions, which are very different from one country to another but which have a democratic basis.
Significantly, these amendments broaden the definition of the family members who can benefit from family reunification, allow individuals to apply for family reunification more quickly and restrict the grounds on which Member States can refuse applications.
Nevertheless, we cannot accept wives being prevented from entering and residing in a host country, on the grounds that one wife already lives in that country.
Moreover, the report as a whole does not raise the standard of national legislations but levels them down. - (DA) We have chosen to fall in with our group and vote in favour of the draft resolution in Mrs Cerdeira Morterero's report.
We are all aware of the disparity between the declarations made at the Tampere Summit and the content of the proposal for a directive before us, which has reached us after more than three years of discussion in Council and two amendments to the Commission's initial proposal.
By introducing such amendments, the report distances itself in qualitative terms from the initial proposal and therefore deserves our favourable vote.
I have voted for this report and support it in line with my past work on immigration matters - particularly my work on secondary immigration issues like the 'primary purpose' marriage rule in the UK.
It is important for Member States to authorise the entry of close relatives - parents, spouses or partners if there are no other means of support.
Abstaining from taking appropriate and balanced measures in this field is precisely the cause of the damaging effects of which all European citizens are aware.
This is quite clear to me, because I recognise the importance of this concept.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recent crisis in Iraq demonstrated fairly clearly where Europe is lagging behind, especially on foreign policy and defence issues.
This crisis may also have a creative effect for European policies and, from this point of view, I think that the Morillon report has come along at just the right time, even if this was not apparent when it started.
The method we use to handle threats to global security will determine our future as we build peace and safeguard a healthy economic environment and find convincing answers to global political, economic and even environmental problems.
At this point, with the occurrence of the Iraqi crisis, I should like to say how grateful I am that the extremely interesting report by General Morillon has given the presidency an opportunity to formulate the Council's opinions on as serious an issue for European integration as the European security and defence policy.
Both the Morillon report and other related initiatives, such as the Barnier report, have contributed important ideas which may be especially useful in the debate to be held at the intergovernmental conference, and even at the present stage, when the competent bodies of the Council are processing texts relating to the integration of the ESDP mechanism and, of course, in the Convention.
I need to point out here, and I shall explain why in just a moment, that some of the ideas formulated in the Morillon report relate to initiatives which have already been set in motion and are being examined by the competent bodies of the Union.
I shall start by dealing with the current threats to security, stability and peace that have taken a very different form from the usual threats in the past.
Within this framework, the first move has been to set two specific objectives: the use of the military forces of the Union for the protection from terrorist attack of civilians on the one hand and of the military forces of the Union deployed in crisis areas on the other.
We are paying particular attention to this issue and, within the framework of continuing the efforts made so far, there are plans to convene a conference of capabilities to evaluate and record progress made in applying the related action plan, the ?C?P, and deciding how to proceed.
The decision taken by the European Council in Brussels had two parts: first, to instruct the Council to examine the role of defence research and development within the more general framework of the Union's related capabilities and, secondly, to examine the possible creation of a European armament agency, a European intergovernmental agency.
Both these issues are very important steps towards strengthening cooperation in the defence sector.
The Morillon report also touched on this.
Within this framework, we need to cultivate and promote a common perception of security, which is why the creation of a system of common political and military training for crisis management is of especial interest to the presidency and we are already working on this.
Without doubt, the component element of European security is the relationship between the European Union and NATO.
In any case, the European option in crisis management is to appeal first to the will and action of regional and international organisations; in other words, dialogue takes priority.
I should like to take this opportunity to underline the fact that the Morillon report notes that action by the two organisations and their members must be directed and governed by the principles of the United Nations Charter.
However, there can be no doubt that the report proposes and covers a broad spectrum of ideas relating to very serious issues and institutional aspects of the ESDP, which will make a valuable contribution to our discussions from now on.
This will allow the European Union to fortify its security and strengthen its foreign policy.
Ladies and gentlemen, the current state of affairs, despite its dark side, might mark the start of an intensive debate as to what the European Union intends to do from now on, especially now that we are in the middle of an open debate on the future of Europe.
The number of amendments that the committee considered before adopting this resolution is, in many respects, a testament to the depth of interest, but also frankly to the differences of view, on this key area of European policy.
Whatever is recommended in future by the Convention, where my colleague, Commissioner Barnier, has ably led the discussions on defence issues - and I know that he has briefed the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy in the course of the deliberations on this report - those Commission responsibilities are at the moment pretty limited when compared to the range of issues covered in the text before us.
The Commission is not involved in the purely military aspects of European security and defence policy.
That is exclusively for the Member States.
I shall not therefore comment on the specifically military proposals, including the establishment of a permanent standing military force, a collective defence clause or a joint military college.
But the Treaty does associate the Commission with ESDP - Article 27 does that in terms - and we are actively involved in all discussions on crisis management operations in the context of ESDP, in particular in those that relate to the civilian crisis management instruments, for example policing, the rule of law, civilian administration and civil protection.
But it is impossible - this is a point I have made on many occasions in this Chamber - to separate purely military matters from related issues in which we in the Commission are competent, and have a real contribution to make.
The Commission already has an impressive range of instruments and expertise which can be used in crisis situations.
But the most important requirement is that all available instruments should serve agreed European policy objectives in any given situation.
The concerns on duplication and fragmentation in arms production and procurement and the lack of interoperability - identified in the resolution before us - are some of the key issues that we sought to address in our communication.
Ultimately, much of the credibility of Europe's common foreign and security policy depends on the European Union's military capacity.
The creation of the 60 000-strong 'rapid reaction force' being set up under ESDP will certainly help to increase the European Union's credibility abroad.
And the launch of the first ever European Union military operation in The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia last month shows that ESDP is not just a theoretical construct.
But I fully agree with my honourable friend General Morillon that it remains difficult for our allies to take Europe seriously unless we spend more on our security.
If not, our allies will remain of the opinion that Europe cashed in too easily its peace dividend after the fall of the Berlin Wall.
The thrust of the Guidelines should apply equally to the use of European military and civil defence assets in any humanitarian operation.
After all, in recent weeks we have been facing the fact of the actual powerlessness of the European Union and even of the Member States together to count for anything in the area of defence.
The experience in Yugoslavia in particular, where it was not 'peacefulness' and 'modesty' that led to the reserved attitude of the European states, but 'cynicism' and 'indifference', taught us this at the time.
This hypocrisy has slowly disappeared from this Parliament.
This responsibility can really only appear to full advantage through the organisations of the European Union and then in cooperation with our transatlantic allies.
The linking of these two is therefore a very important element, as it is in General Morillon's report.
In it, he outlines a realistic path to a European defence responsibility, knowing very well on the basis of his expertise as a general that military action is always embedded in everything that is needed by way of civil action before and after.
That is of course always something new and for many countries it will be difficult to change over to this, but for us it is of the greatest importance.
In this way it is possible to make a substantial increase in the efficiency of the defence effort.
If we start from the search for a European view of our defence responsibility, the trust of all the Member States can also be gained.
After all, no one will be at a loss regarding the question of which big country to follow: France, Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States.
If you do that thoroughly and at a certain point you run into a wall, then you know which one it is, what a reform must look like and how institutional changes must be formulated.
Otherwise the Greek Presidency would for example currently be having a far greater part to play in initiatives that are being taken in this area.
Then the budgets can be used more efficiently and that will be an immediate benefit for all citizens.
Ever since 11 September 2001, the European Union has been largely excluded from political and military affairs, whether it is the situation in Afghanistan and Iraq, or the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians.
A number of countries, including Belgium, Germany, France and Luxembourg, have already put forward an initiative to revive the security and defence policy.
Prime Minister Simitis said as much recently.
Given their geographical position and their common borders, the countries of Europe are, de facto, dependant on each other for their security.
This report could hardly be more timely.
Europe's divisions over Iraq have been a stark reminder of our failure to speak with one voice on security policy, and yet we should not forget that Europe does have a single trade policy, a common development policy and an embryonic European diplomatic corps in the form of the Commission's offices around the world.
Our foreign policy is incoherent because it is split between three Commissioners, the Council presidency and a Council High Representative, and because some Member States deny our essential commonality of interests in foreign policy, or forbid the Commission to play a central executive role.
Without a common defence policy, Europe will still lack the military muscle needed for a credible common foreign policy.
What we want is to achieve better value for money, and if EU countries agree that military equipment made outside the EU best meets our needs and provides best value for money, we should not choose a European option in a misguided attempt at protectionism.
While there are clearly reservations about this, introducing a collective defence clause in the new Constitutional Treaty, similar to that under the Western European Union Treaty, also seems a necessary step.
It may be that progress towards these goals cannot be made at once with the 15, let alone with 25 Member States.
That is why I welcome the Belgian Government's initiative for a meeting later this month with France, Germany and Luxembourg, on defence policy.
Nonetheless I insist that enhanced cooperation on defence must remain open to all governments who wish to join, and that the British Government in particular, given its military capability and experience, will do so.
In conclusion, a European security and defence policy can usefully complement the collective security provided by NATO as long as there is rationalisation of arms procurement, added value in the form of a doctrine based on conflict prevention and crisis management and backed by the credible threat of military action, and a more coherent and unified approach to security policy.
Only in emergencies, only in crisis situations must the European Union have military means at its disposal.
That is precisely the order that my Group supports and that is also the reason why for example we support the action of the European Union in Macedonia and Bosnia.
It shows that the European Union - finally I would say - has at its disposal almost the last in the entire spectrum of means when it comes to foreign and security policy.
There are two parts of the report that I want to discuss.
Let us deal with the strategic concept first, then let us look at what we want to do with these European means.
As far as I am concerned, it is also too soon to be saying that we must be capable of taking on a kind of Kosovo-type task in 2009.
Look at the strategic concept first and then take on specific tasks of that kind.
I am glad that that is also stated very clearly in Mr Morillon's report.
If we are in favour of it - and I think that the majority of the Parliament is in favour of deciding by majority, even on security policy - then it cannot be the case that the European Parliament is sidelined when it comes to democratic control.
We need effectiveness, but please together with democratic control, and ultimately it will have to take place here in this house.
Mr President, recent international events have, once again, highlighted the need for a European Union which is able to take united action both in the area of its own security and when it is necessary to protect the right of all peoples to build a democratic, pluralist system which respects human and civil rights, for a Europe which is, at last, able to combine diplomacy - the diplomatic services - and the information systems of each individual state to achieve that cooperation which clearly requires there to be constant dialogue within the Council on issues of international politics if we are to be able to come to decisions which are as representative as possible of public opinion throughout the Union.
Clearly, therefore, we support a European security and defence policy which, through a military instrument, not least, as proposed by General Morillon, can preserve peace and guarantee democracy.
This project cannot just be based on the production of documents, on declarations of good intentions or on the establishment of trade relations: it must provide forces equal to the task of combating terrorism in order to protect our values, our vision of the world and our institutions of freedom.
Aristide Briand promoted the idea with the drastic result of breaking down resistance and the spirit of defence in France.
The fanciful notion was taken up again in 1948, at the Congress of Europe held in The Hague, and then by Winston Churchill in 1950, following the failure of the European Defence Community, which was one of his dreams.
Lastly, this defence policy is nothing but a pipe dream because we cannot establish a defence policy without a common foreign policy.
This is the only and the best contribution France can make to what remains of Europe.
This is of course the objective relentlessly pursued by all those who, for various different reasons, think that the concept of a 'Europe as a Power' can be used to re-start the process of European integration that is in such a sorry state.
The Iraq war should however make all these people realise that nations are cold-hearted monsters who only care about their own interests.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it has always been a dream of mine to speak following a de Gaulle, but not one who makes speeches like that one.
We got there too late, just as we had in Bosnia, in Kosovo and in Afghanistan.
In none of these armed conflicts did the European Union, as an international actor, play a part in deciding the course of events.
Only a Union like that can become an independent actor in global politics and have confidence in itself as a partner in transatlantic relations.
This report is also intended to be Parliament's contribution to answering the question - one of key importance in terms of the future - of how the European Union can keep its citizens safe from new terrorist threats, and how it can contribute to the peace and stability of the world.
That is why this report expresses our support for all those in the Convention who favour updating the Petersberg tasks, who are in favour of a vanguard of Member States being able to undertake military crisis missions, who support a European armaments agency in some form, who advocate a European support and solidarity clause and who, in particular, seek the introduction of majority decisions in foreign policy and enhanced cooperation in defence policy - both of which are of crucial importance.
Let me put forward my final contention, which is that all rapid intervention operations to be contemplated within the framework of the ESDP will possess both a civil and a military element.
It is precisely in that respect that we differ from NATO.
Next year, we may well be taking over the SFOR mission from NATO.
Although this has to do with parliamentary control, another result is democratic support and endorsement for actions by governments.
In any case, the citizens of the European Union are already saying 'yes' to the concept of a European defence policy as outlined in the Morillon Report.
The war in Iraq has divided Europe.
Doubt has therefore been sown, in public opinion too, about the ability of the European Union to speak to the outside world with one voice.
Today's debate about European defence policy therefore comes at a rather strange time.
The European Convention is currently deliberating on the strengthening of the decision-making structures.
The Morillon report contains a whole range of practical proposals for improving the defence capability of the EU.
We support the expansion of the Petersberg tasks, and this must also include the fight against terrorism.
The rapid reaction force must receive more attention.
If it wishes to be able to operate truly independently in the future, then the defence industry in Europe will have to be better organised as well.
The realisation of all these ambitions would actually provide the European Union with a serviceable military capability.
In the context of a broad security policy with crisis prevention as a priority, the European Union must be able to deploy several instruments at the same time.
A credible military component is part and parcel of such an approach.
The war in Iraq has made us more aware of our weaknesses, but that is no reason to change the basic philosophy entirely.
If it is a matter of maintaining the international legal order, the European Union must, together with others and within the multilateral frameworks, be able to accept its responsibility.
Mr President, the Morillon report treats European defence as part of a realistic, responsible strategy of solidarity and complementarity with the United States, and it therefore represents a substantial undertaking, involving planning, economic sacrifices and military investment.
The report avoids dangerous illusions which would not make the world safer and more democratic and certainly not make Europe more united.
This is an illusion which is deeply rooted in European nationalism and in ideologies which are now obsolete, an illusion which explains the strange alliance formed between right and left in the face of the war in Iraq and which, by contrast, exalts the principle of democratic intervention.
This political illusion is more dangerous than imperial unilateralism or blind pacifism: while ostensibly guiding Europe it has divided it; it has divided the Fifteen, it has offended the countries of Eastern Europe at the very time of the reunification process, it has widened the gap between the Union and the United States and, before the right of veto could be exercised, it has helped to paralyse the Security Council, justifying military intervention outside the context of the UN.
Before abandoning itself to developing the institutional system, the Union must define its political vision more clearly, it must ensure the security of its people, territory and borders - which it has failed to do in the Balkans - it must take note of the erosion of arms control and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in the hands of bloody dictatorships, and it must strive resolutely to combat terrorism and to bring about security for Israel and a democratic Palestinian state.
If the Union wants to be allied with the United States rather than subordinate or hostile to it, neither resigned nor resentful, it must develop common defence and gradually assume leadership of the Atlantic Alliance, to which the United States is now only contributing 8% of its forces.
To this end, it can take as a basis the Saint-Malo agreement between France and the United Kingdom and General Morillon's report, which are the greatest achievements of European security policy and its development, which must be consolidated, built upon and extended to include the entire Union.
What we have seen, particularly in recent years and on 11 September, is that security is not brought about through building up armaments.
It might be said, rather, that the opposite is the case for, if there is any country on this planet that has been well equipped militarily, it is the United States which, specifically, became the victim of a terrorist action on 11 September.
The swing to the right throughout the United States in this area must not, for heaven's sake, end up infecting thinking on European security policy.
If, however, that identity is to consist in our copying something that has already proved to be useless and powerless, then we shall have taken a wrong turning.
Our colleague, Mrs Frahm, has already explained that we cannot vote in favour of the report, despite its positive content, for three clear reasons.
The first reason is our dependence on NATO, which makes the European Union into a kind of dwarf next to the American giant and it is therefore essential to establish the European Union's own personality if we are to make progress.
The second reason is the need to act more firmly once the Iraq war has taken place, because we must make it abundantly clear that the danger at the moment in the world is the aggressive behaviour of the United States.
Therefore my third point is that the European Union must play a fundamental role in the democratic strengthening of the United Nations and the Security Council.
Furthermore, we must work to ensure that any conflict that takes place must inevitably pass through the United Nations General Assembly and the Security Council, in accordance with international law, which is exactly what the United States are not doing.
This European Union contribution is a success.
This is what many South American countries have told us, that, in the face of the pressure - which I believe was entirely unjustified - from President Aznar to sign up two Security Council countries to the war in Iraq, they have responded with dignity and courage and have shown Europe an example, saying that peace and international law are more important than the dangerous adventures of the United States.
General Morillon wants the EU to do the same as the United States did in Kosovo or perhaps Iraq or some other small country against which the United States waged a war of aggression in the last hundred years.
If General Morillon gets his way, we should do well to take Oswald Spengler's 'The Decline of the West' down from the book shelves in order to understand what will happen.
Instead of making fools of ourselves, we should learn from EU countries that have succeeded in staying out of wars for 200 years.
The United States should be left to wage the wars until the Americans themselves are consumed in blood and fire, just as the Romans were.
The Morillon report rightly states for example that NATO remains the absolutely necessary alliance for common defence, but at the same time argues passionately for the development of an independent European security and defence policy.
One thing is sure: the obvious discord within European ranks on Iraq and also a controversial group initiative with regard to a European defence policy do not currently make the common foreign and security policy and the European security and defence policy a credible basis for the security of the citizens in the states of Europe.
You serve these citizens with a strong, united NATO.
We cannot pretend that it is still a question of defining a common defence policy to implement a common foreign and security policy in all Member States.
I would categorise as obsolete paragraph 54, which proposes allocating the European Union one permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council.
Present events also clearly indicate the damage caused in Europe by the ideology of the dividends of peace.
Madam President, I would firstly like to acknowledge the French General, as others have done, but also the rapporteur for this report, Mr Morillon, an exemplary citizen and Member of the European Parliament.
This also comes at a time characterised by the 11 September attacks and the Iraq crisis.
The enlarged European Union today has a greater population than the United States, it has a similar gross domestic product to the United States and greater commercial and industrial power.
Yesterday the President of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia visited this Parliament, and this visit coincided with the entry into force of a European Union mission to that Republic.
These are small steps, Madam President, which demonstrate the European Union's desire to establish itself as a strong Europe and as a player on the international stage which is able to shine in the military, economic and cultural fields, amongst others.
Madam President, I would refer those people who have made these statements to the words of the Mexican Minister of Foreign Affairs yesterday, when he said that relations between Spain and Mexico have never been better at any point in history.
It is, however, precisely in the current context that this report, with the dose of proactive thinking that it provides, becomes even more relevant.
The substance of this report warrants our support, because it is based on fundamental points on which there is consensus in the European Parliament and amongst the Union's citizens, specifically respect for the principles of the United Nations Charter and international law, a framework of common external policy guidelines encompassing security and defence policy, the need to accept joint European responsibilities in the field of security and defence policy, starting with military support for humanitarian aid missions, conflict prevention and resolution and maintaining both transatlantic relations and a multilateral approach.
For example, the sectoral distribution of appropriations earmarked for defence in each country could be improved.
Madam President, recent events show that the EU Member States cannot now and will not in the future agree on the organisation of a common defence policy.
The EU Member States that belong to NATO have also been sharply divided in their views on the Iraq war, which reflects their general attitude to the new international order that is taking shape.
The neutral Member States have not wanted and do not want to have the Union become a military alliance or military superpower.
Germany, France, Belgium and other like-minded countries could embark on a programme of close and mutual military cooperation within the framework of NATO and establish a Defence Community that would act as a strong European pillar of NATO.
This arrangement would strengthen the partnership between Europe and North America, which is important to us all.
The other EU Member States, both those that belong to NATO and the neutral countries, would play a role in ensuring that the transatlantic relationship is preserved and strengthened.
The creation of a Defence Community could lead to even more universal internal differentiation in the Union on the basis of the ideas that leading French and German experts and politicians have been proposing for years.
Madam President, I think that all the members of the European Parliament are over 18 years of age, our average age is 40 or 50, so surely we should be playing with toy soldiers.
I am not a general and am not therefore in a position to judge; I simply did my military service without even becoming a non-commissioned officer.
Nor can I erase from my mind's eye what I saw on the television five minutes ago; a nation which has not only been bombed for days on end, but which has been driven to the very extreme of indignity, with looting, thieving and everything else that we are seeing on our televisions.
In this sense, this is a useful debate.
Madam President, Commissioner, once we became aware that, even if it were the main commercial power, Europe could not play any important role in the international order unless it had a common foreign and security policy, the so-called third pillar was adopted in the Treaty of Maastricht and the objective was set of creating an operative military capacity in order to guarantee the maintenance of peace.
In an increasingly global and interdependent world, until now our policy has been to establish international law, above all through the United Nations, but also through other world organisations, and we have therefore drawn up a regulatory framework for international relations, because we are convinced that that is the best way to prevent and deal with any possible conflicts.
And we believe that, within this world order, the European Union should act with a common voice which will allow it to be seen as a commercial, economic and social power and also as a great defender of human rights, multiculturalism and the environment.
I am referring to the differing positions maintained by the governments of the 15 countries within the United Nations Security Council with regard to the conflict in Iraq.
His ability to achieve very broad consensus in this House on this extremely important issue is demonstrated not only by this debate, but also by the relatively few amendments that have been tabled.
Firstly, there is broad consensus about the European Union's ability, within the NATO framework, to defend itself against any conceivable aggressor, whether this be done together with our allies, or, if need be, independently.
I would very much welcome a decision by the Convention to propose a mutual support clause for the new constitution of the European Union.
Thirdly, we in the European Union should be in a position to carry out rescue operations anywhere in the world and at any time, where the safety of European citizens is involved.
Madam President, in relation to Iraq I have swung from anger, through despondency, to determination.
I am despondent that the European Union has been so impotent in its efforts at seeking to stop this war and to achieve a peaceful disarmament of the Iraqis.
That possibility is still there and we should do everything we can to put aside our relatively petty differences, based on national egotism in many cases, to reach a common position for Europe.
We have an important role to play in the world and we should seek to play that role now of all times.
It is time the European Union got its act together and made it clear that we will not stand for the kind of actions that have been taken in relation to Iraq, that we will unite to put in place serious peaceful conflict-prevention mechanisms to achieve what the world needs, that is, stability and peace.
The current European leaders only want to speak with one voice when it comes out of their own mouths.
The common foreign and security policy is evidently not important enough to make concessions for it.
As long as the renationalisation of foreign policy continues in the European Union, common defence will remain up in the air like a rudderless bomber with bickering pilots.
Good Atlantic relations are of fundamental importance for Europe, for America and also for the rest of the world.
If the United States can impose their Pax Americana, this is partly the fault of the current European leaders.
The European Union must certainly be capable of acting militarily on its own continent, preferably in a NATO context, but if it must independently too.
The telescoping and strengthening of military resources lays a foundation for a common and strong security policy.
In short, if Europe no longer wishes to leave its future in the hands of the United States, it must provide itself with the necessary means so that a European defence architecture can at last be established.
I therefore think it significant that a supplementary amendment on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats calls for a permanent intervention force, which must be, by 2009, capable of being deployed in any conflict similar to Kosovo in the European geographical area, whether in cooperation with NATO or independently of it.
Ever since the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Austria has made clear its desire to be involve itself in European security policy in a spirit of solidarity.
Madam President, serious international crises have a habit of highlighting national differences between the EU Member States.
Although the Union played a key and successful role in the wake of the conflicts in the Balkans and Afghanistan we were unable to act in time and effectively to prevent, for example, the tragedy that occurred in the former Yugoslavia.
The Iraq war has also highlighted differences between the Member States resulting from their history, geopolitics and political priorities.
The internal political situation in the different Member States makes the dispute an even more heated one.
It would nevertheless seem at present that NATO's importance is dwindling and that Europe should take more responsibility for its own security and defence policy.
General Morillon's creditable report therefore comes at a very good time.
Perhaps the global political crisis that is going on and the threatening images it conjures up will inspire us to make a real effort to strengthen Europe's voice and its capacity for action.
That is why the European Convention should strengthen the Commission's role in foreign policy.
It would furthermore be a good idea to become more familiar with the aims and needs of the foreign and security policies of different Member States.
I do not know whether this terrible war of neocolonial aggression against Iraq will soon come to an end.
Europe can and must carry weight in the world only if it has its own independent foreign and defence policy, with its own independent economic, political forces and military forces too.
British Conservatives have consistently regarded the pursuit of an autonomous European security and defence policy as one of the most ill-advised policy ambitions of the European Union.
Others have been confused into imagining that ESDP is primarily about encouraging European countries to make a greater contribution to defence.
If this were the case, it might be a worthy ambition.
In fact, it complicates the Transatlantic Alliance, produces no additional troops and has no real purpose, except to shift defence and security decision-making responsibilities away from NATO headquarters - where European countries sit around the same table as our American allies - to the European Union, from which Americans are specifically excluded.
The splits that occurred in NATO and elsewhere in the lead-up to the Iraq war were a deliberate consequence of this policy.
The report of my gallant friend, General Morillon, exposes very clearly the ambition to communitarise defence within the European Union.
With the experience of the Iraq crisis behind him, I sincerely hope that the British Prime Minister will realise the folly and indeed mischief of creating defence institutions which will merely exacerbate divisions between European countries and the United States.
The European Union is putting its political pretensions before the real security interests of the citizens of its Member States.
A positive example is the recent presence of the European Union in the FYROM.
However, the problem persists.
Europe needs to shape its own personality and to operate as an equal partner and associate.
Europe needs to take its decisions at both an institutional and material level.
Madam President, in my opinion, the issues addressed in this report are extremely important in strategic terms and also the most urgent of the European priorities: giving the Union the ability to act in the field of security and defence as well as in the field of combating terrorism, within the framework of a unified, coherent foreign policy.
I therefore support the Morillon report and I will uphold all the proposals that give these policies more credibility and more weight: increasing national defence budgets within this Union perspective; allocating a proportion of the Union's budget to supporting research and development; an integration programme to stop duplication and fragmentation; ad hoc cooperation or enhanced cooperation, should some Member states have legitimate grounds for not taking part in this undertaking; the transparent, effective integration of European defence into a renewed NATO and into the consolidated Atlantic Alliance, which must be preserved.
The Convention, Madam President, must listen to the views of the majority of Europeans who, together with Parliament, are calling for a return to effective multilateralism and to a Europe which is capable of taking action.
The forward line of troops will be given the opportunity to engage in still higher levels of cooperation: when the EU's crisis management is extended to include the work of combat forces this may be done illegally without a mandate from the United Nations and irrespective of geographical borders.
The most militaristic countries will be able to give one another guarantees of security in the form of a declaration or protocol in the spirit of Article 5 of the WEU.
I would like to remind everyone that there are countries in the EU that do not want to be part of any military alliance.
I am glad to say that there were Heads of State and Government in Europe who were capable of challenging public opinion and asserting their own vision of world peace: peace which, regrettably, in this case, could only come about through a war which was necessary in order to avoid even greater tragedies in the coming years.
Madam President, two thousand years ago, the Roman, Cicero, said that there are two ways of solving conflicts: either through negotiations or through violence.
As I see it, the EU should step up its international work, strengthen the United Nations and reinforce its capacity to prevent and resolve conflicts, rather than stake more power and resources on a common military defence which, as Commissioner Patten said, still ultimately revolves around national issues.
My own country, Sweden, is heavily committed to conflict prevention, peacekeeping and crisis management.
It is in that area that the EU can make considerable efforts in the cause of peace.
As long as two thousand years ago, Cicero knew that only wild beasts try to resolve conflicts through violence.
At the moment, the Iraq crisis is a problem which affects all of us.
But in the European Union, although the problem is a common one, the solutions have been different, because the Union has neither a common foreign policy nor a common defence policy.
The Convention must take this into account when drawing up the Union's Treaty.
In order to achieve these objectives, the European defence and security policy, which the Morillon report deals with, is being promoted.
The proclamations made after September 11 - 'we are all Americans' - are still ringing in their ears.
The crime being perpetrated in Iraq as we speak again gives us a picture, after Yugoslavia and Afghanistan, of the purpose of these policies.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like a number of those that preceded it, the last intervention makes me doubt, for example, the source of a Communist's information - which is so precise - on what the peoples want.
Others in this House have said this is about dividing up the riches of socialism.
A Social Democrat spoke in terms of a colonial Camp David.
I really do wonder about the sort of arguments people are coming up with in this debate, and I ask myself whether they would say these things in public in their own countries.
In Kosovo, the citizens wanted the European Union to ?. ?.
On 1 April, we took over for the first time a small mandate in Macedonia, the intention of which is to pacify the country rather than - as some in this House suggest - to engage in armed conflict.
Here, I think, Europe is sending out the right message, and that is what the public expect of us.
What this report proposes is preferable to what came out of the recent Brussels summit, when, as so often before, only four Member States came together, so that the suspicion again arises that this is more of a political act against other allies.
I agree with the previous speaker, Mr Laschet: in recent weeks or months, Europe has, unfortunately, not played any global role at all.
But if we read it correctly, the Morillon report states primarily - not exclusively, but primarily - that the task must be to coordinate our defence spending so that, initially, we achieve a far greater impact and more efficiency with the same amount of money.
We should try to abolish protectionism in all trade, including the trade in arms, and get the United States fully to open up its arms market.
The current system is inefficient and expensive.
Taxpayers are entitled to demand that every euro be used in the most effective way possible.
That, in turn, requires us to think European.
Europe would in that case become weaker and more dependent.
Only with a larger budget for defence equipment and a European research-oriented defence industry within the framework of a common defence policy can we become a credible, effective and reliable partner of the United States.
Madam President, I would like to congratulate my respected colleague General Morillon on his report.
As previous speakers have already said, it is being considered at an opportune time.
I am a strong supporter of the establishment of an EU defence policy because I believe it is as much a fundamental part of European integration as the single currency.
Additionally, if we are to learn any lessons from the current debacle and disarray in which the European Union finds itself, then the European Convention and the subsequent IGC have to consider the arguments advanced at the heart of this report.
However, we have to accept that there is absolutely no chance of influencing the United States when we are so dependent on them.
I do not believe that our current difficulties over our divided response to the Iraq crisis should give rise to pessimism and paralysis.
If we really want to exercise influence on the world stage, then EU leaders must agree on merging the functions of the High Representative and the Commissioner for External Relations, served by a single administration, adequately resourced, and using all our instruments in the policy areas - such as trade, development, environment, justice and home affairs - to support clear political objectives at the heart of our foreign policy.
It is to be hoped that as we move towards the creation of defence structures, we will not forget the importance of conflict prevention, and also of continued investment in our policy on democratisation and human rights, because it is abuses in those areas that give rise to conflict in many parts of the world.
We need a responsible, long-term strategy as the basis for a common foreign and security policy.
I think the Convention is the final opportunity, in the broad community of fifteen - soon to be twenty-five or thirty - Member States, to achieve a common foreign and security policy.
In the wake of the enlargement which we have agreed today, we will have more citizens than Russia and the USA put together.
This does not mean structures of aggression, but structures which actively build peace.
Painfully, we failed to do this in advance of the Iraq war, but it has been the European Union's mission since our founding fathers started it up in 1952.
Madam President, no one has to convince us Swedish Democrats of the need for a common foreign and security policy.
The common policy is particularly important for small countries within the EU.
Unfortunately, the common foreign and security policy has been in ruins in recent months.
This was probably the most important political decision most us have ever been involved in making.
It is my hope that my own country too will choose the same security solution as, for example, our Baltic neighbours, that is to say membership of NATO.
The EU's military resources must be seen as complementing efforts to promote peace and to protect people in war-torn areas and as complementing joint efforts to combat terrorism and to respond urgently to disasters.
The Atlanticist attitude of the candidate countries is based on our own weaknesses and on the fact that they do not believe that Europe is capable of defending them.
Perhaps we shall finally find an answer to the question of what we want to do together.
The second is the vision of a Europe which is powerful not only economically but politically as well, and which plays a full role in the world, in partnership with its allies and not under their tutelage.
If we have the political will to achieve it, this common defence will constitute a formidable potential for union and will finally enable us to harmonise our human and material resources in every field, and particularly in research, weapons systems and information, which will have inestimable civil, economic and social repercussions.
This is the desire of many countries in the world, countries which expect Europe to play its role.
Thank you, Mr Martin.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0088/2003).
On 12 August 2002, he was abducted in Makhachkala, the capital of Dagestan.
The Council also issued a statement on the abduction of Mr Erkel on 31 January of this year.
This matter was also raised during the troika of political leaders with Russia on 16 January.
The Council will raise the question of the abduction of Mr Erkel during the forthcoming meeting of the Cooperation Council with Russia on 14 and 15 April, next week in other words, in the hope that his safe release can be secured.
Mr President, I thank the Greek Presidency very much of course for the reply, but I must nonetheless express my disillusionment.
Hundreds of thousands of people have signed a petition that is coming in to Médecins sans Frontières on a separate web site.
The reality is that our Russian colleagues only tackle this matter as a criminal matter, as a workaday matter.
I should like to say to the honourable Member that we all consider this sort of incident, such as the abduction of a person who has gone to offer his best services, to be a savage act which we must do what we can to reverse.
Mr President, the Council agrees with the importance the honourable Member attaches to the right of refugees and exiles to return to their countries, which is considered to be a fundamental human right.
Under Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union, any European state which respects the principles set out in Article 6(1) may apply to become a member of the Union.
The Council would remind the honourable Member that, since the European Council in Feira, countries in the stability and association process are potential candidates for accession to the European Union.
In the meantime, the stabilisation and association process remains the Union's focal point in the area.
It is a long-term approach, the purpose of which is to support the reforms which are needed and which are in keeping with the European Union.
The rate at which each country goes through the various stages of the process depends on its improved ability to undertake the obligations which derive from closer and closer links with the Union and from meeting the preconditions laid down by the Council in April 1997.
The Council examines the progress made by each country every year and this tool is used to take decisions on how relations will develop in the future.
The most recent examination at Council level was on 13 May 2002.
I should also like to say that the Council decided on 22 July 2002 that the European Union would use the same opportunity to evaluate progress made with the return of refugees and exiles.
In any event, this issue is discussed regularly by the Union, depending on requirements, during various contacts with the countries in the region.
The Union therefore has a number of means at its disposal at this stage which allow it to monitor the application of the policies which the honourable Member addresses in his question.
Mr President, it is, of course, obvious that, once they have acceded, and even now with a view to their accession, all these countries are obliged to safeguard the free movement and establishment of persons.
And in this sense, the concept of refugee will no longer have any meaning between these countries or, of course, between these countries and the present 15 members of the Union.
If that is how things stand, does it make sense for there to still be refugees of Greek descent in some of these countries, such as the FYROM, who cannot enter Greece?
The call for their right of free entry into Greece is supported by a whole host of people of all political persuasions, as I found out for myself during meetings in Florina and elsewhere.
This is why my question has not been allowed.
In any event, Mr President, I wish to ask whether today's questions have been looked at, to know whether any other accusations of bad faith have been made.
I wish to ask, Mr President, whether you will allow me to ask this question and whether, in any event, the other questions have been looked at to see whether they are guilty of the same sin.
You have been informed, Mr Nogueira, that the President of Parliament in accordance with his competences and with the Rules of Procedure, and this has been communicated this morning - as you and I have discussed both inside and outside the chamber - has stated that Question No 13 which you have raised is not admissible because it contains statements or judgments, which I do not intend to go into.
Imagine, for example, that you were a Finnish Member and I a German Member, in order not to get into an issue under discussion in Spain.
Provided that it is in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, and I will not comment on the questions from other Members, because that is not my job, particularly as to whether they have 'sinned'.
I very much value your contributions but today your question has been declared inadmissible.
The President of the Council asked me a question just now.
Question No 3 by Alexandros Alavanos (H-0136/03): Subject: Unlawful detention of Greek national at Amsterdam airport Themistocles Koltsidopoulos, a Greek national studying at the University of Piraeus, was travelling to Scotland on a KLM flight via Amsterdam.
I have here a letter from the Royal Constabulary at Schiphol airport in Amsterdam, apologising ten weeks after the event because it found two people on the same aeroplane who supposedly had forged passports.
Question No 4 by Bernd Posselt (H-0138/03): Subject: Accession of Croatia to the EU What is the Council Presidency's view of Croatia's plans to join the EU and what will the next steps be?
Mr President, on 21 February, during his visit to Athens, the Croatian Prime Minister submitted an application for his country to accede to the European Union.
This question is being discussed at Coreper today and, as I said, we are waiting to discuss it in the Council next week.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
Personally, I believe that Croatia fulfils the criteria at least as well as some of the countries which we have admitted today.
Of course it is possible, but no-one knows if this timetable really is feasible.
What measures is the Council prepared to consider in order to guarantee the protection of human rights in this Non-Autonomous Territory?
Question No 7 by Laura González Álvarez (H-0156/03): Subject: Western Sahara dispute After Cyprus and Palestine, the Western Sahara dispute is the longest-standing dispute still pending within the UN, and the last major decolonisation process.
On 30 July 2002, the UN Security Council unanimously approved resolution 1429 on the Western Sahara.
It underlines the validity of the UN plan for resolving the dispute as the democratic, peaceful and lasting solution.
International law demands a fair referendum, which should have been held in 1992.
Question No 11 by Margot Keßler (H-0196/03): Subject: Western Sahara - human rights On 5 March 2003 the Greek Presidency published a statement in which the EU welcomed the release of 100 Moroccan prisoners of war by the Polisario Front on 26 February.
Mr President, the Council is carefully and constantly monitoring the issue of the Western Sahara.
The European Union wants a peaceful solution to the conflict as quickly as possible.
Mr Baker submitted a proposal on 16 January 2003 for a political solution to the conflict which guarantees self-determination in accordance with Security Council Resolution No 1429 of 30 July 2002.
He presented this proposal to the parties involved and the neighbouring countries during his visit to the region between 14 and 17 January 2003, following which the term of office of the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara was extended twice, once until 31 March and the second time until 31 May, in order to give the parties involved time to examine the proposal and formulate their replies.
As noted in the report by the Secretary-General of the United Nations of 16 January, the United Nations and the Security Council have been making active efforts over the last 20 years to help the parties involved find a solution to this conflict.
Regardless of the political solution to the conflict, the question of human rights is a factor of fundamental importance to the Union and a source of permanent concern to it.
In an effort to divorce the humanitarian dimension of the conflict from its political dimension, insofar as that is possible, the European Union has always urged the parties involved to take measures of a humanitarian nature in order to facilitate the restoration of confidence between the people and populations affected.
The Union has made repeated demarches to the parties involved for this purpose.
These efforts again brought about results with the release of 100 Moroccan prisoners of war on 26 February by the Polisario Front.
However, given that approximately 1 160 prisoners of war are still being held, the Union stressed that this gesture was not enough but was a step which could also promote dialogue and trust between all sides.
The humanitarian issues linked with the conflict in the Western Sahara, including the issue of the missing persons, is also raised systematically within the framework of the political dialogue being held by the European Union within the framework of the association agreements which it has concluded with its partners in the southern Mediterranean.
During the last meeting of the Association Council with Morocco in Brussels on 24 February, the Council stressed, among other things, the need for respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Western Sahara.
The Council has also repeatedly turned its attention to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1359, which urgently calls on the parties involved to clear up the issue of the missing persons and to comply with the orders of international humanitarian law.
The European Union, through the humanitarian aid agency of the European Community, is the most important donor of humanitarian aid to the Saharawi people.
As you are aware, the population of Western Sahara depends almost exclusively on the European Union aid provided through ECHO for its survival.
My question was whether the Council will support the continuation of the humanitarian aid to the population of Western Sahara throughout the process you described.
I fail to see why the honourable Member believes that the Council will change its policy on the question of humanitarian aid.
We shall support humanitarian aid in accordance with the proposals we receive from the European Commission.
In all events, the relation between cause and effect, the logical order, is different from that in which the supplementary question was put.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I appreciate that many questions have been posed on this issue, but they are all different.
When we believe a subject is deadlocked within the European institutions we usually proceed as we are today to try and make progress.
What I said about humanitarian assistance in these situations applies precisely to both sides.
The pressure is directed at both sides, including Morocco, to which the honourable Member referred.
The Council is making every possible effort and it will continue to do so along the same lines, so that it can deal with these incidents, be they in the Western Sahara or in any of the other numerous places in the world.
Consequently, what it can do is fight in the way it is fighting and organise itself so that it can strengthen its position on the international stage and raise its profile and exert more influence on the issues of interest to it.
One member of the delegation is a laureate, Mohammed Dadash, who spent nineteen years in prison and who was awarded a human rights prize by the Ravdo Foundation in Norway.
Whether or not I am prepared to intervene personally is not a personal matter for me.
I should like to say that I am from a country which also lived through times such as these at one point and that we are very sensitive to these situations at a personal level.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, recently, there are more and more reports of Europeans disappearing between Algeria and Tunisia.
As far as the question of exploiting deposits and natural resources is concerned, the Council, precisely because this stage is a very delicate stage in the negotiations, does not consider it advisable for activities such as these to be furthered.
The declaration on the competence of the European Communities with regard to matters governed by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 and the Agreement of 28 July 1994 relating to the implementation of Part XI of the Convention sets out the list of issues for which the Community has sole competence or joint competence with its Member States.
However, defining the limits both of territorial waters and of the economic exclusion zone is not included in the list of matters for which the Community has competence.
As regards the matters set out in the preamble to the question concerning the status of the Western Sahara under international law, the Council would remind the honourable Member that this is a matter for the United Nations Organisation as the international organisation involved in investigating and settling the conflict in the Western Sahara, in keeping with the international rules that derive from the Law of the Sea.
I would like to ask whether the European Union, in the light of the information conveyed to us, can make representations to the United Nations to at least respond in a constructive manner as to the future status of the Saharan people.
I should like in particular to point out to the honourable Member that matters of a disciplinary nature relating to national armed forces, such as questions of sexual harassment, come under the jurisdiction and responsibility of the individual Member States.
I should like to draw your attention to the fact, however, that, since September last year, we have had Directive 2002/73 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions.
Lastly, please note that the number of cases actually made public is very high, and is increasing.
This is one more reason for saying that the review now being carried out in the Convention, human rights and a whole series of similar matters must be finalised and studied at Union level.
I suggest to the presidency that, with regard to the many genuine difficulties that exist at the present time between Arab countries and the western countries, there is perhaps a need for a study on how best relations between the European Union and these countries might be improved.
I thank Mr Collins for asking this question at such a sensitive moment in the Iraq crisis.
As the author is not present, Question No 17 lapses. .
Question No 18 by Brian Crowley (H-0164/03): Subject: Alternative energy research and development fund Given the high price of oil on world markets, does the Council consider that now is the time to establish a well-resourced EU alternative energy research and development fund and, if so, will it call on the Commission to bring forward the necessary proposals for the 2004 and subsequent budgets?
Consequently, research and development in the field of alternative energy sources is conducted and funded within the framework of the framework programme.
The current framework programme was introduced under Decision 1513/2002 for the sixth framework programme of the European Community for research, technological development and research activities, contributing to the creation of the European Research Area and to innovation for the period 2002-2006.
The framework programme, under the thematic priority 'sustainable development, global change and ecosystems', provides funding for research and development of sustainable energy systems in the following sectors: clean energy, in particular renewable energy sources and their integration in the energy system, including storage, distribution and use; energy savings and energy efficiency, including those to be achieved through the use of renewable raw materials; alternative motor fuels; fuel cells, including their applications; new technologies for energy carriers, transport and storage on a European scale, in particular hydrogen technology; new and advanced concepts in renewable energy technologies with a significant future energy potential and requiring long-term research efforts; disposal of carbon dioxide associated with cleaner fossil fuel plants.
A sum of EUR 810 million has been earmarked for these research activities during the framework programme.
Further details on research to be carried out and specific financial allocations are contained in the specific decisions establishing the programmes.
Consequently, the Council, under the codecision procedure with the European Parliament, has I think provided substantial funds for research into alternative and renewable energy sources and energy savings and energy efficiency.
Firstly, in the State of the Union address that President George Bush gave in January of this year, he committed, and the Congress approved some time afterwards, USD 7.8 billion to be put aside over the next ten years for research into hydrogen cell-fuelled automobiles.
My second reason is, as we have seen in the recent past with the conflict in Iraq, the instability with regard to the price of oil, and the effect that it can have on the economies here in Europe that are so dependent on fossil fuels.
Having said which, it is a known fact and everyone agrees on the need to promote alternative energy sources in order to combat the problems of environmental pollution and other pressures on the environment.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on Monday this week, we debated category 3 very intensively under the heading of internal policies, and one area which is of particular concern to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy is of course intelligent energies.
In category 3, more than EUR 500 million is now newly available.
As the author is not present, Question No 19 lapses.
Question No 20 by Liam Hyland (H-0167/03): Subject: Older farmers and the demographic debate The Commission has indicated its concerns about the impact of ageing populations on labour markets and potential growth issues and says there must be a clear economic incentive for people to stay in the labour market.
Taking account of the impact of the ageing of the population on the job markets and its possible impact on the development and sustainability of social protection systems, the Member States agreed in Stockholm to increase the employment rate of elderly workers by 50% by 2010.
In its contribution to the spring Council on 21 March 2003, the Council included increasing the job supply and the participation of all groups and promoting a longer working life as one of its nine priorities, in order to achieve the three primary targets of the European employment strategy.
The Council is waiting for the Commission to include this priority in the employment guidelines and the Commission expects to submit the employment guidelines in April 2003.
Finally, the Council recognises the importance of maintaining farming activities in order to achieve balanced agricultural development in the European Union and prevent a reduction in the population in rural areas.
In the context of the proposed revision or review of the early farm retirement scheme, I put it to the President-in-Office that perhaps he should consider making it possible for retiring farmers not to have to opt out totally, but to remain in partial employment, because even from a psychological point of view that is extremely important.
There are various problems in relation to the employment rate, which we are also trying to increase.
I referred in the form of an example to certain situations which are difficult to reconcile.
The proposal made in this respect, as I understand it, takes this approach and I am certain that the Commission could assess it and evaluate it in its proposals for the employment guidelines.
These proposals will also be a major reform of the employment guidelines decided five years ago in Luxembourg.
The Council wishes to state that it is not in a position at this stage to comment on the content of its position on this programme, given that the proposal on eLearning is being discussed at this stage within both the Council and the European Parliament.
I could say that the European Union and the Council, within the framework of the overall Lisbon strategy, have a clear interest in increasing knowledge - it is one of the basic objectives of the Lisbon strategy - and, of course, knowledge today is taking the form to which the honourable Member referred.
However, what I can say is that, at general policy level, it is, I believe, known and visible from numerous initiatives, that we are interested in promoting the competitiveness of the Union and hence the key factors that strengthen competitiveness, which nowadays without doubt include the factors referred to in the question.
Since Question Time at the February part-session was cancelled and the President, on account of point 2 of the Guidelines for the conduct of Question Time, did not place it on the March agenda, I shall repeat the question.
Minister, you spoke of this and that and in my country we would say that you were talking nothing but wood and hay.
I asked whether you considered that the EU peacekeeping operation commencing in the former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia had a mandate from the United Nations.
Mr President, I am pleased to be here to discuss the Commission's proposal for a directive establishing quality and safety requirements for human tissues and cells, submitted to the Council and the European Parliament in June last year.
May I also pay tribute to the successful and valuable work of the Council of Europe in the area of tissues and cells.
It is a logical follow-up to the directive on the quality and safety of blood.
Human tissues and cells have become an important part of health care.
The Commission's proposal sets out requirements for the donation, procurement, and testing of all donations of tissues and cells intended to be applied to the human body.
In the decision on the Sixth Framework Programme for Research, Parliament, Council, and Commission have agreed that Member States are free to regulate or ban the use of such cells, and that such decisions are respected at Community level.
Specific decisions to this effect are expected by the end of this year, and this will be the appropriate context to address this issue.
We should not forget that the severe shortages, which result in many patients dying, remain a key problem.
As organ transplantation is a highly specialised subject in its own right, the Commission is currently conducting a scientific evaluation of the available options.
Following the example of the blood directive and this proposal on tissues and cells, we would like to get the science right first, before tabling a legal instrument in this sensitive area.
The proposal provides for a mechanism to establish an EU procedure that will allow a coherent approach to the authorisation of imports and exports.
A certain flexibility to comply with third country legislation might be acceptable, but only if at least the same level of safety is ensured.
Article 152 aims to regulate public health issues.
The Commission considers that a well-balanced compromise has been presented in its proposal, which goes to the very limit of what is legally acceptable given the restrictions of the Treaty.
The relevant Council of Europe documents and the European Group on Ethics have stressed the principle of not-for-profit procurement.
This not-for-profit principle is relevant only for the act of procurement, not for further processing, manipulation, testing, or the manufacturing of products.
Finally, another major ethical issue is the question of donor consent.
The International Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine requires that the consent of donors must be ensured and that they receive appropriate information.
While this proposal fully respects these established principles, it does not set specific ethical rules.
It is for the Member States to set detailed ethical rules, in line with the requirements of subsidiarity.
I look forward to addressing the Commission's position on the amendments proposed in the report at the conclusion of this debate.
We can look back on an intensive process of debate, culminating in a public hearing on 29 January, which involved more than three hundred experts from the EU and the United States.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy supports the Commission's proposal, but also shares the view of many experts, such as the Standing Committee of European Doctors, that the proposal merely points in the right direction.
We want the Member States not only to encourage this principle - as the Commission proposes - but also to safeguard it.
However, we want to make it clear that the work with cells and tissue is a task which must involve both the public sector and industry - as the Commissioner has already explained.
I have not addressed this issue in my draft report, but I think that what the committee finally adopted is a good European compromise.
I believe that embryonic stem cell research is the wrong route to take, but nonetheless, I think we cannot go further than envisaged by the committee, and that we must leave scope for the Member States to decide whether they want to ban or permit embryonic stem cell research on principle or not.
The committee is in favour of the Directive covering in vitro research as well, but only as regards the donation and procurement of cells and tissue.
Amendment No 19 is therefore a good compromise.
There are individual speakers who say that Article 152 is not an adequate legal basis for the committee's more far-reaching proposals.
I therefore request the Commission to reconsider its restrained position on this issue.
We should send out a clear signal to the other institutions and adopt the committee's report.
Mr President, Commissioner, this proposal for a directive seeks to introduce safety and quality standards to regulate therapeutic activities based on the use of human-derived tissues and cells, which are carried out in Europe every year and now concern hundreds of thousands of patients.
Nevertheless, respect for ethical imperatives is vital in the use of tissues and cells of human origin.
The proposal for a directive in question therefore lays down high safety and quality standards relating to substances of human origin, in order to protect health.
In this connection, the requirement for informed consent on the part of the donor, supplied in a specific form either by the donor or by next of kin is particularly important, as is the prohibition of the removal of cells or tissues from foetuses originating from the voluntary interruption of pregnancy or from cloned human cells.
Personal and family data may not be disclosed to third parties (for example, employers or insurance companies); this is also to avoid the risk of unjustified discrimination.
On the basis of these considerations, I believe that, over all, the directive can be said to represent a step forwards in the harmonisation of Member States' legislation, allowing Member States to provide greater protection for the health of the European citizens.
Mr President, first of all, let me join the rapporteur in welcoming this report from the Commission.
The report to Parliament introduces improvements in some areas but perhaps left some issues needing clarification.
We should not include organs in this measure on cells and tissues.
Equally, this is not the time to permit cloned human embryos or hybrid human animal embryos to have their cells and tissues used for transplants.
The demise of Matilda, the Australian sheep which disintegrated, serves as an awful warning that this is a very young area of science and experiment and, leaving aside the ethical issues, one that should not be permitted now, simply on the grounds of the potential severe and uncertain impact on human health.
It is a problem that arose in Mr Nisticò's report on blood.
Voluntary donation is preferable but not always possible.
Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group I welcome this proposal and many of the amendments tabled by colleagues, and those tabled by the rapporteur who has already worked very hard to find a sensible way forward on this.
The proposal is indeed needed to set EU-wide minimum standards on the use of human tissues and cells.
There is a growing and cross-border trade in human tissues and cells across Europe for research in laboratories and clinics and for the production of medical and pharmaceutical products.
But with this increasing trade we need basic standards to guarantee human health, and safety standards on the issues of donation, procurement, compensation and consent.
We need to operate on a not-for-profit principle and apply that to all donations in all Member States across the whole of the European Union.
There is a danger that some people, driven by financial necessity, might perhaps be persuaded to donate cells, either here within the European Union or perhaps in the developing world, for financial gain.
These new rules will set the necessary minimum safety criteria for the use of tissues and cells across Europe.
Minimum standards on donation and compensation based on a not-for-profit system are essential.
However, I cannot entirely support all the amendments tabled by some of my colleagues.
Those amendments seeking, for example, to ban or restrict the use of embryonic stem cells totally are doing the European public no favours.
I wish that MEPs and pressure groups that argue the need so strongly to defend ethical principles were equally vocal in their defence of the sick and the vulnerable, like my young constituent Zain Hashmi, who this week was able with his parents to get permission to utilise these new technologies to protect his life and safeguard his future.
This compromise was difficult to achieve, between the advocates of subsidiarity, the supporters of ethics at any price and all those, including myself, who want to respond to the expectations and hopes placed in us by millions of patients in Europe, without, however, hindering the development of the European biotechnology sector.
Just to give one example, repairing the damage caused by major burns involves nearly twenty thousand European citizens every year, while 60 000 diabetics had to have amputations in 2002 because of the lack of any effective procedure for reconstructing skin.
We must be clear about this: all these people awaiting treatment will either not be treated or will be badly treated if tomorrow the European Parliament adopts a moralistic stance and prohibits, directly or indirectly, research into stem cells, embryos and germ gene therapy.
One fundamental reminder is necessary: we are concerned here with a public-health issue, based on Article 152 of the Treaty.
This is what lies at the heart of the proposal, and I have heard very little about it, since ethical issues have overtaken it.
Nevertheless, at the committee stage we did reach a compromise on organ donations, on the highly sensitive question of voluntary and non-remunerated donation, on umbilical cord blood donations and on fair access to the various treatments for all patients.
For all these reasons, the Liberal group, in self-defence, reserves the right to vote against this report and to go back to the Commission's balanced proposal.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Liese, ladies and gentlemen, we are familiar with the development of treatments based on the use of tissues and cells of human origin.
It was therefore a matter of urgency that the Commission should propose a draft directive seeking to draw up new quality and safety standards in order to increase public confidence in the use of such tissues and cells in and on the human body.
Unfortunately, as someone has already said this evening, there are too many amendments, leading in every direction, and this threatens to change the nature of the initial draft, thereby depriving us of regulations which are, however, urgently needed.
This is why this evening, in this debate, on behalf of the GUE/NGL, I should like to remind the House of the three fundamental principles which lead me to oppose many of these amendments.
The first principle is that we must not take advantage of a draft directive, the need for which nobody would deny, in order to broaden its scope so as to include sectors which will have to have special regulations, or which have such regulations already.
Many amendments contain these objectives, camouflaged, to a greater or lesser extent, by good intentions, and for that reason we shall not be voting in favour of them.
The second principle is that research and science should be enclosed by ethical rules in order to avoid irresponsible actions which are dangerous to the human species, but they must not be prevented by religious prohibitions, from whatever quarter.
The third principle is that the human body should not be available for sale, for purchase or for theft.
Mr President, we welcome many of the points contained in Mr Liese's report.
One compromise, however, is causing us problems, and that is the one concerning voluntary and non-remunerated donations of human tissues and cells.
In order to achieve such a guarantee, it is necessary to define specifically, in this directive, the legitimate and acceptable level of compensation, which in our opinion is the reimbursement of travelling costs and income lost during the period required for the journey, the donation, and any rest period which is necessary, plus refreshments and that sort of allowance, but nothing more.
Another fundamental principle of this directive is that of anonymity, which must be compatible with the traceability of the tissues and cells.
The proposal by the European Commission, enhanced by the amendments of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, has succeeded in taking both of these principles into account.
That would be to leave the door open to abuses of an ethical, eugenic or even racial nature.
Finally, we would ask the Commission, which did not want to include organs within the scope of this directive, to propose as a matter of urgency a specific text for establishing quality and safety standards in respect of organs.
We should continue to work in this direction, including during subsequent readings.
I know that he has consulted widely with the political groups in order to make his report as reflective as possible of the various concerns and opinions.
I commend the Commission for taking this initiative under Article 152.
The Commission is certainly aware of the speed and efficiency with which this proposal was dealt with in Parliament.
I strongly support the reinforcement of the consent principle so as to give the maximum protection to donors.
I want to ask the Commission when we can expect to see a proposal for a directive on organ transplants.
Mr President, I recognise the objections of Commissioner Byrne to having organs covered by this directive as well, but there are also arguments in favour of it.
Organs in their turn consist of different tissues.
The transition between organs and tissues is a fluid one.
In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Commission's representative supported my Amendment No 99 on cells.
The rapporteur has objections.
Otherwise we warmly support this directive, certainly because it refers to fundamental ethical principles that trade must meet.
That is why we need this proposed directive, the objective of which is to ensure that there is a framework of safety and quality standards for human tissues and cells.
As far as voluntary non-remunerative donation and donor anonymity are concerned, the directive cannot impose obligations on Member States by virtue of the European Treaty, but can only make recommendations.
Donation should also be voluntary, and therefore requires obligatory informed and written consent by the living donor.
The directive should be accompanied by much more detailed information.
This information should be more reliable and should be based on authentic scientific research.
For example, how many times have we been told that embryonic stem cells would treat incurable diseases, whereas so far nothing has been published to prove this?
I shall be supporting the position of the French Government on three points.
The retrodifferentiation of adult cells, achieved by transferring their nucleus, rather than to an egg cell without a nucleus, to a medium rich in nutritive elements and other growth factors, could make it possible to overcome the current ethical problems connected with the therapeutic use of stem cells from human embryos.
Thirdly, as regards the use of stem cells for research purposes, I hope that the rules laid down in the Sixth Framework Programme will always remain in force and that we do not let anything in by the back door today that should not be there.
Fourthly and lastly, I support the Commission's proposal that the directive should cover the use of cells and tissues for research purposes where this is carried out on human beings but not where experimental research is carried out in vitro or on animal models.
This also applies to the use of human tissue and cells.
We should capitalise on the positive opportunities afforded by these new developments as far as possible, even if it is clear that from today's perspective, the prospects are not always as promising as is suggested in some quarters.
The use of these new technologies must, however, be measured against the fundamental principles and rules which define the community of values that constitutes the European Union.
A fundamental pillar of this community of values is the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
Its basic values include, in particular, respect for human dignity, the principle of non-commercialisation of the human body, and the guarantee that cell and tissue donations may take place only on a voluntary basis, without pressure, and with an understanding of all the implications.
Let me underline one point in particular: respect for the traditions and cultural differences within the European Union requires that in this law too, Member States must be granted the right to ban the donation and use of cells from specific origins.
This applies particularly to the renunciation of the use of embryonic stem cells in favour of adult stem cells, which have been shown to be just as useful and, indeed, more promising in many cases.
I would also like to pay tribute, in particular, to his efforts to include social groups in the work on the report as well.
For us Greens too, it is very important - indeed, I would go as far as to say that it is the priority - to send out a very clear signal to the Member States that embryos may not be used for research purposes.
On the issue of embryonic stem cells, too, my position is quite clear: what we are saying is that adult stem cells are just as, if not more suitable.
In this area, far too many false hopes have been awakened for many years, instead of genuinely looking at alternatives.
In my view, it cannot be stressed often enough, here in Parliament and indeed elsewhere, that we need a very clear limit.
We are calling on the Commission to put forward a legislative proposal before July 2003, for the situation on organ donations in particular is making it increasingly clear that the human body or parts thereof are indeed becoming commodities.
For our part, as Radical members of the Emma Bonino List, we can only vote against all the amendments which seek to introduce such issues in this way.
We must not become a Parliament which persists in making every vote a vote on a moral principle, as if we were trying to establish a 'single European moral code'.
Mr President, I would first like to draw your attention to the excellent work undertaken by our fellow Member Mr Liese.
Work on this directive began during the Spanish Presidency of the European Union.
In my opinion Amendment No 30 establishes a number of basic conditions on respect for human dignity.
Keen as we are on the concept of voluntary, anonymous and non-remunerated donation, we would have liked to see a firmer stand taken on this subject, and we had already expressed this desire when we had the vote on the report on blood, and had occasion to reaffirm it when we examined the report on organs.
We deplore this and we therefore ask the Commission to carry out a regular evaluation of the progress made in this area at Member State level.
We must not ignore the fact that the safety and traceability of donations will be better guaranteed if those donations originate from a country within the European Union which is subject to our legislation.
Moreover, trafficking linked to trade in cells and tissues in certain third countries should make us extremely vigilant when we import such products, because if we are not vigilant we might be regarded as passive accomplices in such activities.
Finally, it seems to me important that the Member States and the Commission should establish a centralised data bank which would receive all available information on approved establishments, on the products handled, and on bio-monitoring.
I rehearsed the full title of this directive because it is important to recognise what it does encompass and what it does not encompass.
I do not have time to go into all the other problems with this report.
There are technical difficulties concerned with consent by donors, and anonymity of donors.
Very importantly, there are attempts to impose European prohibitions on ethical aspects of research and therapy which are clearly the subject of the subsidiarity principle and which it must remain the right of Member States to decide.
Unfortunately, the result contains many unacceptable points.
Pluripotent stem cells, on the other hand, can differentiate into any cell type but they can no longer be used to create a new human being.
These are also found in adult cells, and it is those that are more interesting from the point of view of therapeutic cloning.
The latest research points to the fact that some stem cells thought to be multipotent might well be pluripotent.
Mr President, the report and the proposal for a directive are important from health and safety points of view.
The amendment states that account should be taken of principles involving, for example, a ban on making the human body or its parts as such a source of financial gain, of the principle of informed consent and of that involving a ban on cloning.
Thirdly, Amendment No 46 points out that the removal of tissues from foetuses originating from the voluntary interruption of pregnancy shall not be permitted.
That is an important position if it is not to be possible to use a distorted utilitarian argument to put pressure upon someone facing a possible decision concerning abortion.
Fourthly, Amendment No 31 contains requirements for regulating, in particular, the use of germ cells, embryonic stem cells and foetal stem cells.
The use of cells that are of sensitive origin from an ethical point of view needs to be specially regulated, if that is not already the case, in the Member States.
Amendment No 82 addresses the issue of donor consent.
Sixthly, Amendment No 41 makes important clarifications and addresses the voluntary nature of donations.
At the same time, the Member States are given responsibility for devising more detailed rules.
After the committee adopted Amendment No 30, I felt a real need to add here that the Member States should, at the least, uphold the ban on research involving the destruction of human embryos.
I therefore appeal to the Liberal Group to reconsider whether they really are prepared, ultimately, to vote against the entire report.
However, my head tells me that the compromise identified by the committee is possibly better and forms a better basis for the European Union and the European Parliament.
Finally, let me make one comment about the legal basis.
Mr President, this interesting debate has highlighted the importance and the sensitivity of this proposal.
The Commission is the guardian of the Treaties.
We have to respect the advice of our legal service - advice also echoed by the legal service of the Council.
As I said in my opening address on this point, the Commission's proposal aims to take to the very limit what is legally acceptable, given the constraints of the Treaty.
Article 152 still allows us to take all necessary precautions to enforce the central requirement of the European Group on Ethics, namely in the protection of the health of the recipient.
It is neither legally possible, nor appropriate, for the Community to act in an area where it is best left to the Member States.
I wish to emphasise that decisions on the use of any specific type of cells and tissues - whatever the type - are a matter for our Member States.
If, however, any particular use of such cells is authorised in a Member State, then the directive kicks in, to require the application of all provisions necessary to protect public health.
As regards the exclusion of organs from the proposal, I reiterate that the Commission does not intend to drop the subject of organs from the agenda.
No-one respects the rights of this institution more than I do myself.
But I seek the same respect for my institution, which includes the right of initiative.
One of the justifications for the retention of this right of initiative is that the Commission brings forward a proposal when and if it is ready - but in this instance, when it is ready.
I cannot give a promise that I will have a legislative proposal before this House before this summer.
This initiative, which I support wholeheartedly, aims to make organ trafficking a criminal offence in all Member States.
In addition, we hope that a conference on organ transplantation, organised by the Italian Presidency in Venice this September, will help us to determine the way forward in this area.
In the meantime, the Commission is compiling information on the current situation with regard to organ transplantation in the Member States and applicant countries.
Returning to ethical issues, I have made clear that because of the legal position that has been underlined repeatedly by the legal services of the Council and the Commission, I cannot agree with a large number of the amendments on the table today.
These amendments concern, in particular, voluntary unpaid donation, the principle of not-for-profit procurement and the requirements for donor consent.
With these basic principles in our proposal, we adhere to international standards.
For example, if the donor is deceased, some presume consent whereas others do not.
On the other hand, consent issues are well regulated in all Member States and applicant countries, so the added value of binding provisions at EU-level is, in my view, very doubtful.
This dossier is one of the Greek Presidency's priorities as regards the health sector, which we hope can achieve a common position in the Council, following Parliament's opinion.
Through this proposal the Community can establish significant new standards for the health of our citizens.
Protecting and improving public health is, after all, at the very centre of our citizens' concerns and expectations.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow Thursday at 12 noon.
I recognise the major efforts made by both Parliament and the Council towards finding a satisfactory compromise.
The result is a balanced text taking into account the differing positions and interests of each party towards the goal of progressive harmonisation of the veterinary matters raised by the issue of pet movements.
The final obstacles preventing agreement were removed by the Conciliation Committee on 18 February.
However, as regards the amendments concerning comitology, the Commission takes the view that these do not conform to Decision 1999/468/EC, as Article 8 of that Decision should only cover implementation measures aimed at public health objectives.
The Commission therefore wishes to make the following declaration. 'The Commission considers that the wording of Article 24, paragraphs 2(1) and paragraph 3(1) of this regulation, is not in conformity with Decision 1999/468/EC, as Article 8 of that decision should only cover implementation measures aimed at public health objectives.
The agreement reached by the three institutions on this regulation represents a milestone in the establishment of the internal market and probably the most sensitive one in the animal health area, due to concerns in some Member States in relation to rabies.
Progress has been facilitated by the spectacular success over the past decade of our efforts to eradicate rabies within the European Union.
What has been commonly labelled the pet passport scheme will make it simpler to cross borders and at the same time ensure high safety standards and the protection of public health.
Due to vaccination campaigns the number of cases of rabies in cats and dogs dropped from nearly 500 in 1991 to a mere 5 in 1998 and, as the Commissioner says, it has almost been eradicated.
This success has enabled the Member States to adopt a set of common rules on pet animal movements which is very welcome.
Whilst there are exceptions for the so-called sensitive Member States - the UK, Sweden and Ireland for five years - in the other 12 EU countries proof of a valid rabies vaccination in the form of a passport document will be the only requirement for taking cats, dogs and ferrets between Member States as long as they also have an electronic microchip for identification, although some Member States may continue to use tattoos for an eight-year transition period.
The UK, Sweden and Ireland can still use quarantine for animals coming in from countries outside the EU where rabies is endemic, but for EU countries and countries where the disease is under control they will require vaccination and a follow-up immunity test before travel.
However, many countries are now moving away from use of this code and away from the strict rabies-free status; so adopting the code could actually unnecessarily exclude some countries from this pet travel scheme.
Similarly, although Parliament expressed concern about the inclusion of animals younger than three months in the scheme, as they could not have been vaccinated, we have been assured that this will not present a danger to public health and can therefore agree to that for 12 of the 15 countries.
There has also been a great deal of debate on the role of Parliament in agreeing any extension to the five-year transitional period for the UK, Sweden and Ireland.
I am pleased that agreement was reached on this point, as it is of paramount importance that decisions relating to a report which has been adopted under the codecision procedure should themselves be subject to codecision when being amended or reviewed.
The Commission will have sufficient time to consult Parliament and the Council following the scientific assessment of this scheme which will be carried out in 2008.
Similarly, comitology is now limited to implementation measures which Parliament could accept, and the delegation noted the Commission's statement on this.
This regulation has changed considerably since the Commission first published its proposal, including several aspects relating to animal health and affecting the legal basis used, but we have the basis of a good and effective scheme and one which everyone will welcome.
Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues in the other groups for their cooperation: the animal welfare intergroup for their support; several other organisations which have provided information and advice; and also the Commission and the Council for what turned out in the end to be a straightforward conciliation.
Firstly, many thanks to the Commission and the Commissioner.
In other words, a standard piece of give and take, the kind of thing that until a few years ago, until we had the present Commission and the present Parliament, was not possible.
The proposal would harmonise EU regulations.
The EU should adopt a set of minimum regulations and call upon all the EU countries to follow Sweden's, the UK's and Ireland's example.
This would take the form of a proposal that puts health and animal welfare above animal owners' freedom of movement.
By voting in favour, Parliament would be adopting the principle of harmonising down to a level corresponding to the lowest common denominator, at the same time as abolishing Sweden's, the UK's and Ireland's right to be pioneers.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This proposal consists of only one amendment added to the last item of the relevant Article of ten Directives on the marketing of seeds and propagating material.
The aim of the proposal is simple - to create a clear legal basis for financing Community comparative trials.
This initiative is in line with the European Parliament proposal to increase the transparency of the Commission budget.
As the Commission has confirmed over the past twenty-five years, agricultural crops such as cereals, fodder crops, and oilseed and fibre crops have been subject to Community comparative tests on the basis of the applicable legislation.
This post-control system for seed and propagating material marketed in the Community is recognised as being an extremely important tool for the harmonisation of marketing by Member States.
The planned tidying-up exercise, however, would be neither complete nor relevant if the comparative tests funded by the European Union were limited to currently certified seed and plants included in the Union's common catalogue.
The Commission's proposal must take into account the recently adopted legislative provisions in the area of processed products, as regards the adventitious or technically unavoidable presence of genetically modified seed in conventional varieties of seed.
In this sense, the sensitive issue of the risk of contamination of traditional seed by GMOs must be included in the series of directives concerning the marketing of seed with which we are dealing here today.
This issue cannot be dealt with by the committee procedure, because that would exclude Members of the European Parliament from the debate and prevent them from making proposals on this subject.
In effect, this proposal for a directive provides an opportunity to settle issues regarding the proven presence of genetically modified seed in conventional seed.
The Commission has been working for some considerable time on a directive which would legislate on additional conditions and requirements regarding the presence of genetically modified seed in batches of seed, planting sites, and details of the marking of such seed.
Unfortunately, the draft of the latest directive does not sufficiently take into account Directive 2001/18 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, which has come into force in the meantime.
To come back to my second point, it is important that the conservation species and varieties referred to in Directive 98/95 should be defined and tested for marketing in accordance with special criteria, and that will require an implementing regulation, something which we are still waiting for.
The level of that threshold should be established in accordance with Article 21 and set at the lowest possible level allowed in accordance with state-of-the-art scientific knowledge.
Moreover, appropriate measures must be taken during the transport and storage of traditional seed, so that the accidental or technically unavoidable nature of any GMO pollution can be proved.
In fact, although the directive already lays down that genetically modified seed must be labelled, it does not provide a solution to the problem of the risk of traces in traditional seeds, the rule being that such seed must not, in principle, contain any GMOs.
Finally, the directive already lays down that the Community may make a financial contribution to the carrying out of the tests laid down in Paragraphs 1 and 2.
The same treatment should be possible for the special comparative tests needed for seed and plants produced and cultivated for organic farming and for the utilisation and conservation of genetic diversity in plants.
For the sake of transparency, therefore, it will be necessary in future to establish a clear legal basis for a financial contribution, of whatever kind, and it is therefore necessary to make provision for Community financial measures which will be applicable to these comparative tests and which will include the necessary obligatory Community budget expenditure.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for being present in this debate.
Therefore it is quite important that we look at these.
One of the tasks is to utilise those resources which safeguard transparency and traceability for all market participants, and, of course, for consumers.
To this end, financial support in the sum of EUR 1 million is available, but as I have already said, this is a broad-based business.
The EU should deal comprehensively with the entire complex issue of GMOs within the framework of the Life Sciences and Biotechnology Action Plan, also as regards seed.
In advance of this process, the Commission is putting forward proposals which we do not find satisfactory.
Mr President, tidying up the rules, as the Commission intends in the present proposal, deserves the support of this Parliament.
In this new directive, account can also be taken of the latest developments in the field of seeds.
The rapporteur rightly argues that the new directive is incomplete if it takes no account of the specific requirements of biological agriculture.
Mr President, not only am I Right-wing in orientation, but I also sit on the right.
This system of follow-up controls is seen as a very important instrument to harmonise the marketing conditions in the Member States and is therefore also endorsed in the internal market.
These comparative tests must not, however, be restricted to those seed and plant varieties that have so far been certified and listed in the Union's common catalogue.
The presence of genetically modified organisms in seed, at least in the lower batches, is generally adventitious and often technically unavoidable.
We need harmonisation of the marketing conditions in the Member States.
This sounds quite simple at first, but it is actually extremely complicated, not only because there is a large number of products to regulate, but also because we must focus on upholding the same conditions as regards cultivation, care, and not least, quality definition.
For twenty-five years, comparative tests have been carried out in the Community on the basis of relevant legal provisions.
The report was adopted by Parliament on 24 October 2000, and today, two and a half years later, the Commission is still only at the stage of discussing the contents of Annexes I to IV.
The virus tests which are called for, for example, would result in very high costs, which could lead to a reduction of clones and thus a depletion of genetic resources.
The resultant question for all of us is how effective our cooperation is.
Today, however, we are discussing the financial contributions made by the Community for the comparative tests.
The Commission appreciates the broad acceptance of its proposal, and has examined in detail all the amendments proposed.
The request to ensure the inclusion in the Community comparative trials of organically produced seed, and seed falling in the area of plant genetic resources deserves consideration.
For this reason, Amendments 2, 4, 5, 6, and the relevant parts of Amendments 12 to 17, 19 to 21 and 24 to 29 are acceptable - subject to re-wording.
The compulsory indication of Community financial allocations laid down by parts of Amendments 12 to 17, 19 to 21 and 24 to 29 can be accepted only as a general recommendation to the Commission, again subject to rewording.
Concerning Amendment 22, the Council has already adopted the legal base for the implementation of measures for the marketing of seeds and plants for the conservation and diversity of genetic resources in Europe (for example, Article 21 of Council Directive 2002/54/EC on the marketing of beet seed).
The reference to financial and to other commitments of the Member States should take into account the specific competencies of the Member States.
Allow me now to turn to the important issue of the adventitious and technically unavoidable presence of GMOs in seeds of conventional plant varieties.
It is therefore being addressed in another proposal, in the context of the directives on the marketing of seeds.
A proposal for a Commission directive is being prepared, which will aim to set thresholds in this regard.
As a consequence, Amendments 1, 3, 23, and the relevant parts of Amendments 12, 13, 18, 19 to 21 and 24 to 29 cannot be accepted.
In relation to Amendments 24 to 29, they are not accepted on the basis that they repeat exactly the Commission proposal.
As the seeds thresholds for GMOs are based on the food labelling threshold, and as the labelling threshold will be discussed again in the next few months in Parliament during the second reading of the proposed GM food and feed regulation, the Commission will wait for the outcome of these discussions before proceeding with the question of GMO thresholds in seeds.
This issue has been dealt with by my colleague Commissioner Fischler, who is bringing forward a communication to the Commission within the next number of weeks on that issue which I expect will deal with that situation.
Finally, I would I reiterate my commitment, prior the adoption by the Commission of any Commission Directive on the subject, to listen to the views of all concerned, in particular the European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In July 2002 the Commission adopted a proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 94/35/EC on sweeteners for use in foodstuffs.
The main objective of this proposal is to authorise two new sweeteners that have received a favourable opinion by the Scientific Committee on Food: Sucralose and the salt of aspartame and acesulfame.
Furthermore, the Commission proposes to reduce the intake of cyclamate, as an already authorised sweetener, for which the Scientific Committee on Food has considerably lowered the acceptable daily intake.
The Commission also proposed to decide in comitology whether a substance fulfils the definition of a sweetener as laid down in the directive.
Such a decision is of technical nature and can already be taken by comitology for all other food additives according to existing legislation.
Mr President, Commissioner, representatives of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank my colleagues and the secretariat of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and also the staff of the appropriate Directorate-General, for their excellent cooperation.
As the Commissioner has just explained, the European Parliament is being asked to vote on the second amendment to the 'sweeteners' directive since its adoption in 1994.
The Directorate-General responsible is therefore proposing that two new sweeteners, namely sucralose and salt of aspartame-acesulfame, should be added to the positive list of sweeteners already approved in the European Union.
Studies, in particular those carried out in Denmark, have shown that a child weighing fifteen kilos or less might very rapidly reach the threshold of the acceptable daily intake (ADI), which could involve a risk to that child's health.
The Commission, as you have just reminded us, wants to be given the power to decide whether a substance falls within the 'sweeteners' category, without going through the process of approval by the European Parliament.
Even though Members of the European Parliament are aware of the technical nature of this type of decision, your rapporteur believes that the European Parliament's prerogative should be retained, since scientific expertise may be subject to controversy.
Your rapporteur would prefer to wait for this more general revision.
In any case, the absence of amendments on this point would seem to indicate that Members of the European Parliament would also prefer to put it off until the forthcoming general legislative revision.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy voted in favour of the request for the authorisation of the placing on the market of the two new sweeteners, but it also voted in favour of the adoption of an amendment requiring a re-evaluation of these two substances three years after the entry into force of the revised directive.
Your rapporteur is aware of the provisions of the directive, particularly as regards the monitoring system, but I would prefer to remind the European Commission and the Member States of their obligations regarding the monitoring of sweeteners and the collection of data.
The collection of information on real consumption in the European Union and on the possible effects of the consumption of sweeteners on human health must be organised as soon as the products containing those sweeteners are placed on the market, so as to enable a re-evaluation of existing information to be carried out within the time limits laid down.
It has to be admitted, however, that Member States are not doing enough to collect this information, and the European Commission does not always have the means to ensure that Member States observe the provisions contained in the directive, particularly with regard to reporting to the Commission.
Your rapporteur is well aware of the gap which exists between the adoption of legislation and its implementation, and I believe that the work of Parliament also includes reminding those responsible of the need to apply the law.
As far as cyclamates are concerned, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy voted in favour of adopting a stronger position than the one recommended by DG Health and Consumer Protection.
In effect, the committee is proposing to reduce cyclamate levels to 250 mg and to extend this provision to cover all drinks.
Moreover, this greater reduction is also necessary because it takes more account of the switch from a temporary ADI to a lower permanent ADI adopted by the Scientific Committee.
I shall not attempt to conceal my preference for the one that I and my political group have proposed, because it is the result of collective work and because I believe that consumers ought to know what ingredients or products the foods that are sold to them contain.
However, I am also prepared to accept Amendment No 12, with an oral amendment which will be proposed tomorrow.
It enables us to find a solution as far as this category of foods is concerned, and I believe that these two amendments propose an acceptable solution.
I hope, therefore, that Members will vote in such a way as to enable us to propose a solution on this point to the Council.
Having spoken about the technical aspects of my report, I shall now conclude my presentation of that report by referring, in broader terms, to the question of consumer protection, which in this case is linked to public-health issues.
However, the existence of products containing such sweeteners must not be allowed to hide the very serious public-health problem of obesity.
Mr President, you are obviously in a generous mood tonight.
I start by thanking the rapporteur for her remarks and for her work in committee.
They say these products are safe and the Commission is right to accept that advice.
It has already been approved in some 45 countries.
However, now science shows that a reduction of the permitted level from 400 mg/l to 350 mg/l is all that is needed.
To go further has no basis in science, except for a tiny sample of 43 children in Denmark, which was itself rejected by the Danish Food and Veterinary Administration.
The acceptable daily intake - the ADI - is not only the favoured measurement of the FAO and WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives, but it also sets an intake level - not a maximum for a single day, but an average over a lifetime.
The proposed ADI is 7 mg/kg of body weight.
Thus all seemed plain sailing, until we had the rapporteur's proposal to reduce the figure to 250 mg, whereupon we had the Commission's brainstorm.
If the Commission ignores the advice of its own scientists, who can we trust?
In December 2002, the Scientific Committee on Food, in cooperation with the French and British food authorities, concluded that there is no reason to adjust the approval of aspartame in any way.
A new report on the evaluation of aspartame would lead simply to negative publicity.
I put that before you and leave it in your good hands, Mr President, and exhort the services, if possible, to look at this before we come to vote on the matter tomorrow.
I, however, tend to take the view of the rapporteur and of those of my political Group in the Committee of which we are all members.
My second and last point relates to the reduction of cyclamate levels.
Mr President, I hope that you will not be any more strict with me than with other Members.
I should therefore like to give you my opinion on what seem to me to be the main points, starting with the addition to the list of sweeteners of a new sweetener called sucralose, and I should like to draw your attention to the fact that sucralose is no ordinary substance.
I am astonished, therefore, at a proposal which seems to treat as something quite commonplace the inclusion of this new sweetener in the list of approved sweeteners.
My second point refers to aspartame.
On this subject, the European Commission is proposing to amend the maximum level for use in water-based drinks.
I would draw Members' attention to the fact that sweeteners, and therefore cyclamates, are often present in drinks or other products widely consumed by young children, so that the acceptable daily intake for this type of sweetener is easily exceeded.
The trouble with sweeteners in the additives category is that they excite fundamentalist reactions of exactly the same type as genetically modified organisms.
If so, she should share the evidence with us, because there is no point in tabling an amendment like this without giving us that information.
Secondly, in relation to Amendment 8 - which has been mentioned by more than one Member - it worries me more for the process by which it was agreed than for the substance that it contains.
When it was moved in the committee by the rapporteur, the Commission indicated willingness to accept a change from the level of 350 mg/l to 250 mg/l.
In my opinion, the Commission's proposal does have the scientific rigour required when dealing with such issues.
The Commission's initial proposal was to set the maximum dose at 350 mg/l, in line with the ruling by the Scientific Committee on Food.
Parliament cannot and must not take political opinions or compromises into account when dealing with as technical a subject as additives.
If the Commission really believes that a maximum permitted dose of cyclamates of 250 mg/l is more appropriate it should withdraw its initial proposal.
Reference is made to a study carried out in Denmark in 2001.
She has agreed to the proposed authorisation of two new sweeteners and to the reduction of the use of a further, already authorised sweetener.
In the latter case, the rapporteur even wished to go further than the Commission's proposal - by seeking to reduce the level of cyclamates in both soft drinks and juice or milk-based drinks to 250 milligrams per litre (Amendments 1 and 8).
The Commission can accept these amendments.
I have been asked to give more details in relation to that and I am happy to do so.
However, in accepting their advice on an acceptable daily intake, it is the job of the risk managers - the Commission, the Council and Parliament - to set the maximum permitted doses in particular foodstuffs.
However, the Commission, in proposing to accept a lower limit of 250 milligrams per litre in soft drinks, did not act on a whim of any individual official.
A clear distinction must be made between the acceptable daily intake of a food additive which is purely based on science and the maximum permitted use level of a food additive in a given foodstuff which is determined taking into account a series of criteria laid down in the legislation.
In the present case the acceptable daily intake for cyclamates has been lowered from 11 to 7 milligrams per kilogram of body weight by the Scientific Committee on Food.
However, the Parliament has introduced several additional amendments to the Commission proposal.
Amendment 4 calls for the re-evaluation of the authorisation of two sweeteners - aspartame and stevioside.
Furthermore, the amendment would require the Commission to present a report on the process of authorisation of aspartame by the US Food and Drugs Administration.
To this end, the scientists have reviewed all the scientific literature published since the last opinion on aspartame - amounting to around 150 articles.
The resulting opinion, adopted as recently as December of last year, fully reconfirmed the safety of aspartame and that the intake of this sweetener remains well below the acceptable daily intake.
The leaves of Stevia and the sweetener extracted from this plant, stevioside, have also been thoroughly examined by the Scientific Committee on Food.
Turning to the request to examine how aspartame was approved in the United States, it is not the competence of the Commission to enquire how an authorisation has been granted in a third country.
As regards the protection of the consumer, I would like to reassure honourable Members that proposals for authorisation of food additives under EU legislation are done on the basis of a risk assessment undertaken by the Scientific Committee on Food and, in the future, by the European Food Safety Authority.
If the result of this risk assessment is favourable, the Commission proposes the use of an additive after verifying that all the criteria for authorisation of a food additive are met.
The proposed conditions of use are based on the technological need and on intake data gathered by the Member States.
This process of risk analysis is fully independent from what is done in other countries.
The Commission is satisfied that this process is carried out in a transparent and independent manner in the EU.
Amendment 5 addresses the review of the conditions of use for the two newly proposed sweeteners.
In fact, the review of authorised food additives is required in the overall framework directive and in the three specific directives on the various classes of additives.
Article 8 of the Sweeteners Directive obliges Member States to monitor regularly the consumption of sweeteners.
Therefore, the Commission is in a position to identify whether the intake of specific additives would exceed safe levels both in adults and children.
On the contrary, to gather data on the two sweeteners before they are fully established on the market runs the risk that their intake would be underestimated.
Therefore, because this amendment duplicates existing requirements and because the deadline is not realistic, the Commission cannot accept Amendment 5.
Two further amendments (Amendments 2 and 3) would refuse comitology for the decision as to whether or not a substance should be considered as a sweetener according to Directive 94/35/EC.
Therefore, the Commission cannot accept Amendments 2 and 3.
Therefore, the Commission can agree to the deletion of the proposal on fine bakery wares (Amendment 7).
However, the alternative wordings proposed in Amendments 12 and 13 are not clear and would render the implementation of the directive difficult.
Finally, two amendments have been tabled that aim to ban cyclamates and sucralose.
Both substances have been evaluated by the Scientific Committee on Food and have been assigned an acceptable daily intake.
That means that these substances are safe if their consumption stays below the acceptable daily intake.
Parliament proposes to reinforce these measures and the Commission can support that.
But as the Commission considers these sweeteners to be fundamentally safe, there are no reasons to deprive consumers and the food industry of their use.
The Commission cannot therefore accept Amendments 9, 10 and 11.
In summary, the Commission can accept Amendments 1, 6, 7 and 8, but cannot accept Amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.45 p.m.) . (DE) I voted in favour of the reports on enlargement; my reason for doing so was that I regard this enlargement through the accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, as well as of Cyprus and Malta, which belong to Europe, as right and as an imperative necessity.
In view of the fact that the Iron Curtain fell almost fifteen years ago, it is not appropriate to take a small-minded view of the difficulties of all kinds, primarily financial, numerous though these certainly are.
That is why we accompanied our approval in principle with a text citing ten essential requirements for a freer Europe.
In particular, we request that the basic treaty that will result from the current Convention and the future IGC is only signed after enlargement, in other words after 1 May 2004, when the Union will have 25 Members.
In this way, the new Members will be able to participate fully in the final drafting of the text.
