President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) The European Union is closely following the situation in Burma, or Myanmar.
The Council joins the European Parliament in appealing to Burma not to extend Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi's house arrest.
On her behalf and on behalf of the Commission, I would like to say a few things about Burma.
In a couple of weeks, on 10 May, the Burmese people will be asked to approve or reject a constitution.
The ruling junta has done exactly as it pleases in this process.
Given the absence of tangible projects, on 29 April the General Affairs Council will discuss all the possible operations the European Union could carry out to influence the situation in Burma.
The EC Regulation entered into force on 10 March and its annual review is due to take place at the end of this month.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, first of all we want to call on the Burmese regime: to release political opponents and the more than 1 800 political prisoners, including Aung San Suu Kyi, the leaders of the '88 Generation Students and the leaders of the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy arrested in 2005; to account for all the casualties and missing persons from last September's crackdown on protests by Buddhist monks and democracy activists, including the whereabouts of missing monks and nuns; to secure access to Burma for the incoming UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Burma and to permit opposition political parties to meet with the Special Envoy.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Barrot, you referred to a balanced approach.
We in the European Union should also confront this problem.
It is incumbent on us within the European Union to continue the strong messages of support that we gave in September 2007 to the people who are campaigning in Burma.
The presence of military personnel in government is thus going to be included formally in the constitution, in violation of all international standards and in the absence of any observers, while all those who oppose the current regime are excluded from electoral representation.
These are moreover the same responsibilities that China has in Darfur, in Tibet and in many other parts of the world where human rights violations are being perpetrated, not least in China itself.
Basically I also agree with the points put very cogently by Mrs Flautre. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time, the Council will decide whether to maintain its common position on Burma and whether to maintain sanctions.
Almost 2 000 political prisoners are being detained there.
Opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi has been under house arrest for years.
In spite of the diplomatic pressure, in spite of the exemplary action of Aung San Suu Kyi, who, I must remind you, was awarded the Sakharov Prize in 1990, and in spite of the efforts of international civil society, the situation has not improved: because they do not have the right to vote, 400 000 Buddhist monks will not be able to take part in the referendum.
Disgracefully, Europe has not done enough to help the Burmese - their courageous monks, their political prisoners, their brave leader Aung San Suu Kyi - to get freedom and to get rid of the junta oppressors.
As regards weapons, and in response to Mr Romagnoli, the European Union has prohibited the export of any kind of weapons or associated materials to Burma.
We must continue to strengthen our policy, and in this regard I would like to point out that we recently stepped up the sanctions targeting the regime and the leaders in particular.
I would add that, as far as the political prisoners are concerned, the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 29 April will be an opportunity to send a message to the regime once again to ask it to put an end to the intimidation and imprisonment.
We are extremely committed to maintaining solidarity with Aung San Suu Kyi.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 24 April 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - I sincerely welcome this resolution which demonstrates Parliament's continued concern with the situation in Burma.
