This implies responsibility, we ourselves have a responsibility for the stability of the small country and Euro-Atlantic integration.
It would be desirable if everyone took that responsibility seriously. (DE) Mr President, today's vote is a breakthrough for Macedonia's early accession to the European Union.
In the course of the last 25 years China has created opportunities for 400 million of its citizens, lifting them out of extreme poverty.
Trade between Africa and China is estimated to have increased from USD 4 million in 1995 to USD 55 million in 2006.
Looking at the report, and it is actually quite a fair report, I think as EU and Member States of the EU we should welcome Chinese investment in Africa, particularly investment in infrastructure, because investment in infrastructure allows local entrepreneurs and local citizens to create wealth for themselves and to trade their way out of poverty.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg, proposing that the proposal for a codified version of the Council Regulation on the application of Article 81(3) of the Treaty to certain categories of agreements, decisions and concerted practices between liner shipping companies (consortia) be approved at first reading in the codecision procedure.
The codification process is provided for by an interinstitutional agreement of 20 December 1994 resulting from a political intention expressed by the European Council in December 1992, providing for an accelerated procedure for the speedy adoption of codified instruments.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by Mrs Barsi-Pataky, which proposes, subject to amendments, that the amended proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the further implementation of European satellite radionavigation programmes (EGNOS and Galileo) be approved.
in writing. - (SV) We have accepted the proposal negotiated between the Council and Parliament regarding the EGNOS and Galileo satellite radionavigation programmes in which Parliament had already, contrary to our opinion, decided the budget issue.
However, we welcome the fact that the negotiated proposal enables the European Parliament to evaluate and influence the projects.
in writing. - (PT) The European Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), as the first Community infrastructure and due to its space-related and technological nature, can only be achieved through a common will.
The European GNSS is conceived to consist of two programmes: EGNOS and Galileo.
The importance of the GNSS lies in particular in the fact that it is an alternative and complementary system to the US and Russian systems.
in writing. - (SV) Galileo is an example of a large-scale technical project which no individual Member State can complete alone.
It is down to the Commission to present a more satisfactory financing solution for this important project.
in writing. - I welcome the prospect of Galileo finally being launched.
I voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (DE) GPS currently already provides many of the services that would be offered by the European satellite radionavigation programme Galileo.
In view of the strategic important of the project, I voted in favour of the report, although the issue of funding has not yet been fully resolved.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the report regarding the amendment of the Council Regulation on continuing to implement European satellite radionavigation programmes.
The European Parliament and the European Union Council admit the strategic importance of this project and support its achievement.
in writing. - (PT) The Directive in question aimed to create a uniform status for third-country nationals residing legally in the EU territory, after a period of five years of legal, continuous residence in a Member State.
The assessment of these transfer applications therefore continues to be governed by the 1951 Geneva Convention and by the Council of Europe's European Agreement on Transfer of Responsibility for Refugees.
Given this situation, it is also vital to ensure that the second Member State in question observes the principle of non-refoulement, so that the person in question is not sent back to a country where he or she would be in danger.
in writing. - (FR) The report by Mrs Roure, like the Directive it is intended to amend, is not acceptable.
in writing. - (SV) The report contains many proposals on integrating people who have been granted international protection.
I find this a logical amendment of the previous Directive and have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (IT) Thanks to the drugs strategy for 2005-2012, the European Union has laid the foundations for combating a worrying phenomenon which is growing steadily, especially among the most vulnerable groups such as young people and women, namely the spread of drugs in Europe.
in writing. - (SV) The rapporteur requires that an organisation for actors from civil society at European level should have a clear added value compared with national, regional and local civil society organisations.
in writing. - (FR) As shadow rapporteur for the Socialist Group, I have devoted a great deal of time and energy to this subject with a view, as far as the substance is concerned, to explaining the need for more dialogue with civil society on the fight against drugs and, as far as the form is concerned, proposing a text that can be read and understood by everyone.
in writing. - Drug abuse is a prominent problem in societies across Europe, and Scotland is no exception.
I voted in favour of the report.
There are increasingly vocal calls for the legalisation or liberalisation of drugs, but even in Switzerland, after almost 15 years of handing out heroin, hopes that this would help addicts overcome their addiction have finally been dashed.
in writing. - (PL) I welcome the discussion on drugs.
I voted in favour of the resolution because I support any measure to combat drugs.
in writing. - (IT) I believe that it is necessary, not just at European level but also nationally and locally, to promote a dialogue with and between the various civil society stakeholders so as to avert the terrible dangers represented by drugs.
in writing. - (SK) The motion for a resolution on organ donation and transplantation is a part of a world-wide debate on child safety.
We must combat trafficking in organs and tissues, which should be universally banned, in particular where it concerns the transplantation of organs and tissues from minors.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management as regards adjustment of the multiannual financial framework, on the basis of the report by Mr Böge.
That adjustment had become unavoidable because of the delay in adopting certain operational programmes under headings 1B and 2, EUR 2 034 million at current prices of the appropriations set aside for the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Funds, rural development and the European Fisheries Fund which could not be committed in 2007 or carried forward to 2008.
It was therefore becoming sensible for that amount to be transferred to subsequent years in accordance with paragraph 48 of the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, increasing the relevant expenditure ceilings for commitment appropriations.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for the report regarding the adjustment of the multiannual financial framework, presented by our colleague Böge.
The amounts not used in 2007 from the commitment appropriations for the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund, the Rural Development Fund and the European Fund for Fisheries should be carried forward for the upcoming years.
Most of the 45 delayed operational programmes come from the new Member States.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by Mrs Carlotti on the implementation of the programming of the 10th European Development Fund (EDF) and, as the report indicates, I regret that the fund has not been incorporated in the Union budget, which would have allowed democratic scrutiny.
At a time when the Doha agenda of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) is at a virtual standstill, it is becoming urgent for the European Union to use its development instruments to participate in this ambitious, just and commendable plan to eradicate world poverty.
It is essential that documents such as the Paris Declaration of March 2005 be taken seriously and periodically revised to produce the net aid figures.
It is nevertheless true that a dreadful lack of coordination between the Member States led to cutbacks in their official development aid, from 0.4% of GDP in 2006 to less than 0.38% in 2007.
This tiny percentage represents a loss of 1 700 million euros.
in writing. - I welcome the Carlotti report on the implementation of the programming of the 10th European Development Fund (EDF).
I voted in support of the report.
It works in particular on achievement of the Millennium Goals set in the United Nations in 2000.
Finally, Parliament would like to see the EDF incorporated in the general budget of the Union, in order to make European policies more coherent and improve democratic scrutiny of its management.
in writing. - (PT) The implementation of the budget of the 10th European Development Fund must not be assessed in purely accounting terms.
in writing. - (SV) When the EU, the world's largest donor of aid, operates in the developing world, our values must be clear.
Aid does good only if it benefits the citizens, therefore we as donors must be able to set criteria to encourage the development of democracy, human rights and a functioning civil society.
These should also be able to be covered by the European Investment Fund, as such operations reduce human suffering and prevent catastrophe in a very real way.
in writing. - The Green Group will not vote in favour of the Meijer report on Macedonia.
in writing. - (CS) FYROM is one of the few countries in the world whose name has not been officially recognised by all other countries.
Article 31 welcomes the police raid on a weapons cache.
In relation to amendment 13 on the name issue negotiations, we voted against this amendment.
in writing. - (EL) The MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece (KKE) have voted against the report.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the excellent own-initiative report by Mrs Gomes on China's policy and its effects on Africa.
in writing. - (NL) The Gomes report rightly points to various unacceptable Chinese practices in Africa, and sometimes gets down to the nitty-gritty.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Gomes report on China's policy and its effects on Africa because I consider that, in light of the growing Chinese presence in Africa, the European Union must try, by adopting a common position on dialogue, to encourage China to base its political and economic actions in Africa on criteria which will not prevent the promotion of peace, human security, rule of law or sustainable development.
in writing. - (FR) The Committee on Development has drawn up a very balanced report on China's policy and its effects on Africa.
There is also concern about the risk that China might export some of its worst home practices to Africa ... (Explanation of vote cut pursuant to Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (DE) I would like to take the opportunity afforded by this explanation of vote to express my warm thanks to the rapporteur, Ana Maria Gomes.
in writing. - Ana Gomes' report on China's policy and its effects on Africa highlights both the positive move Beijing has made by engaging with Africa, while also making the point that China's policy requires improvements.
It is with these views in mind that I voted in favour of the report's recommendations.
in writing. - The report by Ms Ana Maria Gomes covers many important aspects.
Europe must sit up and take note of this situation and it must try to define a strategic partnership with both Africa and China to ensure the sustainable development of the African continent.
in writing. - (PT) The report in question correctly defines the current state of Chinese policy in Africa, describing in detail the investments, financing and political consequences.
In the chapter on what should be done with regard to the (correct) portrayal of Chinese policy in Africa and its consequences, there is no guidance on what the EU's strategy should be, in partnership with countries such as India, Brazil and (an unacceptable omission) the United States.
in writing. - (IT) The report by Ana Maria Gomes on 'China's policy and its effects on Africa' highlights the primordial role now occupied by Beijing in Africa's diplomatic, economic and political equilibrium.
in writing. - (SV) Africa is a continent in need of aid, stronger trade links and increased participation in the globalisation which is creating greater welfare for all.
The fact that more and more countries are interested in Africa boosts its development.
