We have to remember that Natalia Estemirova, Zarema Sadulayeva, Alik Dzhabrailov and many others who have suffered and lost their lives in their defence of human rights deserve the support of all of us.
I would like to tell you, firstly, that we are fully in agreement with the joint resolution with regard to Natalia Estemirova, Zarema Sadulayeva and Alik Dzhabrailov.
Only this year in January, Stanislav Markelov, the human rights lawyer who represented the assassinated journalist Anna Politkovskaya, was gunned down in the middle of the afternoon in downtown Moscow.
On the same occasion, Anastasia Baburova, a journalist who tried to protect him, was also shot and died.
In July, Natalia Estemirova, a well-known Russian human rights activist and journalist, was found dead in Ingushetia after being abducted by armed men in neighbouring Chechnya.
In August, journalist Malik Akhmedilov was shot dead shortly after leaving his home in Dagestan.
Respect for human rights should be a key issue in relations between the European Union and Russia.
Natalia Estemirova, Stanislav Markelov, Zarema Sadulayeva, these are examples of murders that are truly shocking.
Today, on 17 September, I have to remind you all of a sad anniversary, namely the 70th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Poland.
Following this invasion, Soviet troops shot at least 21 768 Polish citizens.
This matter is becoming an inherent part of the new agreement between the EU and Russia. (LT) This debate and the European Parliament resolution on the murder of human rights activists in Russia is particularly important, especially now as we hear one news report after another on the murders in Russia of the human rights defenders Natalya Estemirova, Alik Jabrailov, Zarema Sadulayeva and others.
The European Union cannot remain indifferent to the brutal killing of human rights activists.
In our relations with Russia we must underline and we do underline that investigations into these murders take too long and as a rule end without establishing who was guilty.
Exactly 70 years ago, on 17 September 1939, the Red Army - in collusion with Hitler - occupied one third of Poland, which was then fighting against the German invasion.
To us, 17 September will forever remain a day of shame for Stalin's Russia.
The murder of Natalia Estemirova prompted great sadness in all of us in this House, since we learnt of her abduction on the very day when we gathered here for the first time, and heard of her murder just a few hours later.
That is why I shall take great pleasure in voting in favour of this resolution and in following up its appeals to the Russian authorities to protect human rights activists.
I would like to underline that Mrs De Keyser's achievements in defending human rights cannot be brought into question in a discussion of this nature.
There was also a breach of international agreements in August 2008 when, during the conflict between Russia and Georgia, Russian armed forces attacked inhabited areas and failed to protect the civilian population from a violation of their rights by armed fighters from South Ossetia on territory which de facto came under Russian control.
However, things are different when it comes to human rights being grossly violated in a European Union Member State, as happened in my country, Hungary, where people were shot in the eye at a mass gathering of several thousand people staged by the party of the man currently presiding this session, Vice-President Pál Schmitt, to commemorate the anniversary of the 1956 revolution and fight for freedom.
We pay tribute to all those who have lost their lives and to those who continue their work in such an environment.
Innocent civilians, law enforcement personnel and government officials have lost their lives in the ongoing struggle in the region.
The EU must continue to speak out against this violence and insist that Russia uphold the commitments it has entered into as a member of the United Nations, the OSCE and the Council of Europe.
The safety of human rights defenders must be the first concern.
