Mr President, at the last sitting, we were all horrified at the possibility that Safiya Husseini might be executed in Nigeria.
Yes, Mr Maaten, but we have an agenda established.
The aim of this own initiative report is to assess policy to date, to urge the European Union to implement all the necessary policies to promote the social, political and economic rights of women in the Mediterranean and to urge the partner countries to assume their responsibilities and rise to the challenges inherent in this objective by all possible means.
Violence, poverty and poor health among women are also commonplace, as is their absence from or under-representation in decision-making posts and, hence, their absence when Euro-Mediterranean cooperation is being negotiated and planned.
Our committee calls for the effective implementation of what has already been laid down in the Barcelona Declaration regarding progress towards democracy and respect for human rights and for the gender dimension to be incorporated in the three pillars of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
The European Commission and the Commissioner, who is present here, are experienced in drawing up and applying this sort of programme in the Member States and candidate countries and we believe that this experience will stand them in good stead when it comes to drawing up the regional Mediterranean programme.
Similarly, our committee is in favour of supporting women's organisations in the partner countries and of networking them with women's organisations in the Member States of the European Union.
We also paid close attention to the problems of women immigrants from these countries in the European Union and we call for the red tape and other obstacles to legal immigration into the Member States of the European Union to be lifted, because we believe that they result in poverty, marginalisation and the exploitation of human and, more specifically, women's lives.
These phenomena have been denounced repeatedly, both by our committee and by the European Parliament as a whole.
In these areas, health problems are one of the most serious situations they face, not only through a lack of healthcare, but also because of a lack of prevention.
These problems affect the whole population in general, but particularly women.
This is particularly surprising, given that we know the MEDA programme has had problems in this House, because not even half of what was intended has been implemented.
The MEDA programme, which is aimed at cooperation programmes in the Mediterranean areas, in particular the Southern Mediterranean, would be a wonderful instrument for creating specific programmes for women, aimed at promoting the role of women and increasing the living standards of women, which would be an advantage to the whole population, since we all know how important women are in the least-developed societies and, in particular, in traditional societies, where women bear the greatest responsibility for the family which, furthermore, usually includes a large number of children.
In reality, the work in committee has been a complete collaboration between all the groups, and I hope that the House will reflect this in its vote this morning.
We have managed to achieve compromises on almost all aspects of a problem which has become very serious, because it affects the great majority of women in the associated countries of the Mediterranean.
It is true that there are slight differences between the various countries, but, in general, the situation of women in these countries is of great concern: illiteracy, early school leaving, unemployment, violence against women and health problems, originating from their reproductive health and the lack of adequate services for women.
The report exhaustively describes all these situations.
The European Union and the Member States must renew their commitment to the women of the Mediterranean countries.
In very many cases, cooperation agreements do not fulfil the commitment to deal with the special situation suffered by these women.
It is what we call "the transverse introduction of the gender perspective", because the situation suffered by women is not the same as the situation of men and therefore it is necessary to analyse what this situation is from the outset, in order to provide the tools necessary to resolve it.
Unfortunately, the regional programme within the framework of the MEDAs has once again been delayed and therefore this report is going to see the light of day long before this regional programme is implemented.
I hope that by then we can take up the fundamental ideas contained in this report.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to lament the situation suffered by women in many countries of the world, especially in this region which is so close to us, without taking action.
It is an urgent issue and we must promote the necessary mechanisms in order to ensure that the lives of women in these countries really becomes better and easier.
We are well aware that we very often only have men around the negotiating table.
Not only is this cooperation a safe way of promoting Europe' s economic interests; its key objective is to establish an area of peace, security, stability and welfare.
In all of this, women occupy a key position.
The key obstacle to the emancipation or liberation of the women in these countries - as was the case for a long time in our own countries - is the equivalence of religion and politics, an equivalence which makes the provisions of the Sharia the sole legal basis for laws on the situation of women in those countries, and this is becoming increasingly the case.
If we take that approach, we will not be enabling either the women or ourselves to make any useful contribution to the growth - the cultural as well as economic growth - of these countries, and we will not be enabling these peoples as a whole to escape from a cultural and religious situation in which the human and civil rights of people in general and women in particular are being trampled underfoot.
The first is that the presence of women at all levels of social, economic, financial and political life in conditions of equality, not least as regards decision-making, is a prerequisite for democracy and therefore for peace and well-being.
Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to thank Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou for her sound analysis and for her excellent collaboration in the drafting of this report.
This report reminds us how important it is for the European Union to promote the role of women in economic and social life, both by means of Community policies and in the context of cooperation with third countries and the Mediterranean countries.
I would simply like to add a few words on the current situation, which is impeccably described in this report.
Although circumstances have improved for women in some Mediterranean countries, there is still a long way to go, in particular as regards access to education, vocational training and the labour market, but also in social matters, with regard to single and divorced women, single mothers and women in rural areas.
The European Union must also ensure that the good intentions stated during discussions on partnership or association agreements are in fact followed by practical measures, with a view to increasing social cohesion.
This report will be a huge help to the women of the Mediterranean who, despite some improvement in their situation over recent years, still suffer sexual discrimination and inequality.
Without doubt, irrationalism and fanaticism are the main obstacles both to the emancipation of women and to social and economic progress in general in these countries.
Thirdly, it appears to me that we are, from the point of view of consistency, far too amicable, far too calm, far too balanced.
I believe we must in future exert much more pressure on this issue.
The Barcelona process is basically a means for dialogue between the Community and the countries of the Mediterranean.
Needless to say, this dialogue cannot simply be based either on the principles of the European Union or on the principles underpinning the regimes in these countries.
The financial tools for the Barcelona process are ÌEDA I and ÌÅDA II.
The difficulties are caused, in large part, by our inability to close the gap between administrative systems and, in even larger part, by differences in principle.
And, at the heart of these measures, there must be measures for women and for involving women in education, the job market and social and economic life.
It is the Commission's job, following the forum held during the Belgian presidency, to prepare a specific regional programme during 2002 containing measures on the job market, women's networks and easier access for women to financing by developing initiatives which also relate to training.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, almost two years ago, we adopted the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The right to knowledge and, consequently, the right to know how to read, write and count are part of this Charter.
This right to knowledge is not currently realised, however, as 10 to 20% of the population of the European Union, or as many as 30 % if we count the candidate countries, are considered to be illiterate: 45% in Portugal, 35% in Italy, 22% in Ireland and Great Britain, 15% in Germany and France and, to add the candidate countries: 42% in Slovenia and Poland, 33% in Hungary, 29% in Bulgaria and 20% in Lithuania.
However, although the European Commission and our institutions have produced a number of documents, there are still a number of obstacles: gaps due to a lack of reliable data, the lack of clarity of certain programmes proposed and policies which are still insufficiently integrated.
It is with this in mind that I call on the Commission to submit to Parliament and the Council a Green Paper on Illiteracy, together with a timetable for achieving tangible objectives along the lines of the social agenda, precisely defining the measures to be taken at European level.
In the same vein, I call on the Commission, in connection with the employment guidelines, to propose specific indicators and benchmarks relating to illiteracy, in close cooperation with the social players.
Lastly, I would like to say, with regard to the amendments tabled recently, in particular by the Group of the Greens, that I am in favour of Amendment No 4 and that I would have been in favour of Amendment No 2 had it been considered as an additional item.
As for Amendment No 3, even though I am not against it in principle - the amendment requesting a Green Paper on illiteracy and mathematical illiteracy - I call for a vote against it because I think that, in the wording "Green Paper on Illiteracy" , the problem of mathematical illiteracy is obviously included.
The idea that functional illiteracy affects over 10% of the European Union' s population is horrifying, to say the least, in a developed society in which Europe is pursuing ambitious goals such as those set by the Lisbon Council: firstly, the need for every citizen to have the necessary skills to be able to live and work in the new information society; and secondly, to make Europe the most competitive, dynamic economy in the world.
The resolution focuses on certain points which I would like to mention briefly: firstly, knowing how to read and write is a fundamental right which must be guaranteed to all people; secondly, combating illiteracy is essential because it secures and strengthens the freedom of the individual; thirdly, the task of combating this disturbing situation must be undertaken by society as a whole and by public authorities and administrations in particular; fourthly, 'returning' illiteracy, which particularly affects elderly people, especially those in danger of social exclusion - who, as they lose their self-sufficiency, are obliged to live in sheltered accommodation, leaving their family and socio-cultural environment behind them for good - is a scourge which must be combated.
The situation of these people severely restricts their ability to find decent work and to integrate themselves into the society in which they live.
The rapporteur proposes a series of objectives which we agree with and which must be taken into account in future decisions.
Secondly, common action against the situation of functional illiteracy, with an open method of cooperation between the various countries.
This fight against illiteracy must be incorporated into other Union policies and must be taken into account whenever we talk about education and training.
We have just discussed another report which speaks about this and we are perfectly aware that illiteracy figures in all countries are always higher amongst women.
This participation is crucial.
In previous programmes to combat poverty, as you will recall, there were concrete projects which spoke of the crucial importance of participation by all the sectors involved.
However, there are increasingly pockets of marginalisation in the cities, there is an immigrant population establishing itself in our cities and that means that the problem of illiteracy, and particularly functional illiteracy, is a really serious problem today, because it is always linked to poverty, to marginalisation and to social exclusion.
Since the Lisbon Summit, becoming the most competitive information society in the world has been one of our objectives.
If the information society is fundamental to work in the future, these young people who can hardly find work under normal conditions, will not have any opportunity unless we integrate them into this information and knowledge society.
It is therefore urgent to carry out programmes and actions by means of the Green Paper which the rapporteur is requesting, so that these sections of the population, which are increasing with the immigration of recent years, are offered a solution to this fundamental problem, so that they can access other systems of personal welfare.
I once again congratulate the rapporteur on this wonderful initiative, which draws attention to a problem that is still facing us.
We know that Europe is one of the most prosperous continents in the world but, despite that, a substantial number of our citizens live in conditions of extreme poverty and social marginalisation.
One of the parameters for measuring these conditions, in addition to income, is, without a doubt, illiteracy, for illiteracy is a cause of exclusion and prevents access to human rights, as the rapporteur rightly said in her report.
Therefore, combating illiteracy and marginalisation must become one of the priorities of the Union and the Member States, with all the relevant policies applied in the context of a global, integrated strategy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, it is scarcely credible that between 10% and 20% of people in the European Union are unable to understand printed matter and documents and make use of them.
The Member States' sole duty is to make real the right to education which is now also enshrined in Article 14 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Mr President, Commissioner, this own-initiative report, which we should welcome, concerning the specific subject of illiteracy sheds light on two particular approaches recently implemented by the European Union in adopting the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights on the one hand and the action programme combating social exclusion on the other.
As Marie-Thérèse Hermange, our rapporteur, reminded us, the right of each individual to know how to read, write and count is the practical basis that enables these individuals to exercise their rights as citizens.
In practical terms, I believe it must be possible to develop these actions in two directions.
We need to make the connection between illiteracy and unemployment, on the one hand - for example there are the proposed actions targeting illiteracy in the workplace - in order to ensure the coherent implementation of the decisions made in Lisbon, and between illiteracy and social inclusion on the other.
I believe the case of migrant women must be considered in this respect.
In conclusion, I believe that this report must be seen as a tool to facilitate the drawing-up of a measure involving local, national and Community levels, each with their own specific responsibilities.
Nor is there any doubt that this is a European issue, which is why I also sincerely support what the rapporteur has said about open coordination being the best method of achieving progress in this area.
The idea of States retaining their own competences in this area is, after all, pretty obsolete.
The Commission's policy in this sector will be expressed in a series of initiatives and programmes which are currently in the pipeline as a result of cooperation between the Council, Parliament and the Commission.
My first point is that the Lisbon Council in 2000 called for the Commission to draft a report on the specific future objectives of education and training systems.
The acquisition of basic skills is one of the 13 basic objectives for the education and training systems of the European Union.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, it is unusual to speak twice in a row in the same day.
As we all know that there is no openness between European, national and local partners, this agenda raises the issue of responsibility and attribution of powers of all those playing a part in its implementation.
It is in its dual role of ensuring openness and acting as a social instrument that the Social Agenda is a key component of economic and social modernisation, as its implementation will, in the long term, be decisive for achieving the strategic objectives laid down by the Lisbon European Council.
That, Commissioner, is why Parliament and its Committee on Employment and Social Affairs deeply regretted not having been able to consider the Social Agenda prior to the Stockholm European Council.
We also call on the Commission to supply information on how it proposes to act on a number of requests we have made: to define an appropriate legal basis for the development of civil dialogue; to provide a tax and legislative framework for the development of the social economy; to integrate the social dimension into competition policy; to submit a directive on social security cover for new forms of employment; to reinforce the action programme and instruments against poverty and social exclusion and submit a proposal to amend Directive 92/85/EC on introducing measures to help improve the health and safety of female workers; and to launch an initiative aimed at better guaranteeing the social quality of work.
You will also understand, Commissioner, that we are calling on you to speed up a number of operations: in particular to submit a proposal for a review of the enterprise committee directive as soon as possible so that the legislative procedure can be concluded as intended, to submit to Parliament a memorandum on policy in the area of health and safety at work that could serve as a consultation document, to conduct in-depth examination and assessment of the impact of the Luxembourg process, and, lastly, to propose activities to mark the European year of the disabled.
We are also convinced that partnerships should be strengthened in all the actions taken in this area.
The European Parliament has supported the Commission proposal on a cohesive policy framework for social development right from the start, although it did point out that the updated European standard which was the whole purpose of the Social Agenda should serve the values of solidarity and justice underlying the European structure better and more efficiently, given that these values are currently under attack.
In order to promote these values, the European Parliament stresses in its resolution that we also need to promote the full participation of women in economic and social life.
The European Parliament also stresses in its resolution that the gender dimension needs to be included in all sectors covered by the Social Agenda and monitored in regular reports.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should obviously, first and foremost, like to congratulate Mrs Hermange and thank her for her excellent cooperation.
On the other hand, the new scoreboard has not yet been finally rubberstamped by the European Commission, despite the fact that, in Stockholm, we were assured that this scoreboard, together with the summary report for Barcelona, would be before us by no later than January.
It is, of course, the case that 2001 has produced some welcome results, but it is vital to keep this momentum going and, for this, we need a new and better scoreboard, which clearly indicates the responsibilities with the attendant expiry dates.
Without one, we will find it much more difficult to do what the President of Parliament urged us to do yesterday: involve EU citizens in the creation of a Europe fit for its future.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although Nice shed light on the need for a European social policy, there is still much to be done in order to guarantee a bold social policy which will improve the lives of our fellow citizens.
However, any headway is progress, and I also welcome the comments in the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs concerning the social policy agenda.
These two rights seem to me to be essential to the correct working of the social relationship between employees, employers and politicians.
These rights represent progress which could be classed as progress in civilisation and Europe should not be behind in this matter, as democracy is regularly at the heart of our concerns in this Assembly.
This issue must also be at the heart of our concerns.
Third, I believe it is extremely important that all Commission decisions on concentrations and mergers take account of the social consequences and regional planning.
The issue of the action to be taken and implementation is obviously crucial.
Mr President, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work.
We are looking for a greater role as a parliament in ensuring that we can conclude agreements with regard to social inclusion, so as to best respond to the needs and demands of those people we represent.
We must work towards a more progressive system in which workers are entitled to keep as much of their earned income as possible and there is better provision of services in the social sphere in areas such as housing, health and education through the national exchequer.
The Commission is taking a far more proactive and forward-looking approach in its proposals.
Finally, we must play a greater and clearer role as regards the place within society of those with disabilities.
These people represent 10 % of the population, yet they are excluded from so many walks of life.
Your agenda has enjoyed very strong support from Parliament, and especially from the group to which I belong, but we now expect definite proposals and initiatives, action plans and also - Mrs Smet - directives.
If you have problems at the Commission, Commissioner Diamantopoulou, then just take the excellent report that Parliament produced last autumn.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the degree to which the European Union complies with the Social Policy Agenda is a major indication of its interest in resolving the countless social problems that still exist.
Even in the field of social inclusion, and despite the miles of paper that have already been used up on the subject and despite national inclusion plans and countless declarations of intent, there are still serious problems which could grow worse as a result of the slowdown in economic activity and the insistence on privatisations in fundamental sectors and in public services that are essential to a genuine policy of social inclusion, in addition to the fact that financial resources are still very thin on the ground.
This is why it is so important for the Commission to speed up its work and, above all, to change its policies, giving the utmost priority to the social aspect in areas such as quality employment with rights, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, the guarantee of access to fundamental rights, specifically for the more vulnerable social groups such as children, the elderly, immigrants and the disabled and the establishment of equal opportunities for men and women in all areas.
It would also be appropriate to ascertain, in order to get an overall picture, whether the States have at least initiated an internal debate on their social rules, on cohesion within their national territories and on the integration of groups which are relatively or extremely marginalised because of age, disability, sex or profession.
To sum up, the point we are trying to make is that, although much of the issue is left to the principle of subsidiarity and the active responsibility of a number of parties to manage, the social protocol, although behind schedule, is an integral part of the Treaties, and social policy at last goes hand in hand with economic policy in the open method of coordination.
In October 2001, I again presented a table of actions in 2001 to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, and again there was a 100% correlation between commitments and results.
The debate is closed.
Regarding Amendments Nos 10 and 16 I wish to table an oral amendment to Amendments Nos 10 and 16, which are identical.
Joint motion for a resolution on the situation of the lorry drivers stranded in Luxembourg Regarding paragraph 9 Mr President, there is an omission in item 9 of the joint resolution.
The text would then be worded as follows: "Calls on the Member States, in close collaboration with the Commission services, to initiate a qualitative and quantitative revision" . (The House gave its assent to the tabling of the oral amendment) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Joint motion for a resolution on the situation in the Middle East Regarding Amendment No 2 Mr President, I request that the first clause - "calls on Israel to comply with" - be replaced with the clause "calls on the two sides to comply with international conventions" , and that, after the words "arrested and imprisoned" , the words "by Israel" be inserted. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Motion for a resolution (B5-0100/2002) on measures to combat terrorism Regarding Amendment No 8 I wanted to table an oral amendment both on behalf of my own Group of the Greens and European Free Alliance and on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
In other words, the amendment will not affect the entry into force but the interpretation of the definition of terrorism.
The text reads: "would like the implementation of these four measures and especially the common position on specific measures to combat terrorism to be subject to the interpretation of the definition, as laid down in the framework decision concerning the definition of terrorism that was laid down by the Council on 6 December 2001, particularly with regard to the guarantees described in the recitals and the relevant statements made by the Council" .
I hope that this is acceptable to everyone. (The House gave its assent to the tabling of the oral amendment) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Joint motion for a resolution on the financing of development aid (Parliament adopted the resolution) Joint motion for a resolution on the UNCHR in Geneva Regarding paragraph 5 Mr President, paragraph 5, where it says "to sign and ratify" should read "to ratify or accede to the Rome Statue" because at this stage it is no longer possible to sign the Statute.
Mr President, I would like to table a compromise oral amendment absorbing Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 9 tabled by Mr Belder.
Mr MacCormick has proposed to withdraw Amendments Nos 12 and 18.
I have also been informed that Amendment No 17 is on the same subject.
Amendment No 3, which dealt with the legal concept of habeas corpus, had been circulated to us in the Irish delegation of the PPE-DE Group.
We knew that the amendment would be defeated but nonetheless I and a number of my colleagues decided to vote for it because of our firm belief in the principle of habeas corpus and that it is a good one.
Looking at the record of yesterday's proceedings, Amendment No 3, which we received yesterday morning, became Amendment No 4 at the vote.
Our decision to vote for the principle of habeas corpus was negated by this change in the numbering of the amendment.
I wish it to be recorded here that our vote was intended to support the principle of habeas corpus.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE Resolution on the area of freedom, security and justice (B5-0099/2002) Mr President, I offer this explanation of vote on behalf of the PPE-DE Group.
The concern of the PPE-DE Group was that, as a result of the ambiguity of its wording, Amendment No 8 to the resolution on the European judicial area could be wrongly interpreted.
Unfortunately, the rapporteur confines the proposal to company cars, extends transitional periods and, in part, increases the maximum speed of category N2 motorised vehicles to 110 km.
However, I consider that, in the interim report that the Commission is due to present to us in 2006, not only should the continued presence of the reasons justifying the derogation be assessed, but Community rules concerning State aid should also be taken into consideration and the continued derogation should be conditional on the effective restructuring of the sector.
With regard to the reduction of the crippling excise duties on liqueurs and eaux-de-vie produced and consumed in Madeira and the Azores, I am also in favour of granting this derogation until 2008, with an interim report to be produced in 2005.
The Council Decision of 1995, which is due to expire at the end of this year, authorises France to impose a reduced rate of excise duty within French metropolitan territory for "traditional" rum produced in the French overseas departments.
The current review of the COM in the sugar sector and the dismantling of customs barriers in 2003 have led France to propose that these tax arrangements be maintained beyond 2002 on the grounds that the measures adopted at national and Community level would not in themselves be enough to allow FOD products to compete with products from other regions.
Rum from the overseas departments is therefore obliged to participate in the FOD rural development policy, which increases restrictions and production costs and places it in a disadvantageous position on the market in relation to products from third countries.
The dispensational tax system therefore merely aims to compensate for the obligation incumbent on FOD producers to participate in the survival of the cane-sugar-rum sector. (Intervention cut short pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) Glante report (A5-0005/2002) Let us talk about the Galileo project, Mr President.
Apart from the fact that it is much more accurate than the American Global Positioning System (GPS), which has been up and running for several years now, the main point about GALILEO is that, unlike the GPS, it is to come under political, rather than military control.
The European Commission communication under examination does not relate to the GALILEO system per se but to the creation of a joint public/private undertaking to finance its development.
It is worth noting that the European Parliament approved a similar amendment in my report on the European Union's space policy on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy at the last part-session.
The MPF delegation firmly supports the Galileo project for the implementation of a European satellite radionavigation programme, a system that will work parallel to yet independently of the American GPS system whilst maintaining 'interoperability' , in other words, it will not work against this system and will permit the possibility for the two systems to work together.
The Galileo project seems exemplary for three reasons.
From a technical point of view, it will have numerous positive effects for all economic activities and will increase Europe' s general productivity at a time when this is very much needed.
From an institutional point of view, it is clear that a project on which there is Europe-wide cooperation would be justified with regard to subsidiarity, and that the European Space Agency (ESA) could provide the appropriate instrument for this.
Finally, from a political and strategic point of view, the Galileo project will grant Europe independence from the United States while the acceptance of the GPS monopoly, on the other hand, would imply a tangible dependence that would increase over time.
In spite of these arguments, the final decision on the development of the Galileo project has been deferred from Council to Council, and the latest, held at Laeken, was no exception.
On this point, the European Parliament is frankly making a mistake in demanding an ever greater communitisation of the project, for example in estimating, in its resolution of 17 January, that "The ESA with its basis of intergovernmental cooperation should in the longer term be brought within the EU" .
In truth, the opposite is the case: we need to apply the principle of variable geometry to Galileo, as for Airbus and Ariane, and create a structure that groups together only those States that are truly involved in the project.
We often hear mention of this project without really being aware of its future applications.
Galileo is a satellite radionavigation system that allows the user of a receiver to capture the signals transmitted by a number of satellites in order to determine its position in time and in space.
The implementation of Galileo should take place in four phases.
During this period, we will have to establish the technical and financial conditions necessary for the rapid deployment of infrastructure in 2006-2007 in order to be able to exploit this system commercially in 2008.
Thus, according to the model envisaged by the European Commission, private companies would be able to participate fully in the establishment of the Joint Undertaking.
The EIB may also become a member of the Joint Undertaking in the future. (Intervention cut short pursuant to Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure) . (DE) I consider the establishment of a European satellite navigation programme to be generally sensible and deserving of support.
Industry will get on board only when Galileo has demonstrated its earning potential and is set to make profits.
The Galileo system is crucial if we are to ensure the independence of the Member States of the European Union in the strategic domain of satellite position-finding, since it will mean that they no longer have to depend on the GPS, that the United States controls in a discretionary fashion.
Joint motion for a resolution on the Middle East (B5-0101/2002) Mr President, I am delivering this explanation of vote on my own behalf.
I voted for Amendment No 1 on the Israeli reservists refusing to serve in the occupied territories, against the instruction of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
The European Parliament resolution is just another manifestation of this European powerlessness.
Motion for a resolution on terrorism (B5-0100/2002) . (FR) The vote on our motion for a resolution against terrorism means we can state firmly once again that terrorism is evil by definition, is totally unjustified and should be eradicated at all costs.
We remember all the terrorist movements and their actions over the last few years, whether it be the Baader-Meinhof gang in Germany, the Red Brigades in Italy, movements in Corsica, in Ireland or in the Basque Country, striking every day, not forgetting the massacres at the Munich Olympics, the suicide bombers in Tel Aviv and the networks of the fundamentalist multimillionaire Osama Bin Laden.
All these actions have a common goal: to destroy democratic systems by means of terror.
This is why I supported the European Parliament' s forceful and legitimate request to be closely involved in the actions of the Council in this area.
Joint motion for a resolution on development aid (B5-0034/2002) . (FR) We are living in a world of unprecedented global wealth.
Inequalities on a global scale have reached intolerable, appalling proportions.
In 1960, the 20% of the world' s population living in the richest countries had an income 30 times higher than that of the 20% poorest.
More than 800 million are starving.
In September 2001, in the 'Millennium Declaration' , the international community committed itself to halving poverty by 2015.
Next March, in Monterrey, then in Johannesburg in September at the World Summit on sustainable development, the European Union must take the initiative and make concrete proposals and set a precise timetable to honour these commitments.
The first is to increase public aid in considerable proportions until it reaches - at last - the objective of 0.7% of the wealth of the northern countries set more than 30 years ago.
A major step was taken in this direction by the last 'Development' Council, which put this objective back on the agenda and called upon the Commission to set deadlines together with the Member States.
We need to think about the conditions of access of developing countries to international financing, in accordance with the guidelines mentioned by the French Prime Minister. (Intervention cut short pursuant to Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure) Napolitano report (A5-0023/2002) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, I voted for the Napolitano report.
I hope that, in future, the appointment of European Parliament representatives to these important bodies will be more democratic.
I am convinced that his ideas will help us enhance what is already a good relationship between ourselves and our national counterparts.
Not because I believe there is any incompatibility - which there is not: either legal, material, ethical or any other - but, quite the opposite: the status of MEP - which I share with two other Members who have also been appointed by two other Heads of State and Government, in Greece and Luxembourg - gives added value to the Convention, which is a joint task and not one of opposition.
We voted in favour of paragraph 7 of the report because we agree in principle with the rapporteur' s view that it would be an unfortunate development if the governments were to go overboard in developing new instruments for exercising power that exclude the parliaments' influence.
At the same time, we would emphasise that - in spite of its being insufficiently rooted in parliamentary procedure - the open coordination method has been, and remains, a successful and welcome method of achieving increased integration, cooperation and results in areas not considered suitable for more supranational forms of decision-making.
We voted in favour of paragraph 8 of the report because we agree with the rapporteur that it cannot be regarded as legitimate - in terms either of the practicalities or of providing representation - for MEPs to have a double mandate, that is to say with seats in both the European Parliament and a national/regional parliament.
The European common good is not decreed from above, from a European democracy that is too weak to be anything other than a kind of technocratic smokescreen, but lies instead in the peaceful dialogue between the interests and aspirations of various national democracies.
This new 'constituent power' would be shared between the national parliaments and the European Parliament, as well as, as is stated in paragraph 21 of the resolution, by the Commission and the governments of Member States, which is truly unprecedented from the democratic point of view.
Citizens in the European Union generally see elections to their national parliaments (and, in some countries, elections to the national presidency) as the fundamental democratic choice between, for example a left- or right-wing government.
The legitimacy of democracy is today based on the elections to the national parliaments and, as a consequence, the institutions of the European Union must be adjusted to this fact.
Hence the timeliness of the excellent Napolitano report and my vote in favour of it.
Since, while it is clearly necessary to guarantee the democratic control of Community policies and decision making, it is also clear that this control must be carried out while respecting each of the areas of parliamentary activity.
Amongst these, I would highlight item 21, on the emergence - by means of the Convention - of a constituent power, albeit exercised jointly by the European Parliament and the national parliaments, the Commission and the governments of the Member States, and the outright rejection of a future Senate (item 17), which could, in my opinion, destroy the principle of parity between the Member States of the Union.
Positive effects have not yet been forthcoming, to the extent we had hoped, from the current provisions of the law and from the reform of the structural funds within the Agenda 2000 framework.
There is no other way to achieve the objective of long-term reduction of existing differences in levels of development and the consequent enhancement of economic and social cohesion.
From the European angle, this is about European money that can only be made available under strict conditions for use in regions and cities and that must be demanded back if deadlines are exceeded or the planned spending plan deviated from.
The effective allocation of the Funds requires the cooperation of all levels of European government.
National governments have a role to play in freeing up the execution process and I favour the call by MEPs for a more direct channelling of Funds to the regions.
To vote for this report is, as far as I am concerned, first and foremost to underline the fact that the principle of cohesion and thus of solidarity and the integration of the peoples and territories of the Union is enshrined in the Treaties and, this being the case, it is essential that it be defended.
The report' s authors, who, quite rightly, think it essential to ensure an extremely high degree of consistency between action taken at a European level under the heading of cohesion policy, and Member States' domestic policies that support development, therefore call on the Member States, in accordance with the principles of additionality and subsidiarity, to support this drive for regional economic convergence instigated at European level, by means, for example, of an appropriate investment policy.
These funds could be provided by a unified tax on capital returns.
The Musotto report recognises this contradiction in its own way, for example by underlining "the need to adapt competition policy and fiscal policy" .
There will continue to be areas of need in the UK post-2006 and we would like the Commission to assess the role that both a safety net mechanism and transitional funding could play in assisting poorer regions of the UK post-2006.
We also agree with the explicit reference to the delays in fighting asymmetries in development and in standards of living and even to the steps backward being seen in regions of some countries.
We must also agree with the need the report expresses to provide continuity and to strengthen future regional policy and, therefore, to oppose the possible withdrawal of some regions from Objective 1, for purely statistical reasons.
Today, we can say that the way we adapt our Community cohesion policy with a view to enlargement will determine the quality of the Union' s future development.
Furthermore, we need to adapt competition policy, particularly national regional aid, and tax policy in order to strengthen regional and cohesion policy, with the understanding that the Structural Funds are not sufficient to counterbalance the handicaps and the delays in development accumulated over several decades.
We also need to prepare for the revision of the common agricultural policy and rural development, in order to better coordinate the urban and rural dimensions of regional development.
Finally, it would appear urgent to create a European monitoring centre for territorial cohesion. (Intervention cut short pursuant to Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure) Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou report (A5-0022/2002) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, I voted for Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou' s report, which concerns women in Mediterranean countries, too.
In this regard, I would like to call upon all the Members to undertake to ensure that the European Union unilaterally extends the scope of Regulation 1408 on pro rata payment for the period of time a person has worked in the States of the European Union to all the citizens of southern Mediterranean countries, who have worked for many years in Europe and have the right to receive a proportionate pension for the work they have done in Europe, above and beyond the provisions of the relevant conventions.
Mr President, this report creates a depressing picture of the situation of women in some Mediterranean countries.
It is important that Parliament draws attention to that issue, but that is not sufficient.
Equal opportunities policy is the same throughout the European Union.
We do not for one moment think, for example, that due to the particular circumstances or the mentality of men in Mediterranean Member States, implementing equal opportunities policy, a policy which is now firmly grounded in the Treaty of Amsterdam, would be any more difficult there.
But it is clear that, in Mediterranean countries that are not, or not yet, members of the European Union, the situation of women is more worrying in many regards, and that we need, and this is perfectly legitimate, to devote more attention to trying to remedy incidences of unacceptable discrimination.
I am therefore in favour of this report, with two reservations.
If we create a Euro-Mediterranean Development Bank, why not create one for the Baltic Sea, the North Sea, or anywhere else for that matter? (Intervention cut short pursuant to Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure) Hermange report (A5-0009/2002) I voted for this report, which is an excellent initiative for creating a coherent, clear and effective policy at Community level on the problem of illiteracy.
This is a problem that has never received the attention it deserves, probably because until very recently it was taken for granted that the more highly developed countries did not have problems of illiteracy due to their systems of compulsory education.
It should be noted that the last Community actions specifically concerning this problem were approved in 1987.
Nevertheless, the OECD report on reading and writing, published in June 2000, clearly shows this not to be the case, in other words, that illiteracy is a reality in our countries, entailing high economic and social costs.
The figures available to us on the scale of this phenomenon at Community level cannot be underestimated, because they affect a considerable percentage of the population of the Union European between 15 and 65 years of age.
It comes as no surprise, but always with considerable unhappiness, that my country, Portugal, is the worst affected.
However, as the report does propose a certain number of positive measures such as equal access to fundamental rights for all, non-discrimination and equal opportunities, as well as specific aid to the EU regions most affected by this by this form of social exclusion, I voted for this report.
Hermange report (A5-0004/2002) The EPLP has voted for the Hermange report on the scoreboard implementing the Social Agenda because there are many positive aspects to this report on the European Social Agenda.
In paragraph 14 the EPLP could not support the call for a European right to strike and abstained.
The Group of the European People's Party/European Democrats calls on both parties in the conflict to bring all diplomatic means to bear on this crisis situation.
At the same time, however, we too need to assume our responsibility, as the European Union, to help find a peaceful solution to all the differences in the area, to respect for international law and human rights and to anything and everything relating to the Rule of Law and human rights.
However, this endeavour should not lead us to overlook the fact that Pakistan does indeed have a serious human rights problem, serious problems with democratic issues and serious problems with religious minorities.
Both countries are responsible for the stability of the area.
It gives me the opportunity to address the wider problem: the threat of war again between India and Pakistan.
I welcome President Musharraf's announcement that he is clamping down on terrorism, but it is also important to look at the dispute over Jammu and Kashmir, which has been going on for over 50 years.
The responsibility was soon traced to militant Islamic terrorist groups based in Pakistan, with full support and training from the Pakistani government, and also responsible for the earlier attacks in Srinagar against the Kashmiri State Assembly.
This is in clear violation of Security Council Resolution 1373 forbidding states from sponsoring terrorism against other states.
Nevertheless, I welcome President Musharraf's change of heart in backing the United States in their war on terrorism which toppled the Taliban regime and destroyed the al-Qa'ida network in Afghanistan, even though this regime was largely a creation of Pakistan's interservice intelligence agency; in particular, his speech of 13 January promising reforms of the madrassas, or religious schools, which fomented so much hatred of the west and bred an atmosphere conducive to the massacre of Christians peacefully at worship last year.
This is a promising start, but Pakistan has yet to accede to the request to extradite the 20 ringleaders of the plot.
I call, therefore, on Pakistan to ratify the SAARC and all UN conventions on terrorism and I congratulate India on its restraint in the face of provocation and on its joint declaration with the EU in November last year against terrorism.
America, alas, paid the price on 11 September.
Madam President, I should like to express the Socialist Group's deep concern about the growing phenomenon of fundamentalist terrorism, not only in India but all around the world.
We hope that India and Pakistan, with the support of the European Parliament, can take that road rather than the much more dangerous road for themselves and the rest of the world.
We must bear in mind the title of and the reason for this resolution, namely the terrorist attacks in India.
Dr Tannock outlined to us the disastrous effects that this attack could have had on the whole of the ruling class in India.
We are forgetting that India is a democracy and has been one for over 50 years.
What happened on 13 December of last year in the Indian Parliament was unprecedented.
The Council and the Commission have also stressed repeatedly that Pakistan must continue and expand its anti-terrorist policy.
India is asking for Pakistan to take specific action to demonstrate that it is determined to stamp out all forms of terrorism, a perfectly legitimate request.
First it will assure India that it has its full support in combating terrorism, as agreed in the declaration against terrorism at the second summit, and secondly, it will encourage both sides to return to the negotiating table as quickly as possible and to start withdrawing their troops.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it never rains but it pours, but this especially applies to the distressed population in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
We also hope that this applies not only to the city of Goma, but also to the area surrounding it, including Bukavu, where there are also refugees, and Rwanda and Burundi too, where refugees are also scattered.
We have to help the various parties to see reason as soon as possible in order to facilitate reconstruction in the Congo, so that administrative, and also democratic, structures may be restored and so that this great country's descent into chaos may be halted.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I of course agree wholeheartedly with my two fellow Members.
As you know, the eruption of the Nyiragongo volcano in Goma, in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo, is believed to be the most serious in central Africa for 25 years.
We already know what this type of epidemic can lead to, particularly after the so-called 'tropical' genocide in which 50 000 people were killed in the same region of Goma.
First of all, in 1977, the same volcano began to erupt.
The Commission and the Member States must play a more active part in the international ten-year action that I mentioned.
I thank the European Union for having taken swift action, but I would like to stress that we must step up our work and, through this, we can establish a fair and lasting peace.
Madam President, the eruption of the Nyiragongo volcano has demonstrated two realities which present a challenge to the whole international community in general and, specifically, for the European Union as well as the countries of the region.
The first reality is the extreme poverty in which thousands of people live, not only in this eastern region, but in the whole of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, a poverty which is aggravated all the more by the war which has been devastating that country since 1996.
In this respect, the resolution we have approved this week, which establishes links between emergency aid, rehabilitation and the development policy, has been very timely.
These two realities should lead us to come up with a European Union strategy and action which involves us in this region.
It is therefore important that this inter-Congo dialogue which is restarting in South Africa in Sun City puts an end to this conflict.
Joint assessments conducted by ECHO and the agencies on the ground resulted in the announcement of an emergency decision on Sunday, 20 January.
The Commission would stress the need for an early and peaceful solution to the conflict through the implementation of the Lusaka Agreements and the Inter-Congolese Dialogue.
The debate is closed.
Guantanamo Bay Madam President, Commissioner, what has been going on in Guantanamo Bay?
That section of the European intelligentsia whose approach is still marked by naïve optimism and which still believes that, after 11 September, we can respond to violence without using violence and to war without using weapons, has spoken out about the conditions in which al-Qa' ida fighters, captured in Afghanistan, were transported to Guantanamo Bay.
That is why our group will not be associated with the joint resolution tabled by other groups, but we will table our own resolution, which, in essence, calls for a revision of international law so that we can adapt to the conditions of the new era that began in New York and Washington on 11 September 2001.
Madam President, military manoeuvres and Guantanamo analyses aside, mankind is on trial now, as are our willingness and ability to sustain a world in which the rules of law agreed a priori will prevail, because only then will we retain the moral and political right to judge everyone else who is indifferent to or tramples international rules of law underfoot, be they terrorists, the Taliban, anyone at all.
Because otherwise we shall end up, Madam President, with a world in which what we see is tragedy rather than cinema.
We are defending ourselves, our perceptions and our culture.
Madam President, this resolution seeks to emphasise the essential point that the fight against terrorism, which will be long and hard, must be conducted as far as is possible in compliance with international law and the Rule of Law.
It would be good if newer and more modern rules could be established that could be applied to prisoners and to acts of terrorism in situations in which, as Mr Napolitano said, there has been no declaration of war.
Madam President, Parliament must deplore in no uncertain terms President Bush's military order permitting the secret trial of prisoners in Guantanamo Bay by a military commission, which may adopt its own rules of evidence, judge and pass sentence.
Madam President, I fully support the USA in its handling of the detainees in Guantanamo Bay.
It is fully in the interests of Europe's citizens that the American security forces be allowed to interrogate these suspects.
The US needs to interrogate these individuals as it is an essential part of the worldwide struggle against terrorism.
My concern is twofold: firstly, as regards what will America do with those it does not file charges against who, if returned to their own countries of origin, may face torture and death for reasons of unrelated Islamic militancy; and secondly, with regard to paragraph 5 of the resolution, which suggests a role for the international criminal court, which has yet to get off the ground?
Nevertheless, this whole area of jurisprudence ... (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, regardless of their situation, today millions of people have seen in the media the degrading conditions in which the prisoners have been transported and have seen on television the humiliating conditions they have been subjected to inside and outside the sadly famous cages.
A superpower which is not just a military, but also a civil, power should, in my opinion, set a proper example of respect for human rights, even if two twin towers had been destroyed for each of the 50 states of the Union.
Nevertheless, I hope that 11 September has not numbed American public opinion so much that it has become blinded and cannot react in a decent a dignified fashion within the United States itself.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that those who consider themselves the guardians of western culture, those who give the rest of the world lessons in democracy have proven to be the guardians of barbarianism.
And let there be an end to the discussion as to whether or not the detainees in Guantanamo are prisoners of war.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of Gerardo Galeote, signatory, together with General Morillon, of the PPE resolution on this issue.
I have arrived late for this debate, but I have had time to listen to some speeches and I believe we should return to the basic issues.
We in the European Union must say that, in the case of any doubt, the principles of the Geneva Convention must be applied, but that the Geneva Convention itself lays down a legal basis to resolve all those issues which may endanger the security of the organisation or the prisoners themselves, while a judicial tribunal establishes whether they have the right to protection under the Geneva Convention or not.
This has probably been an error in terms of European public opinion - if not in terms of American public opinion -, a public relations error, because the truth is that it has been the United States itself that has published these photos which so offend our sensibilities.
We must clearly continue, and we will continue, to be vigilant, but always on the basis of the idea that we are fighting this war together.
The lady who spoke before me said that Europe and the USA have the same vision.
We have all seen the photographs taken of prisoners detained at the United States military base in Guantanamo and have read reports about their treatment.
The European Union has a long-standing ongoing dialogue with the United States on human rights issues and in the field of justice and home affairs.
I agree with those honourable Members who believe that this issue strengthens the EU's argument in favour of the establishment of an International Criminal Court.
The European Union will continue to monitor the situation in Guantanamo.
The case of Grigori Pasko and the closure of TV6 in Russia.
Mr Pasko is a person who has acted in the interests of the people of the European Union, Russia, and its Asian neighbours in warning of dangers menacing the Russian people and all of us.
From now on, these citizens will have to rely on the two public channels, ORT and RTR, to provide them with information.
Although Mr Pasko was sentenced in 1999, the Kaluga regional court has only recently acknowledged that there was no legal basis for his imprisonment.
Not a day or week goes by, however, when there is not an article on Chechnya in our newspapers.
Against the background of our joint efforts with Russia to establish closer political and economic relations, the European Union has repeatedly made clear that it expects Russia to act in accordance with the values that it committed itself to respecting when it entered the Council of Europe and the OSCE.
At any rate, we will continue to use all CFSP instruments to support the causes of independent media and editorial freedom in Russia, including by raising all relevant cases in the framework of our bilateral political dialogue with Russia.
Mr President, the results of the first round of the presidential elections, which were held on 16 December 2001 in Madagascar, have been the subject of great controversy and conflict between the two leading candidates, namely the outgoing president, Didier Ratsiraka, and his rival Marc Ravalomanana.
However, the official results mean that the two men must face one another in a second round and the international community is hoping and praying that it will be organised.
The Commission must do everything in its power to resolve this conflict, which is pulling the country apart, but also to help in establishing a genuine Rule of Law.
The conflict must be resolved with respect for human, political and civil rights, but also for political pluralism.
Respect for fundamental principles is essential in consolidating the democratic process.
Mr President, after the dark period of colonialism and dictatorships in the developing countries, I feel that it is positive that we are talking today about elections in these countries, even though their social and civil structure is weak, as is the concept of democracy.
Moreover, through the instruments available to us, the Cotonou Treaty and the ACP/EU Joint Parliamentary Assemblies, we must propose systems and methods of democratic control, ensuring they are appropriate to the current level of civil society in those countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 January 2002, Madagascar' s High Constitutional Court published the result of the elections.
And this will only happen if the second round takes place in a transparent fashion; in other words, if the international organisation and if the European Union ensure the elections are conducted in the proper manner.
I therefore appeal to the Commission and the Council to systematically promote and support the newly-elected local assemblies, by which I mean not only the representatives of the ruling party but also those of the opposition parties, which must not be allowed to degenerate into fig leaves, but which are needed so that this first tentative step towards democracy may result in real democracy and not just a propaganda show.
These need to be the priorities of our future policy on Cambodia.
The European Commission coordinated a total of 120 observers in Cambodia on the day of the election.
As the electoral process has not yet been completed, the results have not yet been announced and accusations and appeals have not yet been filed, it is too soon to draw any final conclusions as to how the elections passed.
The European Commission representation, together with European Union diplomatic missions in Cambodia, will continue to monitor progress in the post-election period.
Furthermore, the expulsion in October 2001 of the Italian ambassador, who represented the European Union on the ground, severely undermined relations with Eritrea.
Yet, in order to enable relations between Eritrea and the European Union to return to normal, it is essential that human rights and fundamental freedoms be respected.
For this to happen, the Eritrean Government must not only release all political prisoners and journalists, but it must also lift the ban on all independent journalists.
It then suffered 32 years of war during which its economy and its environment were ruined and its people dispersed.
We then came to 1993 and its referendum for independence.
Democracy has been cancelled in Eritrea.
Mr President, Commissioner, as the previous speakers have already said, the situation in Eritrea is becoming increasingly serious as far democracy is concerned.
The international community cannot just stand by and watch.
The UN Security Council and the Algiers Commission have committed themselves to doing this, but we need a European delegation, a troika, to go to Eritrea and we need to reassess relations with this country on the basis of the Cotonou agreements.
The situation in Eritrea is extremely critical, and we now have a better understanding of what prompted this people to go to war against Ethiopia.
Moreover, Eritrea brought down a regional resolution at the ACP Assembly of November 2001 by refusing to discuss the issue of relations between the two States.
Without question, the whole endeavour is based on international law, human rights and human rights conventions and our efforts will be directed towards making sure that political dialogue with Eritrea continues and is reinforced within the context of article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement.
The debate is closed.
What has happened shows that, despite all the conflicts of political opinion, the most important thing is still life itself.
As far as the specific question of the earthquake in Turkey is concerned, our representation in Ankara has assured us that the Turkish authorities responsible for dealing with emergencies have not asked for help and that no help with civil protection or humanitarian aid are required at present.
The Commission will monitor the situation in Turkey closely and will work with other donors so as to encourage a coordinated international effort so that priorities for action can be clearly defined from an orderly statement of the needs and problems of the area.
The debate is closed.
In closing, I should like to add that the European trades unions rightly want to highlight all these issues relating to modern forms of work as immediate priorities in a widespread campaign which they are planning to start on 14 February to follow on from today's debate.
Directive 93/104/EC is a continuation of Directive 89/391/EC, on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of workers at work, with the idea that the creation of the internal market must lead to an improvement in working and living conditions, by means of approximating legislations.
It has been demonstrated that not only the temporary delay in compliance with the transposition period and, consequently, the non-application of the Directive within the time limit, but also that the exclusions and exceptions have been due to criteria which are not always clear.
Therefore, transposition, by means of collective agreement, has not always been accompanied by the desired success for this instrument of social dialogue.
All of this must done in accordance with Article 31 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, "Fair and just working conditions" .
Mr Koukiadis' report directly concerns only the first of what are now three directives on working time.
It is desirable that individual sectors are covered by rules that are genuinely appropriate to their own particular situations.
However, many implementation problems might be avoided and quicker adaptation made to technological and other change if such rules could come out of agreements between the social partners.
Before I speak on a number of matters to do with the working time directive, I must say that I am very pleased that a couple of Member States have already implemented a huge number of different legislative, administrative and collective agreements in this regard.
We all know - and the rapporteur did well to criticise it - that some Member States resort to the tactic of claiming that their existing legislation covers the provisions of the directive.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the working time arrangements which we are examining here are part of the neo-liberal policy to reverse the industrial relations which the working classes have fought hard to achieve.
The result of the European Union's policy is an increase in under-employment which, in some countries, already stands at over 30%.
I am delighted to note that in 9 of the 15 Member States, Sunday has been officially designated a day of rest.
The possibility of also using collective contracts or agreements between the social partners to transpose the directive should be seen in a fundamentally positive light.
The Koukiadis report will be a great help in the work in hand.
The Commission report on the implementation of the working time directive contains a general review of how the Member States implement the directive.
The directive allows a number of exceptions based on legislation or collective agreements, thereby giving the national authorities the flexibility I have already mentioned.
The European Parliament report also calls on the Commission to clarify where exceptions are justified on the basis of industrial agreements.
The same directive stipulates that the Council must review this provision at the Commission's proposal, accompanied by an evaluation report.
The Commission will use these national reports to draft a summary report on the implementation of the directive in the Member States, which will give us a clearer picture.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Stimulating Internet access The next item is the oral question (B5-0003/02), on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to the Commission on stimulating Internet access.
Part of the problem with this topic is the whole issue of jargon, and our question perhaps falls into that trap by talking about flat-rate Internet access.
It is making that huge library of information and services available in such a way that people can have continuous access to it at a price they can afford.
As you state in your question, Internet access charges are an important factor.
There is the matter of flat-rate charges for access - as you quite rightly said, there is a problem of terminology and how to translate terms into all the languages and I have to say here that there were words which I recognised in English but not in Greek - so, flat-rate charges for access based on flat-rate connections by Internet service providers and the new telecommunications companies which have taken over the networks of the former monopolies.
The national regulations of four Member States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Spain and France require the former monopolies to provide all market factors with flat-rate Internet access.
So the Commission is clearly operating at two levels.
As far as disseminating and consolidating broadband technology is concerned, the Commission acknowledges in its report to the European Council in Barcelona that this technology is not at present being provided and used by the Member States as quickly as we would expect.
This being so, the Commission has proposed to the European Council that it set a target date of 2005 for the provision of broadband technology throughout the European Union.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Mr President, since 7 November the SNCF has suspended all cross-Channel rail freight services because of fears for the safety of its staff at Calais following threats from those seeking to enter the UK illegally.
However, we are pleased today that both French MEPs and British Labour MEPs have pushed for a debate, and indeed that the ELDR Group has joined us in calling this debate this afternoon.
Articles 28 to 30 of the Treaty and Regulation 2679/98 guarantee the free movement of goods.
That means free movement through the Channel Tunnel.
Mr President, the Commission is worried about the fall in rail freight due to security problems at the SNCF station.
This situation is having an adverse impart on the distribution of freight transport services between the modes of transport on this important route.
This is damaging rail transport and runs counter to the Commission's collective view of the role of rail transport, as set out in the White Paper presented in September 2001.
The Commission has been fully apprised of the situation since it emerged in November.
In application of Regulation No 2679/98 on the free movement of goods, the Commission services asked the French authorities to take all the necessary measures to restore the smooth flow of traffic back in November.
Contacts with the French authorities will be maintained, Commissioner Bolkestein has suggested meeting his French and British counterparts and the ministers responsible for the internal market in order to discuss the matter on the fringe of the next Market Council on 1 March.
The policy of the Union and the Member States on asylum and external border controls is also in jeopardy.
This Tunnel is an asset and enterprise which is jointly owned and benefits both France and Britain, as well as the wider Community of Member States.
In this particular issue there are problems of slender resources - we understand that - whether of the police or of security personnel at the areas where they are involved.
Mr President, first of all I would be grateful if Commissioner Diamantopoulou would convey to Commissioner de Palacio my personal thanks for the work that I know the Commissioner has already undertaken in this regard.
I refer to exports and the logistical problems that are being created, as well as the problems for the rail freight companies generally.
It would be a crisis for Scotland, and therefore a crisis for transport across the Union, if that happened.
That affects not just people in Scotland; it even more affects people down the motorway routes through England, if far too much heavy freight traffic goes down there.
I am grateful to colleagues who have raised this question.
Mr President, the free movement of people, goods and services - one of the cornerstones of the internal market - is in various ways at stake in this matter.
The free movement of people, but also of goods, should not lead to the unverifiable movement of asylum seekers as a result of open borders.
The sad images from Frethun require both the Commission and the Council to do everything in their power, not only to remove this impediment, but also to tackle the cause.
However, I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this matter poses much wider and much more serious societal problems than just unfair competition between private operators.
But does the Commission think that the overall number of asylum seekers would go down?
Mr President, I join my Scottish colleagues in asking the Commissioner to help us to resolve this situation as urgently as possible.
Because we seem incapable of organising our immigration systems on a European basis and of providing adequate security to ensure that any such arrangement works.
I call upon the French authorities, from their old allies of the Auld Alliance, their Scottish cousins, to enforce real security at their end of the Tunnel so that the rail freight service to and from Scotland can be resumed.
I call upon the Commissioner and the Commission to knock all their heads together urgently in order to reach a solution to this absurd state of affairs.
Mr President, I apologise for my late arrival and I would like to thank you for rescheduling my speech to a later time.
The reason why we tabled this question is because the public sees the problem at the Eurotunnel site - since it involves two large European countries and also since it concerns our security and asylum policy - as requiring intervention by the European Union.
This situation also implies that we have envisaged solutions that can be applied to other borders and to other locations that are under pressure from migration.
What is happening, despite considerable investment by the rail operators and the SNCF in particular, contradicts our policy of moving towards using rail rather than road.
This is because what is happening there, and what France and England are being remonstrated for, is a problem which may concern all European Union countries in the future.
The first and most important solution, the fundamental solution is, of course, to have a much more generous and more balanced development policy.
Mr President, clearly we are having trouble applying one of the basic principles of a free Europe, the principle of the free movement of goods.
The current legislation of the European Union allows the Commission to institute infringement proceedings against a Member State found to be obstructing the free movement of goods.
This means, in this particular case, that asylum seekers will be unable to acquire refugee status in Britain after an extended period in France.
As far as a long-term solution to the problem is concerned because, as numerous Members have said today, the problem today may be on the border between France and Great Britain, but tomorrow it could well surface somewhere else in Europe, we need a fast decision on a common asylum policy at European level.
Thank you, Commissioner.
