Europe's cultural potential must be used strategically.
In 2009, the year of creativity and innovation, the possibilities of integrating ideas and initiatives from the public and civil service sector at the local and regional level should be exploited in a meaningful way.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, allow me first of all to thank you for the opportunity, on behalf of Commissioner Figeľ, to address the place of culture in our policies and its particular contribution to the development of European regions and cities.
In 2007, the Commission launched the European Agenda for Culture, which is now in its first stages of implementation.
Feeding into the ongoing reflection, the Commission will soon launch an independent study on the contribution of culture to local and regional economic development as part of the European regional policy.
Finally, I also wish to mention the European Cultural Forum, which will be organised for the first time by the Commission, in the context of the European Agenda for Culture in Brussels, on 29 and 30 September, and will bring together representatives of the cultural sector and national authorities, including local and regional authorities.
We therefore consider that culture contributes directly towards the development of the cultural education of Europeans and indirectly towards economic prosperity, especially in the regions which are most in need of focus and development.
At the precarious times we are facing now - which we have heard already in this Parliament - it is important that we discuss these matters as fully as we can.
That is not acceptable, particularly when culture can be so very important in our national and regional development.
I hope that one of the things to come out of this debate today - that we take back to our Member States, and the Commission and the Council take back - is that we are very concerned about how this regional development happens, how we deal with this and the role that culture can play in that.
I think one of the great strengths of the EU, and of the European Parliament, is that we all come together - now with 27 Member States - and are actually very different, in many ways: different backgrounds and cultures, and obviously different languages.
We all want to preserve our identities and how we feel about ourselves, and we need to do that.
In this context, I think we also need to take on board that we are getting people coming into our continent.
That is an issue which has not been mentioned in this debate, which I think is an important one and one that we, I hope, can integrate, particularly when we talk about issues such as multilingualism, which we have had good debates on.
It is an extremely important issue, and I think one we should perhaps give more prominence to than we have done, but in the context of a Europe which is changing.
For all of these reasons, I welcome the support that we are giving to culture and to cultural industries, support to small and medium-enterprises, which I think - in the current economic climate - are possibly going to be the backbone of what we will be looking at.
So I hope we will all recognise just how important the role of culture is in our continent and our society and that those of us who have actually turned up for this debate will take the message back to our Member States, to the regions and to the people we represent.
The EU, the Commission and the European Parliament should support cultural projects of this type even more than they have done to date.
In 1841, according to the census list, there were 1 821 shoemakers within the county.
The county's football team, Northampton Football Club, is still referred to as 'the Cobblers', and in Northamptonshire now we have 34 shoe factories still open, all over 100 years old.
So, whilst I completely understand the role of culture in countries' regions, I wonder if or how the European Union can help us in these things.
From this perspective, regions are equally important for their cultural wealth - meaning the richness of their quality of life - which is extremely important at a time like the present when our lifestyle must change completely.
For this reason I would ask that we proceed with this debate, because it is so essential and because we must simply change our way of life. (PL) Madam President, the beauty of culture comes from its regional and local diversity, which changes with the development of society.
Regional and local cultures are gradually dying, and numerous forms of their expression, and their disciplines and creative skills are disappearing.
Within the exchange programme for European art collections, the public in Budapest can currently view an unparalleled Gustave Moreau and an Alfons Mucha exhibition in an important museum.
When we speak of regional identity in the European Union, it goes without saying that we invoke culture.
Franz Josef Strauß, the great Bavarian European, once said that we will only be able to remain Bavarians, Basques, Germans or Britons if we become Europeans in time - Europe not being a centralising factor, but a common roof against the rain of globalisation and standardisation. (RO) The European Union project, conceived rather as a mechanism for economic integration, owes a huge debt to the 'cement' represented by European culture.
For example, Romania has demonstrated that it can implement large-scale projects in partnership with European regions through the programme 'Sibiu, the 2007 European Capital of Culture', which had a major economic impact on the area.
Without it there will not be an economy or happy people in the European Union. (PL) Madam President, the cultural wealth of Europe comes from the great diversity of its regions.
Cultural diversity is in fact based, among other things, on the huge diversity of our regional cultures, a diversity which makes those regions and entire countries extremely attractive to tourists.
But we should also remember that regional culture is a bridge which enables people who live in the regions to participate in what is known as high culture.
The results of the study will highlight the value of investing in the cultural sector, including cultural and creative industries, and will underline the links between such investment, the specific regional development objectives and the Lisbon Agenda.
