Madam President, the decision that we are going to take tomorrow to approve the granting of almost EUR 700 000 from the Globalisation Fund to 675 Maltese workers who lost their jobs with the companies VF and Bortex in Malta is a display of solidarity, and solidarity is a main pillar of the European Union.
Madam President, today the workers of VF and Bortex have a better idea of what solidarity means and a better idea of what the European Union means, and I, from here, salute them. (RO) The recent demonstrations in Ljubljana have brought to the forefront the subject of salary differences between women and men, as a negative factor in the achievement of the social cohesion desideratum.
Also, given that oil is now fetching approximately EUR 110 per barrel, we can see that turf is now a very valuable economic resource for the individuals concerned.
Since January of this year, Televisi칩n Espa침ola, TV3 and Canal Sur have not been allowed permission to broadcast due to the coverage that they have been giving to the conflict, and recently the correspondent for Cadena COPE has been threatened with expulsion, along with Cadena SER and the newspaper La Vanguardia.
The friendship bridge near the town of Ostrihom, paid for with EU funds, is only 30 kilometres away from this village.
Meanwhile, at its plenary session on 16 April 2008 the Parliamentary Assembly will be examining a report entitled 'Access to safe and legal abortion in Europe', in which it is recommended that women are guaranteed access to abortion, that obstacles to the performance of abortions are removed, and that contraceptives are made available at low cost, including early-abortion methods, which is not only harmful from a medical aspect, but also highly unethical.
Having announced 575 job losses at Gandrange in Moselle on 4 April 2008, Arcelor-Mittal is agreeing to keep 124 jobs on the site provided that it can have CO2 emissions certificates.
On the basis of the agreement in force between Romania and the other members of the European Union, from 1 January 2007 the Romanian authorities were supposed to make pension payments directly to those affected.
Thank you very much. (SK) The local government in the Hungarian village of Mlynky, where 55% of the inhabitants are Slovak, approved the mayor's proposal to evict two Slovak minority organisations from the traditional 'Slovak House'.
The organisations protested to the local authorities in writing, drawing attention in their letter to the fact that it was a violation of the existing status and damaged the national interests of the Slovak minority in Mlynky.
The actions of the local government in Mlynky, which repeatedly attacks the Slovak minority, are a very bad signal, particularly at a time when senior officials of the Slovak and Hungarian Governments are planning the meeting of their respective prime ministers, from which an improvement in relations between our countries is clearly expected. (SK) Some Members of the European Parliament have voiced their concerns about the construction of a coal-fired power plant in the town of Trebi코ov in eastern Slovakia.
This is not only a growing threat but also a challenge, which fundamentally affects not just all people with democratic views in Hungary and neighbouring countries, but Europe as a whole.
This is why I am calling on the European institutions to start dealing with this matter in earnest. (PL) The Erasmus Mundus programme, which is intended to spread intercultural understanding and promote the European Union through its very good results in education, is not accessible to young people in Belarus.
Such a ban would not affect subsistence farming, but it would demonstrate a commitment to protect animal welfare. (PT) Mr President, in Portugal at the moment more multinationals are threatening to relocate a part of their production, as is the case with Yasaki Saltano and Delphi.
Now, claiming that the car industry is experiencing problems, Yasaki Saltano wants to make more than 400 workers redundant in Vila Nova de Gaia.
Two questions arise in this connection: what is the position with regard to the social responsibility of those companies and when will measures be taken to prevent such relocation in defence of workers' rights and production in our countries? (HU) First Kosovo, now Tibet.
Poland has of course removed all control points and consequently in my province alone we have shut down as many as 55 border crossings.
As Members of the European Parliament we must make our solidarity with Tibet evident, not only in words, but also through deeds.
The European Commission has recently condemned this conduct.
On the other hand, non-compliance with the Community rules in the field of agricultural expenses currently leads to the recovery of no less than 83 million euros by the European Commission from eleven Member States.
It is not a very large amount; but since the common agricultural policy is financed from public funds, I believe a more sustained involvement from the European Commission in assisting the Member States is necessary, especially in assisting the newly-integrated states, so that such irregularities would be considerably diminished and food security and safety would truly be an achievable objective in the European Union. (RO) The Commission will soon propose a new amendment to the Directive on charging heavy vehicles for access to the transport infrastructure.
Today, however, the date 23 August should be designated European Day of Remembrance for the victims of Stalinism and Nazism.
On 23 August 1939 the Nazis and the Bolsheviks carved Europe into two spheres of influence.
In so doing they inflicted a terrible wound on Europe which has not totally healed to this day. (RO) I would like to use this opportunity to speak in the European Parliament plenum about the history of the NATO Summit hosted by Bucharest, the capital of Romania, on 2 - 4 April.
I am confident that we, the European Union, in general, and the European Parliament in particular, will also have the openness to encourage Ukraine and Georgia to undertake the correct path, the European path. (PL) Mr President, the process of ratification of the EU Reform Treaty is continuing.
Bearing in mind the reconciliation between the Polish and Ukrainian peoples, I would like to appeal, through the forum of the European Parliament, to the authorities of the city of Lw칩w for the return of the church to the church authorities, in order to deepen the friendship between our peoples, Polish and Ukrainian, and also in order for this church to become a symbol of reconciliation, which is so important in view of the approaching Euro 2012 Championship. (RO) I would like to raise the issue of the people suffering from leukaemia, who die every day in Romania or in other Member States, without being able to do anything because certain countries are not included in the international register of non-family donors.
These two countries' path to joining NATO should be irreversible, and the years 2008-2009 should become significant in recording progress in this direction, both from the two countries and from NATO.
Granting the right to hold the Olympic Games in Moscow in 1980 was probably an artful plan designed by Jimmy Carter's administration and his national security adviser, Zbigniew Brzezinski, to open the Soviet Union, at least for a short period, to the West and its democratic influence.
Our presence at the Olympic Games in Beijing should not be viewed as an acceptance of the Chinese authorities but as an effort to make the Chinese people see the need for the transition to a new regime. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the 25 fellow Members who signed a letter to the Cambodian Prime Minister and dictator Hun Sen, bringing up the case of Saumura Tioulong, one of the leaders of the Sam Rainsy Party.
I would also like to bring this case to the attention of the Commission.
It seems to me that this is one of the statements and ideas we need to help the Chinese regime to overcome in order to bring democracy to China, Tibet and elsewhere. (BG) In the past 48 hours, there have been three contract killings in Sofia, Bulgaria.
Since Roumen Petkov, the current Minister of Interior, took office, a total of 22 contract killings of business people, mafia bosses and politicians have been carried out in Bulgaria.
On Monday, in the bright of day, writer Georgi Stoev was murdered.
In addition, up to 5 000 people have 'disappeared' - mostly murdered - at the hands of the state security services.
Approximately 250 000 Sudanese refugees have crossed over the border since 2003, almost all of whom are located in 12 camps in the east of the country.
There are also about 180 000 IDPs in eastern Chad who have moved and continue to move, fleeing inter-ethnic violence.
The use of the trade defence instruments has to be more accessible, more efficient and more transparent.
The temptation of protectionism has to be strongly discouraged. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, on 5 April, the Christian orthodox priest Youssef Adel was assassinated by unknown assailants in the centre of Baghdad.
