&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 24 February 2005. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin this sitting by making a statement on certain issues which are topical and which have been raised by some Members of this Parliament.
In tribute to him, I would like today to join with the Italian authorities, in particular Presidents Ciampi and Berlusconi, who have called on the United States authorities to clarify fully the dramatic circumstances in which Nicola Calipari died.
I would like our Parliament to join the Italian people in their acknowledgement and, on behalf of all of you, to communicate our solidarity and friendship to his family at this painful time.
Today, Giuliana is back amongst us and enjoying freedom, but we must continue our efforts to achieve the release of Florence Aubenas and her interpreter and guide, Hussein Hanun Al-Saadi.
In these circumstances, the European Parliament must once again state that there can be no democracy without freedom of information and that the security of journalists must be protected in every part of the world.
As you know, centuries of fratricidal wars between our countries are etched on our memories.
Just a few days ago, our Polish colleagues asked that we observe a minute’s silence to remember the massacre in Katyn, Miednoye and Jarkov, when 14&#160;000 Polish officers were executed in cold blood by the Stalin regime on 5 March 1940.
On the one hand, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has requested that the Commission make a statement on its position on services in the internal market.
Secondly, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has requested that Commissioner McCreevy make a statement tomorrow, Tuesday, at the same time, on the Directive on the patentability of computer software, followed, at least, by speeches by the political groups.
The Group of the Greens has also requested that on Wednesday the Council and Commission statement on the health workers detained in Libya be replaced by a Council and Commission statement on the patentability of computer software.
I am therefore going to submit the Group of the Green’s request that the Commission make a statement on its position on services in the internal market to a vote by a show of hands, naturally. &#160;&#160; Mr President, is there any reason why the Commission cannot deal with both the Services Directive and software patents at 6 p.m.
I would support this as an alternative compromise. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, we too are perfectly happy with this proposal, on condition that discussion of the subject is not completed in thirty minutes. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I did not properly understand what you were proposing to us at the start.
We do not, therefore, want there to be any confusion between the two debates, and we prefer to give all the time needed to the debate following the Commission statement on the directive on liberalisation of services. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should just like to make it clear that our request regarding the software patents debate was a call not just for a Commission statement but also for a Council statement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, irrespective of how the vote turns out, I would just ask you to ensure that tomorrow’s questions to the Commission can be of the same length, as that is a fundamental parliamentary right, and one guaranteed by the Treaties. &#160;&#160; Very well, Mr Posselt, you may rest assured that we shall do that.
We shall vote on the request for the Commission to make a statement tomorrow on services in the internal market and then, regardless of the result of that vote, we shall vote on the proposal that the Commission make a statement tomorrow on the patentability of computer software.
Last Thursday, when we had a special meeting with the rapporteur, all the committee members signed an oral question.
As a number of colleagues have indicated, the statement on the Computer-Implemented Inventions Directive must also involve the Council.
You will appreciate that changes to the agenda always create conflict and controversy; I must deal with the requests made by the political groups via their spokespeople. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this House has a very proud record of supporting the peace process in Northern Ireland and of supporting both the Irish and United Kingdom Governments in trying to achieve a lasting solution to the difficulties there.
However, the events of the last few months – the raid on the Northern Bank, the murder of Robert McCartney, the intimidation of witnesses, the evidence of money laundering – suggest there is extensive criminality, which has now become part and parcel of the Northern Ireland scene.
During the talks in Zagreb last week, our committee should have satisfied itself that the Croatian Government is responding to the Council Decision of 17 December and is wholeheartedly cooperating with the International Tribunal.
The first request is that you forward to the Cuban Foreign Affairs Minister the resolution adopted by Parliament on 17&#160;November of last year, which is Parliament’s position on the Cuban situation.
You may rest assured that I take very good note of your request and I shall communicate it to the Minister. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to refer to a manifesto issued by 157 state school teachers from the Basque Country affected by a Basque Government decree which means that they will lose the jobs they have been doing for more than 15 years, because they have not achieved a sufficiently high level in the Basque language, the co-official language with Castilian and the language in which the subject they teach is taught.
It is regrettable that the Basque Government, in its intransigence, is forcing these teachers out of the Basque public system, without recognising the professional work they have done or offering any compensatory solution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, thank you for giving me the floor.
Over and above Parliament’s rejection, expressed by the President, I should like to ask whether there are further initiatives the President has considered taking in this connection.
It is now time to ask whether the European Union is doing enough to prepare itself for a potential pandemic, and if not, why not? &#160;&#160; Mr President, millions of people around the world are currently observing International Women’s Day, and that includes Turkey, where, as we have heard, their demonstration was brutally suppressed.
The Basque Government, headed by Mr Ibarretxe, wishes to discriminate against, to marginalise and to expel these Basque teachers from the administration.
The Europe of freedoms, solidarity and equality must therefore ensure that regrettable cases such as this do not arise again in any part of our European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to commend you for taking a stance so promptly on the sad events in Turkey that we saw on television yesterday, where a demonstration to mark International Women’s Day was put down in a manner that was both extremely brutal and incompatible with Turkey’s commitments arising from its application to join the EU and from the decision made by Parliament and by the European institutions to open negotiations.
The Commission and the Council must also send out a clear message to Turkey that this is incompatible with its commitments as regards negotiating accession to the EU and that respect for human rights involves not only changing the law, but also putting that respect into practice. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mrs Gomes.
You will have noted that in the Presidency’s initial statement I referred to this issue and to the press release I have issued on behalf of all of you. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, in your opening speech you recalled the death of Nicola Calipari, but I would rather call it the murder of Nicola Calipari.
A statement by Mr Barroso was put out a few minutes ago, in which he describes what happened as an unfortunate incident.
In addition, I request that this issue should be included in the debate within the European Union on transatlantic relations, since we, as the European Union, have a very specific responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as has already been mentioned, this week we celebrate International Women’s Day, but I also hope that during this week Parliament will take time to help raise awareness of an illness that affects more than 14&#160;million women across Europe: endometriosis.
If nothing else makes us think, perhaps the fact that over EUR&#160;30&#160;billion is lost to our economy every year might make us think.
I hope colleagues will take the opportunity to sign it and support raising awareness of this horrible disease. &#160;&#160; Mr President, while endorsing the last point, I also wish to emphasise the points made by Mr Mitchell.
It has been reported in the press that the Turkish Foreign Minister, Mr Gül, has been critical of the European Commission’s representative, Mr Kretschmer, and has, in fact treated with contempt the criticisms he has made in recent days.
Notwithstanding our support for the commencement of negotiations with Turkey, Mr Gül’s recent actions are unacceptable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, further to what was said earlier by Mr Harbour, I would like to take this opportunity to make it quite plain that I think the House was very wise earlier to decide that we would be discussing both the Software Patent Directive and the Services Directive tomorrow evening.
What is more disgusting is that the regional government, run by a Moscow-born politician, is inactive and completely indifferent to these serious violations of human rights.
I call on the European Parliament to protest against these violations and to call on the regional government of the Federation to put a stop to human rights abuses. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to draw the attention of the House to the McCartney family in Belfast and pay tribute to their strength in their response to the recent murder of their brother and son Robert McCartney.
I have suffered far too much of that in my own constituency.
Thankfully things are much better now. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the highpoint of the opening of the so-called parliament of Communist China was the announcement of the vote on an anti-separatist law, amounting, in fact, to a threat against Taiwan, which – as we all know – has been a democratic country enjoying independence since 1941.
At the same time, the Communist regime announced a 12.6% increase in military expenditure.
It is difficult to see the two facts in complete isolation from one another.
It is at a time such as this that the European Council is preparing to lift the arms embargo against China, a decision which is completely unacceptable if Europe wants to retain its credibility in terms of human rights in the world.
It is therefore desirable that this House should send a strong message in favour of maintaining the arms embargo and against the so-called People’s Republic of China’s threat of aggression against democratic Taiwan. &#160;&#160; In Leeuwarden, Friesland, a strike is underway involving 30 workers of the company Atoglas who are protesting against the plan by its French parent company, Total Fina Elf, to close it down.
It is also beyond me that Total Fina should remain blind to the innovation that is taking place in Friesland, and, as the European Constitution specifically states that regional coherence and solidarity between the Member States is a common goal, we can also expect French companies to have an eye for regional development in the Netherlands.
I would urge my fellow MEPs to support the strikers in Friesland. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that you and many others have already called attention to the way in which yesterday’s women’s march in Istanbul was broken up, but also to other serious irregularities in Turkey.
This situation illustrates the fact that there is still little evidence in real life of the many reforms that exist on paper, that many reforms in terms of minority rights – those of the Kurds, for example – have even ground to a complete standstill and that we in this House must closely monitor developments over the next few months. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, regarding the financial perspectives, the situation is extremely worrying in a lot of areas, especially those of rural development and environmental protection.
The financial resources for 2007-2013 are manifestly insufficient, but budgetary constraints affect the Fifteen and the ten new Member States differently.
Resources do, however, clearly appear to be restricted or limited.
Wherever we may be on the political spectrum, though, we should join forces in expressing our indignation about the way in which the Torquemadas of the University of Lyon have sacrificed a Member of this House, Mr Gollnisch, on the altar of political correctness, simply on account of an indiscretion of opinion.
Not only is Rien Parlevliet seriously ill, and Li Yang and Eddy Tang, both from Rotterdam, are in a bad way, but I should also, and particularly, like to again highlight the cause of Machiel Kuijt.
Although consular affairs are within the remit of the Member States, I ask myself in all honesty whether the EU can allow the fundamental rights of its citizens to be flouted to this extent.
It is a good thing that the Commission follows these matters, but the Council and High Representative also have a role to play in this. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report (A6-0032/2005) by Alain Lipietz, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Report on the activities of the European Investment Bank (2003) [2004/2187(INI)]. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is exactly five years since the European Parliament began its dialogue with the European Investment Bank in an own-initiative report.
I was already your rapporteur five years ago and I can therefore bear witness to the extraordinary progress those five years have seen in the quality of the dialogue between the European Investment Bank and the European Parliament, in the quality of that dialogue with civil society and in the matching of the European Investment Bank’s policy with the tasks assigned to it since the European Union was formed.
I would therefore like to begin by expressing the heartfelt gratitude of all of us who were already present during the last legislative period and, I hope, of all who will now be taking an interest in the European Investment Bank’s work and its contribution to the implementation of European policy.
Secondly, we in the European Parliament were among those calling most strongly for the European Investment Bank to make loans to small and medium-sized businesses.
In this case, we risk losing the ability to check that these loans are consistent with European Union objectives and we need to find a way of checking where these global loans have gone, obviously.
Thirdly, it has to be possible to extend this microcredit policy to an area that is very important in a society that is both a knowledge-based economy and also an ageing economy.
Finally, my last point: in the first version of my report we noted the criticism voiced in certain sections of the press, mainly outside the European Union as it happens, regarding possible conflicts of interest involving senior EIB management staff because of their past activities at the head of large private undertakings that might benefit from EIB loans.
I would particularly like to highlight the bank’s work in the Mediterranean partner countries, where activities under the FEMIP have grown year-on-year.
The Commission acknowledges the good work undertaken by the EIB in recent years to improve its transparency and corporate governance.
The question is how prudential control can be best guaranteed in future.
The emphasis should indeed be on the role which the EIB can play in the Lisbon strategy, in strengthening innovation, as well as research and development.
I should therefore like to ask the EIB to develop a suitable instrument for this, so that, for example, companies are able to take part in programmes such as CRAFT and Collective Research more quickly.
SMEs must be given an even more enhanced role where the use of loans is concerned, because the differences between Member States are significant.
I would therefore urge the EIB, during promotion, to involve the SMEs directly and promote credits not only via banks in the Member States, because there appear to be too many differences between the Member States, especially between the new ones.
The high level of cooperation between Parliament and the EIB during the last five years has been mentioned in this debate.
As we know – and the report mentions this – the EIB has been in existence for a long time, indeed since the Communities were founded.
The report before us naturally points this out, painting the bank’s activities in a wholly positive light, acknowledging that the more it participates in dialogue with Parliament, the greater the effectiveness and transparency of its activities.
The first of these ideas is that the Bank can and must play an increasingly prominent role in the development of the European economy, particularly during times of recession, focusing its resources and policies on economic growth and cohesion.
The third idea is that the Bank must assess the real contribution of its policy on the Lisbon Strategy, which means that the Bank must quantify the results of its actions and immediately disclose those results to the public.
The fourth principle is that the Bank’s activities should have a visible and quantifiable effect on job creation and a positive impact on the economic climate, which hinders the full development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The sixth principle is that all of this is perfectly compatible with the EIB’s firm commitment in its activities to transparency and accountability, which the public demands and which has been consolidated in dialogue with Parliament.
Various Members have already underlined the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises as Europe’s job generators.
A minor detail, and one on which I myself am satisfied, is the Year of Microcredit being mentioned, and on World Women’s Day, it may also be worth adding that investments in small enterprises run by women have proven particularly profitable in other parts of the world.
Finally, as some Members have already pointed out, good progress has been made in the areas of transparency and governance.
There are, however, still a few points of criticism, including the criticism levelled by Bank Watch and, in fact, by the rapporteur.
EIB credits are an easy way to aid the financial development of countries outside the European Union.
Instead, the Bank leant more in the direction of the Mediterranean region, under the influence of some countries in the south.
This kind of situation should be rectified in the future.
We cannot accept a situation where Member States do not consider all the Union’s neighbouring regions impartially, but instead, try to favour their own neighbours.
We saw last year in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs with Mrs Ridruejo’s draft report that it is not easy to draft a report on the EIB’s activities.
The granting of credits to businesses must also be assessed in terms of its environmental effect, and that is why I would argue in favour of including an environmental impact report in credit assessments.
The rapporteur is right to conclude, in paragraph 20, that greater attention should be paid to improving the auditing to which the EIB is subject.
The EIB is a financial EU institution that has been set up by treaty, and should therefore also be subject to scrutiny by the European Court of Auditors.
A good relationship with the Court of Auditors and OLAF can contribute to growing confidence.
I hope to have these questions answered during this debate.
In a House that claims to the outside world that it defends transparency, its bureau, without negotiating with the Members and without publicising it in any way, intends to enact rules that are a mockery of press freedom and are intended to permit nothing but obsequious and uncritical reporting.
The same can be said of item 7 on the meeting’s agenda.
I very much welcome paragraph 21 of this report, which gives voice to concern about the potential conflicts of interest among the EIB’s management, to which there have been repeated references in the press.
Generally important though I regard the Bank as being, we can see that the absence of transparency excludes the possibility of trust and democracy, in this House as much as in the EIB. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it comes as a surprise to hear Members speak in this debate – the previous speaker, who has missed the point, being one of them – while not having been present for the vote on the report in the committee of which they are members.
Point 21 of this resolution does not in any way indicate dissatisfaction on our part with the EIB’s transparency.
I would, for example, mention the EUR&#160;7.1&#160;billion that was invested in 2004 within the context of the Innovation initiative.
I would particularly like to make a point of mentioning -technology, assessment centres, and cooperation between different activities under the research framework programme.
I also hope that the ECOFIN ministers will establish a connection between investing and the way in which they deal with spending and investments in the Stability and Growth Pact.
I also hope that this discussion will be continued. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this report spells out the important role that the European Investment Bank plays in the EU’s development policies.
While I am thinking here of the war on poverty in particular, I might add that too little has been said, among the topics addressed by the report, about investments within the EU.
Effective though it was in media terms for Mr Barroso, the President of the Commission, to announce up to EUR&#160;1 billion’s worth of aid, to be arranged through the EIB, I would like to take this opportunity to ram the point home that the money will not flow if conditions remain as they are.
To requests for such co-funding, then, I ask the House not to turn a deaf ear. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Investment Bank must and should cooperate closely with the European Central Bank and the European Commission, but at the same time its priorities need to be clear.
If the European economy is to develop, then the European Investment Bank must step up its support for the SME sector, for the social economy sector and for what are known as local services, as this is particularly important from a demographic point of view.
It is essential that all EU-related institutions, in particular financial institutions, be transparent.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as one of the basic financing institutions of the European Union, I consider the importance of the role of the European Investment Bank in achieving the objectives of the Lisbon strategy to be self-evident.
Within these frameworks, I commend the effort of the European Investment Bank to guide the investments of the European Union on the basis of the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy.
That is why I welcome the increase in loans for small businesses.
I should like to close by emphasising the need to coordinate the activities of the European Investment Bank with all the policies of the European Union at national and European level.
It is true that the European Investment Bank is not formally an institution of the European Union.
Its shareholders are the Member States and we are answerable to our shareholders, that is to say the national governments and parliaments; on the other hand, however, the European Investment Bank was created by the Treaty and, as we have mentioned, its task is to support the European Union’s political objectives financially.
Indisputably, Parliament is now able to take a more positive view of the EIB in a number of areas, because several recommendations made by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and adopted by this House have been implemented and progress has been made as a result, especially in the matters of governance, transparency and the quality of supervision.
Parliament suggested that the European Central Bank might supervise the EIB.
A word about our activities in the European Union.
I have noted the particular stress several Members of this House placed on our contribution to the Lisbon strategy.
After Lisbon, we therefore launched a programme that we call ‘i2i’: the Innovation 2010 Initiative.
As part of this i2i programme, we have already adopted new types of loan, with risk sharing.
Finally, a word about our activities outside the European Union.
As Mrs Zimmer briefly mentioned, the aim is to combine the resources of the Commission, the Member States and the European Investment Bank better in order to make our development assistance more effective and involve us more directly in the pursuit of the Millennium Goals.
To Mr Seppänen I will simply say that we agree entirely with his suggestion concerning the guarantee fund.
We are at the disposal of Parliament’s different committees to examine these issues in greater depth. &#160;&#160; I thank you, Mr Maystadt, and your institution for the work that it does. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I refer to Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure as they stand.
When access to the natural gas networks is discussed at the Madrid Forum among all the stakeholders, I would have liked the Commission to continue to listen to all parties involved in the future when a proposal for a regulation is being amended or added to.
The inclusion of such an article in the text did not succeed for legal reasons.
A wise Commission, having a monopoly in the presentation of laws compared to the Council and Parliament, will surely allow the Madrid Forum to remain a cohesive entity and will listen intently to all its interested parties.
As transmission networks are needed to carry gas from one country to another, the gas market can only operate effectively if the same pipelines can carry gas sold by a large number of producers and purchased by a large number of consumers.
As the price of gas has risen in some Member States this winter in a way that is out of proportion with trends in other countries, the Commission should explain what is at issue here.
Our objective in Parliament has been that this regulation should enter into force as quickly as possible.
Hopefully, it will help to persuade certain Member States to honour the commitments that, on the one hand, they have made to safeguard access to gas networks, but which, on the other, they have not put into effect.
Thanks to the constructive approach of the rapporteur, Mr Seppänen, and his colleagues in all the political groups in Parliament, we arrived at a text that will bring about the desired results.
The regulation, once effective, will provide a level playing field for conditions for access to the gas transmission networks across the whole European market, hence completing a crucial element of the Internal Gas Market Directive.
The European Parliament has played a crucial role in the whole process.
Most of the amendments adopted at first reading have been accepted by both the Council and the Commission.
The Commission can fully accept the outcome of the compromise between the European Parliament and the Council.
Its results finally pave the way for adoption of the regulation by the Council and thus add an important piece of legislation to the legal framework establishing the internal market for gas.
Discussions on a voluntary agreement on guidelines for non-discriminatory conditions for access to storage facilities are nearing a successful conclusion.
Like the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats as a whole, I take the view that this means it was a good thing that we did not have this Regulation make reference to the storage of gas, on which there was as yet no consensus, and I am not persuaded either that there are any compelling reasons for there to be a legal regime on this.
Our new Members did, of course, have new ideas, and the fact that a compromise had very largely already been reached with the Council meant that it was very difficult to take these on board.
This common market and the exploitation of these efficiency gains demand that we open up the national market segments and turn them into a single internal market in energy, and hence require transparent and discrimination-free access to the networks.
That is why it was important, in one instance that I want to draw to your particular attention, for us to again tighten up the common position on the tariff structure, having already got many other points accepted.
That being so, it should be generally supported in the House. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am grateful to Mr&#160;Seppänen for the detailed work that he has enabled us to carry out.
I wish to underline the importance of the directive concerning the completion of the internal market for gas.
The directive, which was adopted last year, lays down fair and detailed rules for access to Member States’ gas transmission networks by third parties, taking account of the individual nature of national and regional markets.
It is important to bear in mind that the proposal has been drawn up on the basis of voluntary agreements made within the European Gas Regulatory Forum, which will become binding through this regulation.
The main changes introduced by the Council concern the guidelines referred to in Article 9, which have been reduced in scope, and the removal of the Commission’s power to adopt new guidelines through the committee procedure and its power to amend the guidelines laid down in the annexes.
I should also like to point out that the Council has put back the date for the regulation to enter into force from 1&#160;July 2005 to 1&#160;July 2006, except for Article&#160;9(2), which will enter into force six months later.
There are two main reasons.
This is where it is cause for concern that Europe’s major electricity providers are now also the main suppliers of gas.
We have to be active in preventing, for example, the Big Four in Germany forming themselves into a vertical and even broader structure and buying out all the smaller and medium-sized distributors.
There are also big differences in the conditions for access among the transmission system operators.
Unfair conditions of access to the gas network are a hindrance to the market’s function in this sector.
The internal market will not function without minimum standards regarding third party access to the network.
This crucial piece of legislation on conditions for access to natural gas transmission networks is needed for the internal market to function.
As regards access to storage facilities, I would again like to draw to your attention that we will soon have a voluntary agreement on guidelines for non-discriminatory access conditions to storage facilities, and if necessary further action will be taken.
This regulation represents one of the steps needed to create the right conditions for the internal market in energy.
The Madrid Forum has proved to be extremely successful, which is why access to storage should be handled in the same way.
I wish to thank Parliament and the rapporteur for the good work done in preparing this piece of legislation on the energy market. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question to the Commission (B6-0018/2005) by Mechtild Rothe, Reino Paasilinna and Hannes Swoboda, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, and by Dimitrios Papadimoulis, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, on alternative forms of energy, the oral question to the Commission (B6-0157/2005) by Rebecca Harms and Claude Turmes, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, on alternative forms of energy and the oral question to the Commission (B6-0158/2005) by Lena Ek, on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, on alternative forms of energy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if one is to believe the media – and, in this instance, one might well – 2004 saw the five largest oil groups achieve net profits of EUR&#160;65 billion, EUR&#160;37 billion of which were attributable to the three ‘European’ groups, that is, Shell, BP and Total.
If you consider the current situation and track the developments in demand, it can be assumed that this result is certain to be surpassed in 2005.
Far from this being merely a short-term fluctuation in growth, the need for energy in many major countries, such as China and India, means that these profits will increase still further.
Unless I am wrong, EUR&#160;900 million have been set aside for Community research in these various areas between 2003 and 2006.
I therefore think it really is time that these profits also yielded up something for the development and application of alternative, renewable energies, in other words for sustainable energy systems in general.
What, for the international oil companies, could be better than to show their responsibility by being willing to do as the Commission wishes – which I hope it does – and discuss this with it, in order that we may together come to a voluntary agreement to use at least some of these windfall profits for research into, and development of, sustainable energy systems.
The oil companies would be well advised to show themselves to be socially responsible and to develop alternative energy systems. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, given the important advantages of alternative forms of energy to the environment, public health and citizens’ quality of life, the question to which neither the Commission nor the European Parliament has given an effective answer is: how can we promote the further development of alternative forms of energy, so that the citizens can enjoy their advantages?
We have before us the recent Commission report, which notes a serious delay in relation to the objectives set in Directive 2001/77.
In other words, we need to protect these markets from the shackles of an energy system built – together with its legal bases – at a time when alternative forms of energy were almost unheard of.
I await the Commission’s response and – more importantly – the next steps with interest. &#160;&#160; Mr President, people in Iraq are dying in the war for oil.
No, there are some winners: six of the ‘Seven Sisters’ – including Exxon, Total, Shell, BP, – have earned scandalous amounts of money over the past two to three years.
What is more, we have huge environmental problems, which we are all agreed must be solved, together with very ambitious environmental objectives.
At the same time, energy prices are rising.
As I have already mentioned, certain countries are hugely dependent upon imports.
When it comes to energy policy in Europe, we must stabilise access to energy.
My first question is therefore as follows: how will the Commission ensure that the energy supply is stabilised?
In addition, we must transform the energy supply in Europe, that is to say we must obtain the environmentally friendly energy that we are agreed is needed.
We also have both environmental and employment objectives that must be complied with.
Thirdly, we need to give new impetus to the energy supply, that is to say produce more energy.
My question concerns what is being done to ensure that, through district heating, co-generation etc., Europe’s basic industry also produces more energy.
The latest oil price increases are a strong reminder that the oil market remains volatile.
In addition, our own energy sources are either low or, in certain cases, less competitive.
It is therefore essentially on the demand side that the EU can and should intervene.
All those actions point to a reduction in the use of hydrocarbons in our society and a decrease in their share of the energy mix.
It will also be difficult to tell companies how to spend their profits.
I have also to point out that major oil companies, such as BP, Shell, Repsol and Total, have already started substantial research, development and deployment activities in renewable energies and CO2 capture and storage.
In my discussions with them I always stress the importance of their playing an increasingly active role in this area.
In my further contacts with the oil companies active in the European Union area I will, therefore, strongly encourage their commitment to research into and development of renewable energies and CO2 capture and storage.
In this context, the proposal of the Commission regarding the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development, which is planned to be adopted in April 2005, will open the interinstitutional debate on the key European Union priorities for research and technological development for the coming years.
The European commitments, not least those related to climate change, have been translated into a number of operational targets in energy policy that at the same time promote the competitiveness of our industry.
The production of these fuels not only contributes to meeting our Kyoto targets, but also has a positive effect on rural development and therefore on our global economy.
I think that the most important direct effect on our economy will, however, come from strong policy action to increase energy efficiency throughout our society.
This is knocking on an open door, because the companies are already investing very substantial sums in alternative and successor technologies in researching a whole range of different technologies.
It has been mentioned that companies are already doing just this, albeit on a small scale compared to the huge importance of these issues we are speaking about.
The more than EUR 60 billion profit made last year is so incredible that it even exceeds many countries’ budgets.
This then is more about countries than just companies.
War has been waged over oil on many occasions in the Middle East.
The Commissioner said that it is difficult to interfere in the business of companies.
This would be a very clear signal to the oil companies that they have to invest in alternatives and do more to promote them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is a good thing that this newly-elected Parliament should discuss renewable energies, something we have not done since the election.
Admittedly, there will be a report from the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, but I am sure we will be waiting another few months for it.
Another issue is that there are a number of companies that are already doing a very great deal in the field of renewable energies, and others that are not yet doing so, and there is a lack of nuance in treating them both the same.
I am grateful to Commissioner Piebalgs for stating the fundamental principles so clearly.
Among renewable energies, I believe, we have to prioritise in a new way.
The Commission will be heading in the right direction if it addresses this issue and improves the framework conditions in Europe for use of solar energy for heating purposes and for the use of biomass as a whole.
Where that is concerned, I think all the groups in this House are behind you. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened to what the Commissioner said, and it seemed clear to me.
By promoting renewables, I believe we can help to achieve the targets of our general energy policy, security of supply and competitiveness, as well as improving and strengthening environmental protection and sustainable development.
In this specific case, I find it perfectly natural to call on businesses such as the oil companies – which have been able to enjoy special market conditions and make sizeable profits – to play their part alongside others with appropriate funding for plans and projects relating to alternative, renewable forms of energy.
Of the possible actions already brought up in the debate, one that I regard as extremely important is taking action in our major cities and large towns by investing resources to improve them from an energy and environmental point of view.
That would be a useful answer that the Commission could give to every European citizen. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I listened to the Commissioner with increasing hope that this debate would lead to something more than the warm words and hot air that we have seen on this subject so far.
The European Commission is in an ideal position to provide the leadership and structure that these emerging technologies need.
Let me remind Mr Turmes that oil prices are driven up not only by the oil-producing countries and the crude oil companies, but also and primarily by states, through taxation.
We have to keep our feet on the ground and stick to the areas where we are in a position to do something – security of energy supply, the development of alternative forms of energy, promoting research, the overall framework.
That is where we have to discharge this responsibility, but not by taking the excessive profits of oil companies as our starting point.
We rely on that being where the responsibility for the security of our energy supply is discharged. &#160;&#160; Mr President, about three months ago, on 10 and 11 December, I, on behalf of this House, took part in the trilateral energy conference of the Nordic Council, the Baltic Assembly and the Benelux Interparliamentary Consultative Council, which was concerned with the promotion of renewable energy, as well as with the future of nuclear sources.
Within the priorities of this Parliament and on a voluntary basis – except for ‘stealth taxes’ on energy, which are unacceptable – but within these pre-conditions, Commissioner Piebalgs can certainly enter into dialogue without any problem.
I would like to find out from the Commissioner how he tackles the discussions he referred to in practice. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to put the question of alternative forms of energy into the context of the Lisbon Strategy and the approach to climate change taken in the Kyoto protocol.
Greater aid and joint financing is necessary not only from the Union, but also from Member States.
The Commission should do everything to ensure that Member States have greater financial access to development, and also that external costs should appear in the price of energy used.
Energy policy has not been sufficiently debated either in this House or in the European Union.
The very fact that we are asking ourselves how we can achieve the target of 22% for green electricity, when the current forecast is for an insufficient 19%, is already a success in itself.
At the same time, the biggest challenge is to foster concerted efforts to create new technologies.
CO2 capture and storage and other new environmental technologies are now on the agenda.
It is a discourtesy to Members of this House to interrupt others’ speaking time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do think it is permissible to defend oneself when a Member of this House, for demagogic reasons, consistently lumps Social Democrats in with Communists.
The licence will make it easier to organise these services either side of the borders and will contribute to labour mobility in the field of air traffic control.
To put an end to the present diversity of national rules, the proposal for a directive introduces high Community standards for the full range of skills that are essential for safety.
The proposal’s added value is therefore not so much the drawing up of those standards as their introduction into a Community framework that will enable them to be applied in a truly harmonised manner.
As I am sure you know, the Council’s work has made good progress and a general approach was adopted at the ‘Transport’ Council on 9 December last.
That approach respects the logic of our proposal and I will say that it clarifies our proposal in a number of places or else strengthens it, especially where the practicalities of management are concerned, with a view to the better management of mutual recognition, for example, or to applying the directive to current licence holders.
At that time, we also – as you said – put on the agenda more things that we wanted the four regulations to do, it having become apparent from discussions at the time that there were many incompatibilities in the field of air traffic control, whether the hardware, the technology, or even the actual services performed by air traffic controllers.
That is all the more astonishing when one considers that many of the preconditions and standards have been made the subject of international rules by the ICAO or by Eurocontrol.
It is also clear from conversations with Members that there is scarcely dissent, except – as always – on minor points with the Council, but I am confident that we will agree on a joint regulation as soon as possible.
Both the rapporteur and – indirectly – the Commission have already observed that the outcome in the committee was almost unanimous.
The directive on the air traffic controllers’ licence is a significant step towards the realisation of our great goal of a single European sky.
What we see as important as regards increased mobility is that we should be able to reduce excessively stringent requirements as regards local languages – and here I am not talking about English – to justifiable individual instances.
We Social Democrats also take the trade unions’ concerns seriously, and that is why we want explicit mention in the directive of social dialogue.
Particularly in view of the heated debate on the services directive, we also see it as important that the host country principle should apply to air traffic controllers; firstly, as a means of preventing social dumping, and secondly, in order to enable the controllers to work together as a team without that being undermined.
There are a few more points, of great importance to me in this context, that I would like to mention.
I thank all Members of the House for their good cooperation. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group voted in favour of Mr Schmitt’s report in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, even though we are, of course, rather sad that our amendment on the treatment of flight controllers as a public service was not accepted.
If harmonisation proves successful in certain political fields, if we manage to bring about the same conditions, that cannot do other than improve social standards and safety in every instance, and consequently bring about fairer competition among ourselves.
English is already the language of air control.
The report contains phrases such as: ‘the right of Member States to develop national endorsements should only apply in exceptional cases’.
World airlines fear the EU’s costly desire to switch air control from radar to Galileo, but the EU’s air control agenda is not really about airways, it is about EU control and control for the sake of it. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, members of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the issues dealt with in the Parliament and Council directive on a Community air traffic controller licence are key issues in the field of civil aviation safety.
These regulations must also cover air traffic controller licences, because the work of air traffic controllers must meet the highest possible standards of responsibility and professionalism.
With regard to knowledge of languages, air traffic controllers obviously need a very good knowledge of English, the common language, yet they should also be fluent in the local language, as this would be particularly important in a crisis.
Many thanks. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, all of us – at least those of us who attended the parliamentary debates during the last legislature on this issue – remember the emphasis placed on initiatives aimed at improving the organisation, punctuality and safety of navigation and air traffic control services and, on a practical level, at creating a single European sky and related regulations.
This also confirms that neither the economic aspects, nor, more importantly, the social aspects of the European single sky, including vocational training, have been overlooked by the Commission or by Parliament.
Mr President, I now hope that, when it is put into practice by the Member States, this initiative fully achieves all the objectives for which it was created and that it constitutes a practical opportunity to enhance the effectiveness of ATM services and of air transport safety for the benefit of its users, which, ultimately, we all are. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would like first to congratulate Mr Schmitt on the extremely full and balanced nature of his work.
I believe the text meets all these requirements.
From that point of view, I am very pleased with it.
It will be the explicit confirmation of what we all want, that is to say harmonisation, not social dumping.
Most of the amendments seek to clarify the text of the proposal for a directive and to highlight safety, because safety really is this text’s absolute priority, or to introduce continuation training in the realm of safety.
Such is the case with Amendments 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 15.
The Commission will be able to back your position on the language rules, which in a balanced way reconciles legitimate safety concerns and the rights of free movement of controllers; your Amendments 10 and 17 bring about genuine convergence between the positions of Parliament and the Council.
The Commission fully supports the principle of Amendment 6 concerning monitoring by the social partners and involving and consulting them.
I have already stressed this point in my first speech.
Then there is the amendment that introduces the reference to the law of the place of work in the case of mobility.
The Worker Secondment Directive does in fact provide that the conditions of the place of work shall apply in the case of secondment.
In other words, this text, which is essentially about safety, is located in the context of a Community social law that can well be referred to in the recitals.
The Commission is therefore able to agree to a complete deletion of the paragraph concerned, your concern for sound management already being covered by other sources of Community law.
Yes, it is true, the text is even better, proving once again the importance of Parliament’s work as co-legislator.
If you validate this approach in tomorrow’s vote, I therefore believe we will have made progress towards achieving the objectives we have all set ourselves: that is, seeking even greater safety in the field of air traffic control.
That is what Europe’s citizens are expecting of us, and it is all the more necessary if we want air traffic to develop in the direction of a very high service quality, with, in particular, a level of safety that should make the European sky probably the safest sky in the world. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
I am therefore replacing him, which is not difficult because both my political group and I have the same view as Mr&#160;De&#160;Rossa when it comes to adopting a position at Parliament’s second reading.
It is fundamental to free movement in the EU to make it easier for people to move between different Member States and, at the same time, be able to collect various social benefits.
When we debated the matter in the committee, there was a large majority in favour of our approving the Council’s common position.
We have therefore been advised by Parliament’s legal service to alter paragraph 2.
Secondly, and if we look at the matter as a whole and at what we said at first reading, the Council has in actual fact taken a great deal of account, even a great deal of account, of the views expressed by Parliament.
The two views I am now discussing, that is to say firstly that we must not delay the process and, secondly, that we have to a large extent had our opinions taken into consideration, mean that we should approve the common position, but with the amendment that has been tabled so as to avoid legal uncertainty.
I cannot see that it is in anyone’s interest to delay this process or to reject the common position.
The Commission proposal before us today seeks to update the Community regulations on the coordination of the Member States’ social security schemes in order to take account of changing national legislation, to clarify the legal position regarding certain articles of those regulations and to take account of recent developments in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, especially as concerns Annex IIa of Regulation 1408/71.
It is special when its main purpose is to guarantee a minimum subsistence income or when it is intended solely for the specific protection of the disabled.
The rapporteur and the committee rightly drew attention to the major improvements this regulation will be able to bring to the citizen and, consequently, the necessity of accepting the Council common position if the progress made is not to be jeopardised.
On the basis of those clarifications and findings of the Court of Justice, the Commission will if appropriate present a proposal revising the list contained in Annex IIa.
I therefore thank Parliament for its work, Mr&#160;President, and, I hope, for adopting this text. &#160;&#160; .
Today, we are debating the annual amendment of Regulation 1408/71 to take account of changes in social legislation and social security schemes in the Member States.
This involves incorporation of the ECJ’s case law, and checking whether the elements that accompany those modifications meet the general criteria for mobility and freedom of movement, but also for those of Regulation&#160;1408/71, the Member States’ proposals having therefore been verified beforehand.
It is examined whether the proposals contain elements in respect of which certain benefits should be exportable or not.
Then, however, the Legal Service came on the scene and told us that we in this House cannot approve something that the ECJ has not accepted.
I should like to thank the rapporteur for the work that he has done on this.
The wording is important.
While it is true that they can apply to be recognised for particular allowances in other Member States, this is not particularly helpful at times when, for example, in the UK they have to have been resident for 26 out of the previous 52 weeks before being eligible for disability allowance.
Mr President, in his article in the current issue of Parliament’s magazine, Mr De Rossa stated that his resolution was carried unanimously in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
As regards the three United Kingdom benefits, let me say unequivocally that Her Majesty’s elected government should be treated like its Irish counterparts in that respect and that should be the end of the matter. &#160;&#160; Social security is a value which we espouse in the Member States of the European Union.
It is a matter of even greater importance to all those who are incapacitated as a result of disability, sickness or old age.
For this reason social security systems in the Member States of the European Union must be harmonised so that all cases can receive equal treatment.
I want to emphasise once again that this common position seeks to improve in several respects the rights of European citizens moving within the European Union.
Under these circumstances of course – Mrs Oomen-Ruijten will take no offence – the Commission does not support her amendment rejecting the common position because that amendment would jeopardise all the progress made by the Community legislator up until now in the matter of special non-contributory benefits.
I honestly believe that, even if the fate of those five benefits is still uncertain, the agreement reached in the Council and the support, which I believed to be quite broad, in Parliament should enable us to make significant social progress for all European citizens where the remainder of the benefits is concerned.
