Protection of minorities in Europe (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on the protection of traditional national, ethnic and immigrant minorities in Europe, by Csaba Sándor Tabajdi, Hannes Swoboda, Jan Marinus Wiersma, Véronique De Keyser, Katrin Saks and Claude Moraes, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament - B6-0005/2009).
The European Union must guarantee the rights, at the local, regional, national and EU levels, of indigenous and traditional minorities, the Roma, and the several million people who live in minority status and have no independent State, such as the Catalans, Basques, Scots, Bretons, Alsatians, Corsicans, Welsh, the Hungarian minorities in Romania, Slovakia and Serbia and other national communities.
It is very important that forms of joint decision making, self-governance and autonomy be set up on the basis of agreements between majorities and minorities, while fully respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Member States.
As regards persons who belong to immigrant minorities within a State, we must help them integrate as fully as possible, and the immigrant minorities in turn must show the highest possible respect for the language and customs of the State in question.
The Union may, however, adopt measures on some issues within its powers which have a positive effect on the situation of individuals belonging to minorities.
The adoption of the Framework Decision against Racism and Xenophobia on 28 November is a further example.
The integration of immigrants is an important and growing issue for the Member States of the European Union.
In addition, the Union has allocated a budget of EUR 825 million for 2007-2013 to implement the European Fund for the Integration of Third-Country Nationals.
The European Commission's policy on multilinguism includes regional languages as well as the languages spoken by minorities.
Respect for linguistic and cultural diversity is one of the cornerstones of the European Union.
Mr Tabajdi has undertaken an enormous task - to try to formulate and classify communities of peoples that have formed in historically different ways who, in greater or lesser numbers, live in states which have at their heart a different ethnic or linguistic origin.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than 45 million people belonging to 57 different minorities live in the European Union and in the other European countries.
The question of minorities falls within the competence of the Member States, and therefore these communities must, for the most part, be satisfied with whatever they can negotiate with their own governments.
The total number of citizens in the Central and Eastern European Member States who belong to various national, minority communities is significantly greater than in Western Europe, and their problems are also more complex.
In order not only for national minorities but also for everyone belonging to what are effectively minority EU nations to feel truly at home in Europe, European legislation must create a legal framework with comprehensive legal norms for the protection of minorities.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (SV) A debate at European level on the situation of various minority groups is very welcome.
Nearly a tenth of EU citizens currently belong to a national, linguistic or ethnic minority.
The Roma are one of the traditional minority groups that have been present in Union countries essentially as long as records exist.
The words of the former ombudsman for minorities in Hungary, Jenö Kaltenbacha, confirm this.
The number of Slovaks living in Hungary has fallen from more than 300 000 to 18 000 during the time in question.
Religious services are conducted only in Hungarian in all Slovak communities in Hungary, and they are conducted exclusively by Hungarian priests.
Yet the existence of these minorities within the European Union is not a political question but a matter of fact - there are millions living within the EU who are not immigrants.
These communities rightfully demand all those things that, in the case of similar-sized populations, the European Union deems to be the right of those who are part of a majority.
The rightful demands of these minorities, which are based on fundamental principles and current practice in the European Union, cannot constitute taboo subjects in the EU in the twenty-first century! (ES) Mr President, it is curious that in every parliamentary term, we have pointed out the non-existent or fragile legal and material protection of one or another minority group within Member States.
Each social group is different.
Member States' linguistic-historical minorities and their recognised and indisputable right to express themselves in their mother tongues have little or nothing to do with the new migration flows, which have their own identifying characteristics.
I shall end on this note: we have an obligation in our Member States to protect and preserve the traditions and values of the multicultural Europe that is emerging, and the duty of this Parliament is to establish integration standards within a common European framework that facilitates peaceful coexistence. (HU) Mr President, One out of every ten European citizens belongs to a national minority.
In terms of human rights, the European Union's greatest debt is in relation to the protection of minorities.
I find it painful that in the absence of the necessary support from the political groups, our joint debate today is coming to an end without a decision, and that it is still not possible to adopt the EU framework agreement on minority protection.
The right of asylum is a precious right as it is a right inherent to the human being.
That is the duty which is born of the freedom to come and go. (RO) I would like to express my support for the protection of minorities and respect for their culture, languages, traditions and customs.
It is not normal to raise for discussion concepts which are not yet enshrined in current international law and which are not accepted at Member State level.
We should remember that minority rights are an integral part of human rights and therefore our standards must be as high as possible.
The Copenhagen criteria on minority rights apply to accession countries - as we have already heard today - but these same rights do not exist within Community law.
In addition, various forms of oppressive nationalism often appear in the new Member States, especially since even the Copenhagen criteria are no longer binding.
It is vital for interethnic harmony in Europe that human rights are respected, but any separatist exploits triggered by the deterioration in ethnic rights must be halted.
I also feel that we should focus more attention on the situation of national minorities in the EU's neighbouring countries, all the more so when it involves citizens of the same nationality of some of the Member States.
As Commissioner Barrot has underlined, in each individual country of the Union, there is a clear and, more often than not, official legal framework that ensures the protection of our cultural diversity.
In fact, it teaches us that we are all someone else's minority.
This policy can be defined only when the current barriers to the free movement of workers from the Member States which joined the European Union after 2004 disappear within the EU.
As a European socialist, I support the development of a European framework for legal immigration, but I actively advocate, first and foremost, observance of the European Union's basic principles for all European citizens. (HU) Unfortunately, today this draft decision is being put to the Parliament only in the form of a question.
Representatives of traditional national minorities and communities have been trying to persuade the majority through peaceful parliamentary means that what was good for the 14 Member States of the European Union will be good for the entire territory of the EU.
These traditional national minorities are the most loyal citizens of their respective countries.
The various forms of self-governance found in the European Union, such as territorial and cultural autonomy, result from a policy of consensus on the part of the majority and minority, and have not weakened the economic, political or social power of the state in question, or that of the European Union.
My country, Romania, has been in existence in its current form since 1920.
Today, I want to use this demonstration - as well as the demonstration that an ethnic minority is not an ethnic minority merely for itself but has to experience solidarity - to give to these minorities a voice here in this House.
By making use of Articles 21 and 22 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 2 of the Treaty of Lisbon - let us hope that these enter into force as soon as possible - together with the Copenhagen criteria, and a small amount of flexibility and legislative imagination, we would be able to achieve a great many things.
Since there are 168 minority groups in the European Union and about 330 on the continent of Europe, 100 million of our fellow citizens on this continent are experiencing this situation.
We must work towards unity in cultural diversity. (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, the linguistic and cultural diversity that we value as an asset of the European Union often becomes a problem at the level of the Member States, especially in areas where borders have shifted due to the vicissitudes of history, or a minority has become the majority and the majority has become a minority, as in Estonia, my homeland.
It is crucial that all countries be treated in the same manner, and that minimal standards apply to all. (RO) First of all, I do not believe that the European Union needs a common policy for minorities.
In fact, the Hungarian minority party, which has been referred to this evening and during yesterday evening's debates, has formed part of the Romanian Government for 12 of the 19 years since Romania has been operating as a democratic state. (RO) Minorities of any kind must be supported, not only in terms of preserving a unique identity, their values, traditions and language, but also for developing their culture.
I welcome the progress which my fellow Members have made, as well as their constant concern for the protection of ethnic, traditional or national minorities.
However, in terms of relations between the majority and minority, I would like to advise you of two aspects: 1) I feel that not only members of a minority should be involved in measures of this kind, but majorities must also deal with issues relating to minorities, to the same extent, precisely in order to support and protect what we call 'unity in diversity', which is taking place in Romania. 2) I appreciate that minorities should equally be concerned about the status of the majorities as these two entities form, but only together, this unitary whole which contributes to the natural development of any society. (RO) As part of this debate, I would like to make a comment stating that national minorities make a great deal of fuss because they do not have arguments to support all the rights which they claim.
Some people have claimed that the rights of the Hungarian minorities are not respected in the area of education in Romania and, as my background is in education, I would like to give as an example Romania's universities, which adhere to European standards for treating minorities. (RO) As part of this debate, I would like to highlight the deterioration in respect for the religious rights of the Romanians living in Timoc Valley in Serbia.
We are talking here about a community of more than 100 000 Romanians.
I would like to emphasise that Serbia has undertaken, in accordance with Article 5 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, to respect human rights and protect ethnic and religious minorities.
There is no problem, however, because all European Union Member States are also members of the Council of Europe, an organisation which is well-equipped and well-experienced to address that issue.
I believe that in this field, as well, it would be better to develop our imagination more than our memory.
I think that there are more than one million Romanians living in Spain and Italy, but I do not see why they would ask for territorial autonomy in these countries.
The European Parliament must take the lead in defending ethnic minorities, by initiating a serious debate on the legal status of minorities.
Thank you. (SK) Yes, minorities must be respected and their rights must be legislatively guaranteed by the EU Member States.
At the end of the day, satisfied minorities are factors for stability in the countries of Europe.
Article 13 of the Treaty establishing the European Community has formed the legal basis for two directives: the Directive of 29 June 2000 implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, and the Directive of 27 November 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation.
The Member States will not allow us to.
I was therefore amazed by the ruling handed down by the Supreme Administrative Court in Lithuania on 30 January of this year.
Article 11 of the latter provides for the use of minority languages, including on street signs.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come from an area on the border between Hungary and Romania, in the county of Arad, where problems concerning minorities were overcome a long time ago.
In this region, where we have the counties of Arad, Timiş and Bihor in Romania, and Csongrád and Békés in Hungary, Romanians and Hungarians have together completed dozens of joint projects and are currently working on others, all using a single European language to resolve common European problems.
I invite anyone who would like to find out first hand about the Romanian model for resolving minority problems to take a look at the real situation first hand before they express their views at various European forums.
The rights of national minorities in EU Member States constitute an important issue in terms of human rights.
The right to use one's native language and the right to preserve one's traditional culture and customs are undoubtedly two of the rights that must be protected.
There have also been cases when minorities numbering several million persons have been ignored and have been refused the status of a minority.
They may not, however, create their own special areas to which they transfer the law of their countries of origin.
