That is unacceptable.
As you were able to note, the exhibition has been withdrawn because the Rules of Procedure require that the debate take place here, in this Chamber, and not by means of an exhibition from outside.
When this Parliament last discussed Iraq with the Commission and Council in July, Iraq’s political leaders were in the process of negotiating a new constitution.
It was humbling, particularly for those of us who come from countries which often take our freedoms and democracy for granted, to see the courage and determination of those who exercised their democratic rights and took part in the voting, braving difficult conditions and the threat of violence.
European Union support for the constitutional referendum had a significant impact.
The Commissioner will in a moment no doubt detail the valuable assistance which the Commission provided to the process in support of the Independent Electoral Commission for Iraq and of the UN.
The United Nations has played, and continues to play, a key and outstanding supporting role in the constitutional review and election processes.
The decision to approve the Constitution paved the way for December’s general election.
This should represent another major step in the political transition that will eventually lead to Iraq assuming its full role in the international community.
Although a large majority of voters voted in favour of the constitution, the results of the referendum show there are still substantial divisions to be overcome between Iraq’s ethnic communities.
This offers an important opportunity for Iraqis to forge a broader consensus on the future of their country, and will assist the creation of an inclusive political system.
It is imperative, therefore, that Iraq’s political, ethnic and religious leaders do all they can to address these issues.
Turning now to international assistance to Iraq’s process of political transition, the EU and the wider international community have already provided significant and valuable support.
I would like to mention an important step taken towards closer partnership between the EU and Iraq through the signature of the Joint EU-Iraq Political Declaration on 21&#160;September.
Many neighbouring countries and other regional players are making concerted efforts to engage constructively.
A preparatory meeting is due to take place in Cairo in a few days’ time, on 19&#160;November.
This meeting has the potential to lay the foundations for post-election international engagement and support for the new government.
The Council has strongly urged regional states, in particular Syria, to support the political process in Iraq.
Our first objective must be to continue to provide support for the election process.
I hope that it will again be possible for Members of this Parliament to show their support for Iraq’s aspiring parliamentarians in December.
The European Union is uniquely placed to provide this support and advice, and the EU stands ready to offer further support in this area.
Both the EU and Iraq hope to broaden and enhance their partnership further, as the political process goes forward, through the establishment of contractual political dialogue and other appropriate contractual relations.
The European Union, along with others in the international community are, and should continue to be – as in so many other developing and recovering countries – at the forefront of reconstruction and development.
But today Iraqis are also aware of substantial divisions that still need to be overcome in the country.
They are now facing two very critical challenges: on the one hand, ensuring inclusive electoral consultations in December and, on the other hand, after doing that, carrying out a comprehensive review of the constitution, which has to be more inclusive.
By providing another EUR&#160;20&#160;million in support, the Commission was the sole supporter of the United Nations and the UN-led constitutional support project.
But today we must accept the evidence that the security conditions do not allow it.
Viable solutions will have to be identified rapidly to ensure continued progress towards stability and democracy.
We shall also encourage the efforts of the Arab League and others in the region – such as Jordan, for instance – to promote inclusiveness and national reconciliation.
The political process and stability in Iraq is important for all of us and for its neighbours.
The recent events in Jordan very clearly remind us of the importance of succeeding in this inclusive approach, which is crucial for the whole political stabilisation of the region.
It is an unsustainable situation for any people in any country, and therefore also for the people of Iraq.
Their needs will continue to be at the core of our assistance to Iraq in 2006.
That was instrumental in mobilising international support from over 80&#160;countries and organisations for the Iraqi transitional government and for the institutions for the transitional period before the December elections.
We want to support the WTO accession request, initiate negotiations for an EU-Iraq agreement on trade and cooperation and progress on the opening of the Commission delegation in Baghdad in 2006.
The Union has much to offer beyond supporting the reconstruction process.
We shall meet their expectations. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, following your very interesting statements, I should like to make the following comments: The first comment concerns the Commissioner's last sentence.
The European Union does indeed have much more to offer beyond reconstruction and our problem is how we can translate this very interesting idea into specific policy.
The second comment concerns the vote on the constitution.
The fourth comment concerns a matter which, unfortunately, despite efforts, despite the democratisation process, is still outstanding.
However, I do wish to say this: there are a great many investigations, many of which have also been published, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in newspapers in your country, which raise the question of the continuing presence of foreign military forces in Iraq.
A short time before the start of the war in Iraq, General Morillon put the European Parliament on its guard by saying: ‘there is no such thing as a clean war’.
The formal democracy seeking to establish itself in Iraq and the relations with this country we are seeking to reconstruct come up against the following obvious fact: ‘there can be no democracy without truth’.
Saddam&#160;Hussein will be judged for the crimes he committed and, in all likelihood, for using chemical weapons against the Kurds in 1991.
The crime against humanity that the use of chemical weapons in Falluja would constitute, if proven, would fully warrant this move.
Yet after two years and eight months of war, the deaths of countless Iraqis and over 2&#160;000 coalition troops, it is clear that life in Iraq is little better than before.
Baghdad was statistically the world’s worst place to live even before the security situation deteriorated.
The European Union must demand a UN inquiry into the use of these banned weapons.
We must talk to the Arab League, the Iraqi authorities and other Middle Eastern governments with a view to establishing the terms and timing of our departure that will leave Iraq a more stable and secure place.
President Talabani has already made it clear that the Iraqi people are, and I quote, ‘looking forward to the day when we can say goodbye to the forces of the coalition’.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group, too, will be supporting the measures proposed by the Council and the Commission as a means of giving the Iraqi people a chance of a peaceful and democratic future.
I would, though, like to focus on something that Lord Bach said, to the effect that we Europeans want to take a leading role where democracy and human rights in Iraq are concerned.
It is a means of extermination that is contrary to international law, and it is means such as this that have been deployed.
Mr President, for years, Europe and America turned a blind eye to the dreadful dictatorship in Iraq because Iraq supplied oil.
The way in which the superpower’s views and interests have been imposed, by force and unilaterally, has caused part of the Shiite majority to turn their backs on the Western occupiers and seek recourse to an Iran-style theocratic dictatorship.
The federalism inherent in the new constitution protects disadvantaged areas against oppression and exploitation, and so 80% of the population stand to benefit.
A democracy in the new federal states can only succeed if the foreign military and the predominance of foreign companies withdraw from that country sooner rather than later.
Simply compare this three-day voting period with that country’s experience under the 35 years of the Ba'athist regime, with no elections whatsoever for the first 12 years and mock elections for the rest.
Indeed, if the destructive powers win, then our continent will also be in the firing line.
The next step, still under the aegis of the international community, should be for all the Arab states in the region to become increasingly involved in the whole process of democratisation and the fight against terrorism.
The extraordinarily successful turnout in the recent elections was an historic event, but we have a clear duty to continue to stand by the Iraqi people and the freely elected authorities that are administering the country.
We must provide practical help for all the young people who, with great courage and often at personal risk, want to fight to make Iraq a free, democratic and fair country at last. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the elections, the referendum and the new vote planned for 15&#160;December show that, after years of bloody dictatorship, a true democracy is emerging in Iraq.
The final goal has not yet been achieved, however, and much remains to be done to defeat Al Qaeda and its allies and to bring permanent stability to Iraq.
Their contribution is not only financial, as in the case of the democracy fund set up by the United Nations, but also political and military.
Many Europeans are taking part in the peace mission, and we should be grateful to them for what they have done and are still doing – including risking their own lives – in order to make a fundamental contribution to the resurrection of Iraq.
These people, soldiers and civilians alike, among whom are a great many Italians, have breathed life into thousands of projects to develop infrastructure in the fields of agriculture, transport, education and culture.
The attacks in Jordan are proof: Iraq now exports its terrorism.
President&#160;Bush wanted to fight the terrorists in Afghanistan so that he would not have to do so elsewhere, but today the terrorists already are elsewhere, and we wonder just how far they will go.
Europe thus has to face two challenges, namely the obtuseness of those who still claim that the Iraqi campaign has been a success, and the murderous determination of those who demonstrate every day that it has been a tragic failure.
Of course it was wrong of Blair and Bush to rely on and peddle false information to justify the invasion of Iraq, but the removal of Saddam was right and necessary.
It has little that is credible to contribute, for, when it mattered, the EU as an organisation and most EU Member States left the heavy lifting to others. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Iraqi people’s adoption of an interim Constitution is, as far as we are concerned, a major step forward.
The extensive participation of the people in the electoral process constitutes a reason for feeling optimistic about Iraq’s burgeoning democracy.
The development of the country clearly opens the door to a future partnership between Iraq and the European Union, particularly in the context of the EU’s Neighbourhood Policy and of peace in the Mashreq region and, in this regard, I thank Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner for the commitments made on behalf of the Commission.
There are a great number of issues at stake for this partnership: the democratic stabilisation of the country; the creation of a real, and no longer formal, rule of law; respect for fundamental freedoms and minority rights, and yet also the transition from a wartime to a peacetime economy and from a state-controlled to a market economy; the allocation of oil resources to diversification promoting agriculture, industry and services; and, finally, the reconstruction of the education and health care systems destroyed by so many years of authoritarian rule, embargoes and war.
Replacing the foreign forces with a peacekeeping presence under the aegis of the United Nations features among our objectives.
Curbing types of fundamentalism, combating the theory of the so-called clash of civilisations and building this entire Mashreq region upon the foundations of shared values are the goals that the European Union must be given. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, over 2&#160;000&#160;American soldiers have died and 15&#160;000 have been injured since military operations began against Saddam Hussein’s regime in Iraq.
Iraq Body Count, a British research group, has estimated on the basis of news agency and newspaper reports that over 30&#160;000&#160;Iraqis have been killed, with other estimates placing the number of victims at 100&#160;000.
Constitutional ratification is a major step towards the reconstruction of Iraq.
The constitutional referendum held in Iraq gives us further reason to hope that Islam and the concept of liberal democracy can be reconciled in the Middle East and Central Asia in the shape of a so-called Muslim democracy.
At the same time, however, the situation continues to be characterised by incessant terrorist attacks and the constant possibility that civil war could break out. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the international community welcomed the results of the referendum as an important stage in the course of the democratisation of Iraq.
However, I fear that everyone is shaping their own fictitious reality for Iraq.
The process of political reconstruction is leading to the creation of a loose state of at least three speeds.
The consequences for peace and stability are obvious.
Under these conditions elections are being planned to promote the new Iraqi parliament.
The Iraqi Government has requested that the EU provide election monitors and, whilst the full election observation mission would, as the Commissioner said, not be possible at the moment, the Council will look closely at what we can do to monitor and support the elections.
As far as human rights are concerned, the Council’s conclusions following the external relations meeting on 7&#160;November emphasised the importance of full respect for human rights in Iraq.
It noted with concern recent reports – including by the United Nations – of human rights violations by the Iraqi security forces and urged the Iraqi Government to address these allegations.
At the same time, the Council welcomed the improvement in the human rights situation since the fall of Saddam Hussein and condemned, as we all should, the atrocities of terrorists since then.
They turned out in their millions and in the most difficult of circumstances to approve a new Constitution that will guide their country and protect their rights.
If this momentum can be carried through to the December elections, then I believe Iraq could be on the verge of a major turning point and, with the election of a new government, Iraq enters a new phase.
The leaders of Iraq’s first constitutionally elected government will owe a huge debt of responsibility to its people.
They will place their trust and their future in the hands of those leaders and those leaders must respect that trust.
That means putting the nation’s interests above political and personal ambition or ethnic or religious interests.
What my colleague has just said is true.
We are therefore in this for the long run and will have to remain in Iraq for a long time in order to restore stability to that country.
There is good evidence that the 2003 European heatwave was influenced by global warming and that, as Members will recall, resulted in 26&#160;000 premature deaths, as well as costing USD&#160;13.5&#160;billion.
There was also consensus on a package of actions to combat climate change through a diverse range of avenues: energy efficiency, cleaner power generation, research and development, financing of cleaner energy, managing the impacts of climate change, as well as combating illegal logging.
The first meeting of that dialogue took place in London on 1&#160;November.
Mexico has offered to host a second meeting next year.
The Member States of the European Union were some of the first in the 1990s to recognise the dangers of global warming, the link to human activity and the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
So, in 2000 came the launch of the European climate change programme.
The energy services directive which we hope to agree by the end of the year is expected to provide a challenging first step, while the Commission’s Green Paper on energy efficiency published at the end of June should set the future blueprint for Europe’s energy efficiency strategy to 2020.
But despite all this work and effort, it is clear that emissions in the EU are not being reduced as quickly as we want and that urgent action is needed in all sectors, at both national and EU level.
Alongside this, the Commission and Council are developing an EU medium- and long-term strategy for tackling climate change and will report on progress so far to the December European Council.
The UK Presidency has set out to create a fresh momentum in the wider international process in which the EU plays such a crucial role.
That is why we put climate change on the agenda of our EU summits with China and India.
These two countries are particularly important partners for the EU in tackling climate change.
A key element of the partnership with China is a new initiative on near-zero emissions for coal, with carbon capture and storage, to address the vital challenge of tackling the increasing greenhouse gas emissions from coal.
We also agreed a new partnership with India.
In September, for the first time, Ministers from the Agriculture Council met Environment Ministers to discuss the impacts of climate change on agriculture in the EU.
All this activity is leading to the first meeting in December of the parties to the Kyoto Protocol in Montreal, where, under the Protocol, parties will begin discussions on the next period after 2012.
Let me make it quite clear that the EU and the UK remain absolutely committed both to the Kyoto Protocol itself and to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
As our Prime Minister Tony Blair said this week at the Lord Mayor’s banquet in London, the world needs a framework with the necessary targets, sensitively and intelligently applied over the right timeframe, that takes us beyond 2012.
The informal G8 process is also hugely important, but it is complementary.
It is not, and was never intended to be, a substitute for the Kyoto Protocol or for the United Nations Convention.
I hope the work we have done this year through both presidencies will in fact be built on at Montreal.
There were times when it looked as though that might never happen, but the EU continued doggedly to work for such an outcome, and now here we are, with the world’s only credible, binding international agreement on controlling greenhouse gas emissions.
The EU set out our negotiating position for Montreal at the October Environment Council.
Secondly, we want to agree a compliance mechanism to ensure that parties to the Protocol keep to its rules.
Finally, the Montreal Conference will look to the future and begin to discuss what happens when the first Kyoto commitment period ends in 2012.
There is no question but that we want to build on the Kyoto Protocol post-2012 and that we have to launch a discussion under Article 3(9) of that Protocol to consider future commitments of the EU along with other Kyoto parties.
The EU will clearly have to back our political ambition for the Montreal Conference of the Parties with real evidence that we are taking a lead in tackling climate change.
The Kyoto Protocol also stipulates that, by the end of 2005, parties must demonstrate their progress in meeting their Kyoto commitments.
This will be the ideal time for the EU to reaffirm our commitment to Kyoto, to meeting our emission reduction targets and to our obligations to assist developing countries.
We know that we need to do more and we all stand ready to do more.
Today’s debate here in Strasbourg will allow us to take stock of the current situation and offer us a further opportunity to demonstrate to the rest of the world that the EU takes this problem very seriously and is committed to delivering results.
We will not see a resolution to the problem at Montreal, nor under the current UK Presidency of the EU.
We need future presidencies – both of the EU and of the G8 – to carry on this work, keeping climate change high on their agendas and tackling the major threats it poses to our economies, our society and our environment.
Today's debate is particularly important in the run-up to the forthcoming meeting of the parties in Montreal, which will be marked by the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol and discussions about the system to combat climate change after 2012.
The 1990s were the hottest decade and nine of the ten hottest years in history fell between 1995 and 2004, with the hottest in 1998.
Nonetheless, rather than determining the extent to which hurricane Katrina or other weather phenomena were caused by human activity, it is more important that we draw lessons from these weather phenomena, so that we can win the battle against climate change.
I should like to refer in particular to Parliament's motion for a resolution on the communication entitled 'Winning the battle against global climate change' and I should like to thank in particular the rapporteur, Mr Wijkman, and the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, the Committee on Development and the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy for their valuable and specific proposals.
The motion for a resolution emphasises that the Community strategy for restricting climate change must be based on an approach which includes the following: building on key elements of the Kyoto Protocol, strong reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases in the European Union, the participation of all the main countries, such as the United States, the development of a strategic partnership with developing countries of crucial importance, vigorously promoting research and innovation and improving energy efficiency in the European Union.
I agree with and support this approach; the initiatives taken by the Commission this year in the field of climate change mostly go hand in hand with Parliament's proposal.
The new European programme on climate change will be a new framework for the policy which we exercise on climate change beyond 2012.
We address a series of new issues, such as aviation, and we also turn our attention to new technologies, such as carbon capture, which offer opportunities for taking financially efficient measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.
The first of these working parties is expected to start submitting its final reports during the first half of next year.
Similarly, I should like to refer to the Commission communication entitled 'Reducing the climate change impact of aviation'.
Of course, the Commission's initiatives are not confined solely to developing action within the European Union.
We take an active part in discussions with third countries and seek their opinion on the next steps which need to be taken during future negotiations on climate and on the creation of new structures to strengthen our political dialogue and technological cooperation.
Climate change and, in particular, its connections with energy and the secure supply of energy, are included in the priorities of our bilateral and multilateral contacts.
In this sector, we are cooperating closely with the British Presidency which, as Mrs Beckett said earlier, has placed climate change very high on the agenda for the G8 summit in Gleneagles and has constantly placed the issue of climate change on its list of priorities.
The results are encouraging.
The agreement on the partnership between the European Union and China on climate change and energy provides the political framework for closer cooperation and dialogue on these issues.
The main objective of the EU-China partnership is to develop advanced, almost zero-emission, carbon technology based on carbon capture and storage in biological formations.
The EU-India initiative on clean development and climate change makes provision for various initiatives in order to develop dialogue.
It emphasises cooperation on the development and evaluation of clean technologies, on the necessary adjustments to the heating of the planet and on the clean development mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol.
The UN Climate Change Conference will start in Montreal in Canada at the end of the month and will last two weeks.
Within this framework, it is important for us to demonstrate that the European Union is responding to its commitments.
Secondly, the intensive dialogue held over recent months has created important momentum, so that at the Montreal conference the debate will start at international level on the shape of the future international climate change strategy.
A small number of countries, headed by the United States, continue to be unwilling to participate in the dialogue on the future global strategy relating to climate change.
Through this dialogue, we need to find the solutions that will respond to the basic elements of the future climate strategy, as determined in the Commission's communication earlier this year.
These elements are reflected in Parliament's motion for a resolution: broader participation, coverage of all sectors and all gases, strengthening the development and use of new technologies, using means based on market mechanisms and finally, policies to adjust to the consequences of the increase in the heating of the planet.
To close, if there is to be a positive outcome from the dialogue, there must continue to be active political interest in the issue of climate change and the leading role of the European Union must be strengthened.
The motion for a resolution sends out a clear message that, in meeting this challenge, the Commission can always count on the support of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I wish to convey my special thanks to Mrs&#160;Beckett, who was present in this Chamber today.
A warmer climate is a less stable climate, entailing a threat to just about every sector of our society, a threat that must be designated as one of our security problems.
It is a security threat not only to the EU and its Member States but also, of course, to many poor countries in the tropics.
I believe that the necessary transformation of energy and transport systems in our part of the world should become an important lever in the Lisbon Process and should be able to create some impetus for creating new jobs and export opportunities.
Parliament’s report offers a list of proposed measures for the strategy after 2012.
We must do more in the short term so that we really do comply with the requirements of the Kyoto Protocol.
The situation of the developing countries is, of course, incredibly important.
For them, energy is first and foremost a question of growth and development, but they need not repeat our mistakes.
What has been introduced in this area through the Commission’s agreement with China is, of course, extremely constructive, but it must take place on a larger scale and become very much more significant.
It should be borne in mind that, every month, China puts two new coal-fired power stations into operation.
If the Americans were able to put a human being on the moon within ten years, we should, by means of huge efforts in the fields of research and development, be able to do something similar in terms of a breakthrough in new technologies.
This means that, for example, the Buildings Directive should be extended and made more ambitious.
The transport area is a very critical one.
We must invite other actors to participate in this process so that we in Europe do not become the only market.
The majority of the measures proposed in the report are aimed at companies and manufacturers.
The life-styles of all of us affect developments.
Perhaps that is impossible to implement in practice, but a first step should be to increase knowledge both of the carbon content of everything we buy and of the carbon emitted by our forms of transport.
We should ensure that, for example, our buildings and forms of transport go as easy on carbon as possible.
There is a lot to do in this area.
In conclusion, I want to wish both the Commission and the Council good luck in Montreal.
Our fellow Member is right to emphasise that, although global warming represents an environmental challenge, it is above all a challenge for development.
There are indeed grounds for fearing that, in this context, global warming will increase the divide between the developed world and countries whose development is lagging behind.
We recommend that the European Union develop a specific cooperation policy for developing countries.
You will have realised that, as far as the Committee on Development is concerned, the fight against climate change is therefore irrevocably tied to the fight against poverty and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
The report is also right to emphasise the mitigation efforts that still need to be made in order to achieve the Kyoto Protocol’s objectives.
For example, very little research has been done on the relationship between agriculture and climate change.
Furthermore, I believe that we must also make improvements in relation to quotas, the mathematical models for setting quotas; there are still many countries that are not doing so correctly, while others have found good solutions, such as the British.
Global warming does not mean actual warming in every single part of the world.
But the European Union still lacks the proper tools to encourage it.
The EU does not have any projects to improve urban public transport, and the growing number of cars in our cities means that urban life is becoming more and more chaotic and unhealthy.
Renewable energies are developing in some countries, but in other Member States only a few steps have been taken.
I think that semi-solutions such as carbon storage cannot be a solution for the future.
I have to say though that I do not share Mrs Beckett’s upbeat assessment of how the European Union is doing, despite the British Government’s pledge to make climate change a priority for its Presidency.
Progress on the ground has been very disappointing.
If the British Presidency is genuinely going to show international leadership on this subject, then it has to get its own house in order first.
Their findings made clear that this is a government which has delayed implementation of the directive on the energy performance of buildings, demanded an increase in the UK’s level of CO2 emissions permitted under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, failed to set binding targets for energy-demand reduction under the energy services directive, and failed to promote small-scale combined heat and power plants in line with the cogeneration directive.
This is why the Council should take particular notice of the European Parliament’s report on climate change, which has been expertly drafted by Anders Wijkman.
In particular, the report demands strong emission reductions at home, starting with 20% to 30% domestic reductions in the EU by 2020, increasing to between 60% and 80% by 2050.
And, in our amendment, the Greens are calling on the EU to ensure a formal mandate and timetable for negotiating future climate commitments with a time limit for achieving agreement at the end of 2008.
I want to end with two quick questions for the Council.
First, what is its view on contraction and convergence as a framework for future action?
An unbridled free-market economy without any restrictions to excess consumption and products leads to the increasing emission of greenhouse gases and thus exacerbates the problem.
Economic growth is like a sacred cow: it is sacrosanct, with each and every consumer product required to be available on the market across the world at the same time.
The nuclear energy lobby has seized the issue of climate change to put itself back on the map.
For example, I warmly support the inclusion of air traffic within the scope of the emission trade system, as well as the revision of the Directive on national emission ceilings, which dates back to 2001.
For years, we have been discussing drastic reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, but emission levels are still increasing year after year, not only worldwide, but also within the various Member States.
If we want to be taken seriously in Montreal, we should not only dare mention reductions, but also commit to really taking measures this time.
In Brazil this year, for example, while hurricanes thousands of miles away battered the United States and the Caribbean with water and wind, residents of a small fishing town deep in the Amazon region watched the lake on which they depend for food and transportation shrivel away in a year which saw the region’s worst drought in four decades: the result of warmer ocean water, which has also been blamed for one of the most violent hurricane seasons on record in the Gulf of Mexico.
The signing of the ratification protocol for Kyoto by some of the major players has been a much-welcomed event.
However, major players now need to be more proactive in convincing countries with the highest levels of pollution: the United States and developing countries.
I encourage other Member States to follow suit.
What is a fact, and what surprises many people, is that because of the level of greenhouse gases already in the atmosphere, we are already committed to a significant amount of global warming and rising sea levels.
If we became a perfect pupil now in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, we would still suffer from past pollution, but the longer we wait to tackle greenhouse gas emissions in a serious manner, the more entrenched the commitment is.
Greenpeace has warned that this year’s experience could be a sign of things to come if practices such as deforestation and emissions of heat-trapping gases into the atmosphere do not stop.
Climate change policies thus need to be designed to contribute to economic growth in the developing countries.
As I travel to Montreal next month as part of the European delegation, I look forward to seeing the global players face the reality of this year and work together as partners in tackling this extremely important global problem. &#160;&#160; Europe was among the first regions in the world to record the climatic changes that are the consequence of dangerous global climatic shifts.
There is no doubt that these changes spring directly from human activity, mainly in the developed countries that are mostly responsible for high emissions of greenhouse gases.
Joint action by the biggest polluters – China, the United States, the European Union and India – in the fight against climatic changes is essential.
What we need is therefore innovation in respect of existing technologies and the development of more environmentally friendly sources of power.
It is necessary to use more solar, water and wind power, and to boost research into these new forms of energy.
In Europe, we are witnessing the exodus of our young scientists to the United States, because Europe does not offer them adequate resources for carrying out effective research to a high standard in this area.
Global warming may increase the incidence of infectious diseases transmitted by arthropods, such as mosquitoes spreading malaria or certain viral inflammations of the brain. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by making the observation that the Council Presidency left us waiting some 10 to 15 minutes for the beginning of this debate.
I wish to express my gratitude to Mr Wijkman for his dedication and hard work.
In Germany, there has been since Monday an agreement on a new Great Coalition, aspects of which agreement have come in for justified criticism: there are some compromises that not everyone can go along with.
Much in the coalition agreement is identical with what the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has proposed in the Wijkman report, and that is an encouragement to the Commission to redouble its commitment to pursuing its objectives in such areas as air travel.
Where renewable energies are concerned, we – not only in the German Great Coalition but also in the amendments we have tabled to the Wijkman report – want a new priority to be given to heating, an area in which, for little expense, we can save a great deal of CO2, and it is for that reason that the Commission wanted to table a proposal for a directive on the subject.
I agree with Mrs Gutiérrez that nuclear energy is indispensable if we are to solve the climate problem.
We certainly have something to celebrate in Montreal.
The fact is that we need a step change in the way we debate climate change, particularly among the public.
In the case of Scotland, this is because the United Kingdom controls energy policy and remains wedded to a nuclear agenda, which I believe offers no long-term solution.
The Commission can play its part by prioritising renewable energy in the FP7 Programmes. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the greenhouse effect is the greatest problem that we have to face, because it involves a structural change in the conditions needed for life.
Any idea of resorting to nuclear energy – which is a finite and extremely hazardous source that entails unsolvable problems such as nuclear waste, and is not democratic – to meet this target and this need would be utterly unacceptable. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I find it hard to lend my approval to a report which contains so few constructive suggestions regarding practical steps that can be taken to prevent climate change, and which also includes no financial analysis.
The latter commits individual governments and companies to a policy of implementing programmes aimed at reducing greenhouse gases and at putting in place emissions trading systems and energy saving regulations.
The main responsibility for environmental destruction lies with the industrialised countries.
Above and beyond the measures to which previous speakers have already referred, equal importance should therefore be attached to changing people’s mindsets and to ensuring that they develop as individuals.
This has rightly been described as the move towards a culture of satisfaction, and it reverses the trend towards possession at any price and the unchecked accumulation of goods. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, although global warming today appears to be an obvious fact, it is still a good idea to verify the analyses that attribute it almost exclusively to greenhouse gases, something that certain scientists dispute on the grounds that there might be other causes.
As the Wijkman report proposes, alternative energy sources must be encouraged, particularly solar and geothermal energy.
Such heavy restrictions cannot, however, be imposed on European countries alone, when China, the United States and a good many other countries are hugely increasing their CO2 emissions.
As for the storage of carbon dioxide, allow me to recommend a natural, efficient and beneficial method, namely reforestation, all the more so because systematic reforestation could be the subject of a wide-ranging international cooperation programme. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the debate is just about over and the scientific jury is largely agreed on the impact of greenhouse gases on our climate.
At the COP 11/MOP 1 meeting in Montreal next month, the focus will be on post-Kyoto and on what happens beyond 2012.
Let us put our money where our mouth is, look at FP7 and invest in this area. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;Wijkman’s report deserves our full attention.
The paths laid out are realistic, so it is up to us to adhere to them as rigorously as possible by relying on all the partners involved in implementing the report, from the Member States to the people, and by changing our production and consumption methods.
If there is, however, one crucial area in which we must have a far greater involvement by providing ourselves with financial resources equal to what is at stake, it is that of research policy, for there can be no new technologies or innovations without research.
Our researchers’ grey matter constitutes a resource for the European Union that we must optimise in order to rise to the challenge of sustainable development and climate change, without overlooking, of course, our responsibility towards the poorest countries.
Thus, in the future, we will need to have a research budget that is equal to our ambitions. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it was gratifying to hear Commissioner Dimas express his support at the Beijing International Energy Conference the other day for Parliament’s ambition of having 25% renewable energy by 2020, just as it was also gratifying to hear the Commissioner say that renewable energy is crucial to overcoming problems such as climate change and poverty and promoting general economic development.
If we are to create a market for renewable energy, the costs of today’s unsustainable dependence on fossil-based energy sources must, however, be clearly shown.
My second question is about the proportion of renewable energy sources.
This morning I was glad to hear the Commission and the Council stress the importance of the next phase, because the real challenge is to set ambitious targets for the post-2012 period and to get all the major world actors involved.
I also want to support the amendments made by my colleagues in the GUE/NGL Group, particularly the assertion that the promotion of an unbridled free market has led to excess consumption, which in turn leads to increased emissions of greenhouse gases. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wanted us to talk about a very serious issue.
Whatever we do in Europe, we will not achieve results.
We all need to understand that the threat from Bin Laden and terrorism is much smaller than the environmental threat hanging over the Americans.
Consequently, if we want to achieve results, we need to bring the Americans into the rules. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Dimas, Mrs&#160;Beckett, only a few years ago, when climate change was being discussed, some people would smile dubiously.
Europe and the world have held a great many debates, but acts are not enough.
Biofuels, solar energy, wind energy, hydroelectric energy, hydrogen, energy efficiency efforts: these technologies exist.
The European Union must act here and now in order to convince people, in order to serve as an example and in order to form new partnerships with the countries of the South.
Let us move on to actions. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank Mr&#160;Wijkman for a balanced report on an important issue.
Instead, we must conduct an environmental policy compatible with a consistent and credible energy policy, in which case we must also look at the basis of our energy supply.
Oil and gas are not the way of the future, yet we see how it is, above all, the use of oil and gas that increases when nuclear power is phased out, the consequence being growing carbon dioxide emissions.
With the present energy mix, nuclear power production in Europe accounts for 50% of carbon dioxide emissions and leads to reduced carbon dioxide emissions equivalent to those from private cars.
That being the case, nuclear power cannot be dismissed.
Nuclear power will not solve our environmental problems, but those problems cannot be solved and the Kyoto objectives achieved by ignoring nuclear power.
It is therefore an important task for this Parliament and also for the Member States to conduct a credible energy policy not aimed at phasing out nuclear power and replacing it by oil and gas.
Instead, we should ensure that nuclear power can play a significant role in the balanced energy policy that is needed. &#160;&#160; I would like to welcome Mr Anders Wijkman and others who share the belief that saving the planet is our own concern, not somebody else’s.
The European Union must exercise all the influence it can to urge countries that still have not joined the Kyoto Protocol, even the most powerful ones, to do so.
The present report rightly offers to make the EU an even more prominent leader in terms of the use of renewable energy sources.
I also express my full support of the proposal with respect to increasing the awareness of EU citizens and involving them in environmental preservation.
Even more important is the lifestyle.
Each citizen of the EU should realise that living with the least possible pollution and tampering with the climate of the planet is not only noble and beautiful, but also a worthwhile undertaking. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, at the end of this month and the beginning of the next, the European Parliament will once again present its position on climate change at a UN conference.
Before this position is submitted to the international community for debate, it is crucial to ensure that it reflects the best interests of all EU Member States.
As Mrs&#160;Grossetête and Mr&#160;Hökmark rightly noted, the role of nuclear energy should also be given due consideration.
Greenhouse gas emissions are still on the increase in many Member States.
Adopting this integrated approach would be a more effective and less expensive way of reducing CO2 emissions.
Although the shift from a fossil fuel-based economy presents us with an historic business opportunity, it should not be forgotten that many countries with abundant renewable energy resources do not currently have the technologies needed to harness these latter.
This is particularly true in the case of developing countries.
The issue of energy subsidies is therefore very relevant to negotiations on reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Energy-saving and low-emission technologies are an effective tool in the fight against environmental pollution, but they should not be combined with the reduction in fossil fuel subsidies proposed by the rapporteur as a for the use of modern environmental protection solutions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, as a great Indian leader once said, the earth does not belong to us, we borrowed it from our children.
Mr Wijkman’s report is a step in the right direction.
Actions speak louder than words and, in accordance with the Lisbon Strategy, new technology must be adopted, and the international community must strive to honour the obligations of the Kyoto Convention.
Some solutions, however, are expected to come out of it.
Our children and future generations expect nothing less. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Beckett, I am glad that the Council Presidency is following our debate, and, before I say anything else, I would like to thank my good friend Mr&#160;Wijkman for the very ambitious report that he has put together on this subject.
It is also important, though, that long-term strategies should be in place to enable us to respond, and in order to give us the security to plan ahead.
It quite simply has to be brought home to business and industry where this road leads and what options will be available to them in the future.
Let us also bear in mind the fact that the Community is currently responsible for only 14% of CO2 emissions, and so it is vitally important that not only the developing countries, but also, of course the USA – which is the principal source of emissions – should be brought on board.
The point in the report that needs to be underlined several times over is the one that says: ‘we need a global strategy’.
I have to say that I am not in agreement with my colleagues as regards nuclear energy, which I do not regard as an alternative to those technologies that produce CO2, since its long-term effects are too negative.
I have to say, following my visit to the United Kingdom last week, that I find it very irritating that Tony Blair and others are steering the climate change debate towards the idea that climate protection targets might be achieved by the greater use of nuclear power, which would produce energy that is alleged to be cleaner.
It has also been marked by a strong emphasis from many speakers on renewable resources, with various examples of this being cited, and also by strong differences of opinion over nuclear power.
I would say to the last speaker, Mrs Harms, that if the only aspect of the climate change debate she heard in the UK was that of nuclear power, then she must have moved in very restricted circles, because there is a great deal being discussed in the UK, which has not actually made a fresh commitment to nuclear power, despite a commitment to discussing it.
In fact, energy efficiency is top of the UK’s list of policies for tackling climate change, just as she would wish.
Some speakers emphasised the damage caused by air pollution by the same gases that are contributing to climate change, while others emphasised that, as we tackle climate change, we will derive other potential health benefits from the reduction in the use of those gases.
As she may know, in countries such as New Zealand, livestock are the source of almost all greenhouse gas emissions, making this a particularly difficult problem to solve.
Strong emphasis has been placed on the role of the many other countries involved and on the need for a global dialogue – with which the Council wholeheartedly agrees – and there is clear agreement both that the EU should continue to take the lead internationally and that we should continue to place strong emphasis on delivering on our own programmes.
Mrs Doyle and Mr Hökmark both suggested that the EU is unlikely to meet its Kyoto targets.
However, that is a report that we will be publishing as we approach Montreal, and it certainly remains the case that we must continue to maintain and indeed step up our own activity.
That brings me to the comments by both Mrs Lucas and Mr Smith, who quite rightly praised the ambition of the Wijkman report in setting a target of a 60% reduction in emissions by 2050, without apparently being aware that this is the target the UK Government set in its own Energy White Paper in 2003.
However, I must put it firmly on the record for her and on behalf of this Council that it is a waste of everybody’s time to demand that the EU deliver a formal mandate and a formal timetable in Montreal.
We cannot just march into Montreal and dictate to the rest of the world how they should conduct themselves and go about their business, not least when we are talking to some of the poorest and most vulnerable countries in the world whose priority, quite rightly, is development and feeding their populations.
If we are able to kindle a dialogue and spark a process in Montreal, it will be a real and substantial achievement, just as it was a real and substantial achievement to elicit the language and secure the programme of action agreed at Gleneagles.
I believe that the action taken and the series of new initiatives put forward by the Commission since the adoption of its communication in February clearly demonstrate its determination to act in this area.
Targets have proven to be a very useful tool in environmental policy making.
They are particularly useful for industry and the private sector when they have to take long-term investment decisions.
Targets will therefore remain a core element of any future climate change architecture.
As you will be aware, the European Council of last March set down a pathway target of 15% to 30% of emissions reductions by 2020.
However, the Commission believes that the time has not yet come to set concrete targets for developed countries in Montreal in December.
Mr&#160;Seeber has underlined that any future climate change regime will have to build on broad participation on all major emitters and that is of key importance if our cooperation is to be truly efficient.
The Commission and Member States are working hard to promote deeper dialogue with the United States and developing countries.
We have engaged in policy dialogue with the United States administration within the United Nations Framework Agreement on Climate Change and within other fora and meetings, such as the Joint Climate Change Science and Technology Workshop.
That covers concrete topics such as renewable energy, energy efficiency and carbon sequestration.
The United States claims that is has a different approach to fighting climate change, based mainly on the research and development of new technologies.
The difference between their approach and our approach is that they have seen an approximate 15% increase in carbon dioxide emissions while the European Union of 25 has seen a considerable reduction compared with 1990 levels, and the 15 member countries under the Kyoto regime obligations are 1.7% under the 1990 level.
This is the difference between the two approaches.
China and other developing countries have contributed to the formation of the greenhouse phenomenon by a much smaller percentage than the developed countries, and per capita emissions in China are currently less than one tenth of the levels in the developed world, so we should follow that example.
Where capita income is much lower and development needs greater we have to follow what the United Nations Convention wisely prescribes as a common but differentiated policy.
The Commission is already providing funding and welcomes Canada's intention to prepare a five-year work programme on adaptation at the Conference in Montreal.
In addition, the European Union is the major contributor to the 2001 Bonn Political Declaration which pledges USD&#160;410&#160;million per year in climate change funding for developing countries, starting this year.
The European Union is still the main contributor of funds to the executive board.
There have been certain concerns about bilateral cooperation outside the United Nations context, and especially in the Asia-Pacific Partnership.
Let me stress that this can in no way be viewed as an alternative to the United Nations process.
However, this Partnership can support our efforts under the Climate Change Convention and the Kyoto Protocol through closer bilateral cooperation that includes both a stronger political dialogue and a focus on technology.
This translates into very concrete actions: we have recently held two workshops in India and China on the Clean Development Mechanism and market-based mechanisms.
In relation to China, we also see an important focus on the development and demonstration of near-zero emissions power generation, and I agree with Mrs&#160;Beckett that carbon capture and storage is one of the means of tackling the problem of climate change.
These partnerships will have the positive and immediate effect of supporting the discussions on a multilateral climate change regime post-2012.
This implies that we should make greater emission cuts, allowing us to reach the Kyoto target and make further progress for the period after 2012.
It is important to know that, for the European Union of 25, the result with the existing measures will be -7%.
I fully agree that this is a vital issue and that is why, in 2006, the Commission will review the agreement with the car industry in order to assess the possibility of reaching the Community objective of 120 g/km by a certain point, having made sure, of course, that we reach the target, voluntarily agreed with the car industry in Europe, Japan and Korea, of 140 mg.
The Commission has already made a proposal with regard to aviation, as you know.
On renewable energy, the Commission will put forward, in the weeks to come, a new report assessing a target for renewable energy by 2020.
Regarding nuclear energy and the remarks made by Mr Hökmark, some Member States expect nuclear energy to be a part of their future energy.
We had an extremely interesting meeting in London, organised by Mrs Beckett and the UK Presidency, on climate change and agriculture and very important conclusions were reached there.
The Commission will be putting forward a plan in support of biofuels.
With your continued support, we are determined to reassert the European Union's leadership in this key challenge for mankind.
The vote will take place today at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; – The next item is voting time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report on Iraq, on which we are currently engaged in voting, is perhaps one that would otherwise appear among the also-rans, but it is important in that in it, Parliament, the Council and the Commission together are demonstrating that the European institutions are capable of responding quickly and in the public interest.
While every moment in this House is an important one, I do believe that we – that is, the services and we Members – should all ensure that such important legislative reports, the adoption of which is in the public interest, are debated at better hours of the day, so as to send a clear message to the outside world. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise on a point of order under Rule&#160;132 about Commission Question Time last night.
That was started by Commissioner Mandelson, who then overran, so that in the end there was only the opportunity for Commissioner Špidla to answer two questions.
I should like to ask you to send a further letter, with much more ferocity, saying that what we look for as Members are short answers, not long rambling speeches. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to raise the fact that this House is set to debate the World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis only next month.
It is a UN summit on the freedom of information.
European Union delegations are in Tunis right now.
It appears that the previous adoption of Amendment 5 makes this amendment superfluous.
Now that this House has voted by a large majority to make out, without any money behind it, a cheque for EUR&#160;400 million, which may well, without reliable calculations, find its way into the coffers of the Italian energy conglomerates, I now urge you to vote against my report.
I regard that decision that this House has taken today as utterly irresponsible.
I am sorry to have to say this, but I do believe that the House is extremely ill-advised if a majority in it can vote to accept these false promises. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to add ‘eutrophication’ – probably the most serious ecological problem in the Baltic Sea – to the text distributed to you.
We support the Commission’s proposal that the Member States gather security information with a view to passing it on to the Commission and other Member States, but we object to Parliament’s proposal to introduce instead a Community list and, in that way, centralise the administration of the data. &#160;&#160; .
I wish to congratulate Mrs De Veyrac on her important and timely report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the information of air transport passengers on the identity of the operating carrier and on communication of safety information by Member States.
The blacklist should be published not only by the Commission but also by each Member State, ticket sellers, national civil aviation authorities and airports in Member States, in order to ensure that passengers are kept properly informed and that the objectives of this proposal are properly met. &#160;&#160; .
This is a very timely proposal initially in reaction to concerns raised after the Sharm-el-Sheikh air accident (which killed 148 people) and after the spate of air disasters in August this year.
This proposal takes us in that direction. &#160;&#160; .
I believe it is equally vital that the blacklist should also cover aircraft chartered from companies in non-EU countries and Member States should provide the European Commission with a list of carriers banned from their airspace.
This task forms part of a broader strategy aimed at enhancing the safety of the booming air transport sector.
In Europe alone, the number of air passengers increased by an average 5.5% per year between 1990 and 2003.
This work must be done at European level, in collaboration with the Member States, in order to lay down common inspection criteria.
The Slovak Government, whose representatives made the difficult decision on decommissioning in the accession negotiations, would have had some tough explaining to do if the vote in the European Parliament had turned out differently.
I would therefore like to thank all of my colleagues in the European Parliament, who saw that the Slovak problem was a European problem, and who voted to provide financial assistance for the decommissioning of the Bohunice installation. &#160;&#160; I am pleased with the result of the vote on financial support for the decommissioning of the Bohunice V1 plant.
The reason for this is as follows: In the 1990s, the Bohunice V1 installation underwent full-scale reconstruction under the watchful eye of an international agency, at a cost of nearly EUR 300 million.
The plant is therefore clearly being decommissioned before time, as it is now capable of safely producing electricity at least until 2015.
The 1999 decision was political, dictated not by good sense but by biased reasoning.
Fortunately, the plenary session at least agreed on a contribution of 400 million, but this represents only one-third of the amount needed.
I thank everybody for their support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, record oil and petrol prices are now making us aware, in a very uncomfortable way, of the likelihood of a new energy crisis.
Naturally, nuclear power plants must be decommissioned in the light of environmental and security considerations. &#160;&#160; .
Slovakia has committed to the closure of Units 1 and 2 of the plant by 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2008 respectively.
When safety becomes an issue, these plants must be closed down and decommissioned.
Among the issues to which priority should be given are the environment, safety where nuclear power is concerned and the fight against international crime.
We support the proposal according to which the EU should develop its cooperation with regional organisations, including the Nordic Council.
These changes are widely acknowledged to have been a great success, but, having changed its neighbours from one day to the next, with all that that entails for a number of policy areas, the EU faces fresh challenges.
The EU already has extensive experience of regional policies adapted to specific geographical characteristics, albeit not always with the desired success.
To my mind, policy should not simply be applied with a broad brush, but should be adapted to different situations and specific characteristics. &#160;&#160; .
This has entailed a great many new challenges, which is why actions and projects like the Northern Dimension of the European Union are crucial in this context.
The region could therefore play a crucial role in implementing a project of special value, namely close and multifaceted cooperation between the EU and Russia.
The Northern Dimension will have a favourable impact on economic cooperation and infrastructure building, and the stepping up of cooperation in the field of home affairs and justice is likely to increase security where cross-border issues are concerned.
In view of this fact, cooperation should therefore be promoted in the spheres of environmental protection and sustainable development.
The Baltic or North European gas pipeline project has been the source of much controversy, and it remains a key issue to be resolved.
I welcome the guidelines contained in the Common Resolution, although I feel priority should be given to ensuring that the market in this field can function freely.
Supporting technological development must not mean jeopardising the natural freedom required by markets in general, and by this market in particular. &#160;&#160; .
Although I support this report, there needs to be parity when such a switchover takes place.
Citizens need to be informed and prepared. &#160;&#160; .
The way we voted on this report took account of the Czech perspective on these proposals, in light of the pressure that they were under to decommission the nuclear power plants.
In the new accession countries faced with these decommissioning requirements, as in the case before us, we feel it is right that they should receive the support they need to carry this out in the proper manner, from the point of view of human and environmental safety. &#160;&#160; .
This report is a step in the right direction towards improving financial and technical aspects of decommissioning nuclear power plants.
Safety must be the number one priority, and the unsatisfactory state of preparations for decommissioning in most EU member states justifies the view that no new nuclear power plans should be built. &#160;&#160; .
I voted for this report.
Decommissioning is an important issues as there are some 50-60 nuclear power plants in the EU that will be decommissioned by 2025.
It goes without saying that nuclear power plants need to be shut down safely to protect people and the environment.
This report makes a contribution to that goal. &#160;&#160; .
No more must the EU promote nuclear power, as the Euratom Treaty specifies that it must.
When the EU, exceptionally, calls for the decommissioning of nuclear power station in order to protect human life and the environment, as it did in the case of the Slovak Bohunice V1 reactor, such demands are deserving of support, even if the distinction drawn by the Commission between the ‘good’ reactors in the West and the ‘dangerous’ ones in Eastern Europe is an untenable one.
The support is in line with undertakings given at the time of Slovakia’s accession to the EU.
Were it not for support from the EU, there would be cause for concern that the reactors at Bohunice V1 would continue in operation, which would entail serious security risks.
Without EU funding, it might well also not be possible to ensure that decommissioning measures would be taken promptly in order to protect human life and the environment.
I welcome the principles put forward in the report, not only because I feel that all possible safety measures should be taken when it comes to nuclear power, but also because, to my mind, adequate financial resources must be made available to cover such measures during the useful lifetime of these plants.
I would note that it is crucial, whenever we talk about nuclear matters, to provide for the necessary environmental safety and protection measures throughout the useful lifetime of a nuclear power plant.
In this context, the proposed measures aimed at the safe, effective and environmentally-friendly decommissioning of such plants should be included. &#160;&#160; .
I was pleased to back my group colleagues in supporting this important report as it underlines concerns about the long term viability of the nuclear industry when it comes to decommissioning.
With so many alternative technologies available, I believe that we must invest in renewables, which will leave no ecological legacy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make a statement of vote in respect of the Wijkman report, which, in essence, I very much welcome.
It is unfortunate that the adoption of Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca’s amendment means that the derogation for nuclear energy is now deleted.
It is for that reason that I, along with my colleagues as a whole, have voted against the report.
We have nothing against it as such, but it could have been more clear in coming to the conclusion that nuclear energy is no alternative. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that Mr&#160;Wijkman’s report – and I hope he will not hold this against me – is wrong, starting with its very title.
One need only look at items 2 and 3 after recital M, which propose limiting the average temperature increase of the planet to two degrees above pre-industrial levels, even though there are no reliable records or data for that time.
It would appear that the targets that have been set are rather too ambitious, given that little is known regarding the actual consequences of human interference in climate change, which is even more problematic while the USA remains outside the Kyoto Protocol.
The Wijkman report has a lot going for it.
For example, it includes proposals for EU-wide speed limits, traffic charges and tax incentives and for the development of rail transport and public transport in general.
We are also critical of EU initiatives to make people aware of the ways in which unrestrained consumption and production affect the climate.
This is a dimension that can, of course, be dealt with at national level.
As I made clear in my speech in today’s plenary session, this is a matter of urgency.
We must act immediately in order to respond to this threat of climate change, which is undoubtedly one of the most serious threats in the history of humankind.
I support the actions recommended in this report – while rejecting the idea of ecotaxes – and the political resoluteness displayed.
Mr&#160;Wijkman’s excellent report puts forward a number of measures to help solve the problem of climate change around the world.
The Conference of Parties is due to take place in Montreal, where it is hoped that European leaders will submit proposals for future arrangements on climate change.
These arrangements must be based on shared, but different responsibilities aimed at the continued reduction of emissions and the participation of more countries in these efforts.
The March&#160;2005 European Council stressed the need for developed countries to reduce emissions by 15 to 30% by 2020.
The rapporteur is proposing that longer-term targets be set to reduce emissions by 60 to 80% by 2050.
Lastly, a strategy must be developed to turn Europe into the most energy-efficient economy in the world.
The EU has reduced its emissions by 3% below the 1990 level but more has to be done to reach the 8% target agreed in the Kyoto Protocol.
I support many of the guidelines on environmental policy that Europe has been pursuing, reflected in both the report and the Commission communication.
Secondly, developed societies are not prepared to accept a lower standard of living, and nor should this be our policy or our blueprint.
I take this as full support for all the policies which have been followed both by the UK Presidency and by the United Kingdom on aspects like the budget, which I shall come to in a moment.
This is the 48th time that a British Government minister has appeared before Parliament since the beginning of the UK’s Presidency of the European Union and, with six weeks to go, I am happy to tell you there are still many more ministers on the way.
Much of this is now familiar to you, but what was achieved three weeks ago was important.
With 20&#160;million people unemployed across Europe and youth employment running at 18%, the main task for all of us who believe in the social model for Europe is to get Europe back to work and to give our citizens the tools to compete in the global market.
The Hampton Court summit identified six key areas, backed up by a range of specific policies, in which the joint efforts of Member States and of the Commission can bolster Europe’s economic prosperity and collective security.
Second, there is investment in our universities.
We are lagging behind the United States and, in some key respects, China and India as well.
The third is facing up to demographic change within the European Union.
The EU currently has four people of working age for every elderly citizen, but over the coming decades this will fall from a ratio of four to one to just two to one.
At the informal summit EU leaders therefore agreed that we had to examine in much more detail the relationship between legal migration and the EU’s future economic needs.
The summit recognised that the solution requires action on a number of tracks.
We have to diversify our sources of energy and approach our current major energy suppliers in a more coherent manner.
We have to use our market capacity and power as users with those who are the suppliers.
We also have to pursue energy efficiency and clean technologies and develop within Europe a much more genuinely open energy market.
It is open in some countries, but not in all countries.
On data retention this Parliament has an opportunity to join in the EU’s collective responsibility to shape legislation that will increase the security of our citizens and bring criminals to justice.
There is a counter-terrorism strategy that will indicate how we deal with radicalisation, how we protect our infrastructure and how we ensure better exchange of information.
Finally, the summit agreed that Javier Solana, working with the Presidency, should take forward work on common foreign and security policy aspects of defence and security.
However, now that we have broad agreement on the direction of a modern Europe, we have to get the right budget deal to deliver these economic and social priorities.
In June, five Member States rejected the proposed budget; next month we will need all 25 to agree.
First, we have to chart a new direction for the European Union budget to ensure that it can respond to the challenges of the 21st century.
Failure to sign off the European Union’s accounts for the eleventh successive year – which is very poor – affects the climate of debate and of opinion about the whole of the European Union in every single Member State.
Second, we have to amend the structure of spending from 1&#160;January 2007 from that which was proposed in the last negotiating box in June, notably to take account of recent discussions by Member States of the proposals by Commission President Barroso, which he made on 20&#160;October.
Third, the consequences of any proposed changes to the own-resources decision – in other words to the amount which is paid by Member States to the EU’s budget – must be seen to be fair and balanced in all Member States.
So far, I have talked about Europe’s response to the challenges of globalisation mainly in terms of what we will do – what policies we adopt and what budget we should agree.
However, globalisation also poses a challenge to Europe in terms not just of what we do but how we do things.
As I have indicated, there is a growing gap between the politics of Europe and the people of Europe.
The ‘Sharing Power in Europe’ conference will look at how regional and national parliaments can work more effectively with European institutions, including the European Parliament, and how we can get the right balance between action at the regional, national and European levels to deliver the best results for our citizens.
I should like here to express great appreciation to Jan Peter Balkenende, the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, for first proposing that such a conference be held – he did so at the June European Council – and to our colleague, Bernard Bot, the Foreign Minister of the Netherlands, who has helped the British Presidency to take this idea forward and to host the conference tomorrow.
Too often – it is true of all parliaments and unions but it is particularly true of the European Union – the method has been seen as the same as the outcome.
Businesses, non-governmental organisations and Member States want new European rules, for example, to fight unfair competition, to protect the environment or to improve our legal systems.
Thanks to the efforts of the Commission under President Barroso, there are many positive signs now.
For example, the Commission has listened to what businesses and people want and has proposed a lighter regulatory touch in financial services.
This will help promote a globally competitive European financial sector.
Hence the decision to get rid of a 1968 directive which regulated the number and the size of knots in wood.
Equally, none of us want to see, in a globalised world in which barriers have come down, Europe’s chemical industry brought to its knees so that the regulation, which is a very fine one, ends up regulating an industry that has disappeared, to be replaced by industries across the world in China, India and elsewhere, where the regulation is far less good than it is today.
That is the dilemma facing Parliament, as it faces all our peoples.
The proposed changes to the Working Time Directive are a good example of well-meaning legislation that will not achieve what those changes are set out to do, and where method and outcome have become grievously confused.
My Prime Minister said recently that we hoped to resolve the outstanding issues on this directive during our Presidency, and that remains our goal.
The United Kingdom has one of the best health and safety records in the whole of the European Union.
Since you ask, we are second best in terms of days lost through injury and, I believe, third best in terms of deaths at work.
Some European partners have rightly, I believe, expressed great concern that there are other Member States in which working time limits are being applied per contract and not per worker.
It does not make sense from a health and safety point of view.
We have to find ways to implement and enforce the directive which match the needs of all labour markets.
The blunt truth about the directive is that in seeking to reset European limits and standards, we risk infringing individual workers’ freedom to work the hours they choose.
It is vital that workers feel safe and appropriately protected in the workplace.
When the United Kingdom took over the Presidency of the European Union we also inherited the need to conduct a wide debate on the future of Europe.
The process of constructing a modern, confident Europe will be an even longer one.
I am particularly proud of the role played by the Commission in the success of this Summit.
Our debates at Hampton Court resulted in a consensus based on a fundamental idea and on five key areas.
The fundamental idea is as follows: in order to preserve our values, we have to modernise our policies.
The five key areas are, briefly: first, a consensus on the analysis and the nature of the challenges confronting us, which follows on from the contribution made by the Commission – and, while we are on this subject, Mr&#160;Straw, I thank you for what you said about the quality of our document.
All the Member States have applied themselves to this task, and the Commission will draft a report on the national programmes developed in order to implement the Lisbon conclusions at the very beginning of next year.
Fifthly, new initiatives with a view to examining how our external action can be enhanced, so that we can respond more effectively to globalisation and to the new security threats that do not stop at national borders.
We must now move on with our work.
I hope that we will be able to do so in close cooperation with Parliament and with the current and forthcoming Presidencies of the Council.
In order to sustain the momentum for promoting long-term growth and employment, the Commission proposes to give new impetus to research and development and to present ways of reorganising the education systems in Europe and universities.
We will report back to the Council and to the European Parliament on these matters before the spring European Council.
Searching for the resources to better tackle the demographic challenge: as from the beginning of next year, we will present the results of the consultation launched at the beginning of the year by issuing a Green Paper on demographics.
Establishing a coherent energy policy: next year we will present a strategy for Europe.
Several proposals have already been submitted to Parliament and, before the end of the year, a document should enable us to enhance our thoughts and actions concerning legal and illegal immigration.
Finally, security confronts us with a two-fold challenge.
On that point too, important proposals by the Commission are on the table, and a strategy for combating terrorism is in the process of being completed.
Yet, we also need to make greater efforts to ensure that the European Union fully takes its place in the debate on the responses to be provided in relation to globalisation.
It is clear that we can do more to promote the coherence of our external action, not only in relation to foreign policy and common defence, but also in relation to the various internal policy instruments with an external dimension, as well as in areas in which the Commission has a special role to play, such as development aid, international trade and the neighbourhood policy, for instance.
Europe has the scale and the range of policies to maximise the benefits of globalisation for its citizens and to minimise the threats.
It is Europe that can provide answers to the challenges of more expensive and scarcer energy.
It is also Europe which will help manage the border crossing in Gaza, a very important recent development.
It means that Europe should do less in some areas and should make the lives of our citizens and businesses easier.
Nevertheless, at the same time, there are areas where we have to do more, not less.
It is the responsibility of all of us European leaders – at Council level, Parliament level and Commission level – to explain this and to avoid the demagoguery and populism that is sometimes levelled against Europe.
But all these policies – from external relations, to security, to migration, to energy, to research, to universities – need money; they cost money.
Distinguished members of the Council, you cannot ask the Commission and the other European institutions to deliver and not give them the means to deliver on those policies.
This is the defining issue of the British Presidency; it is the test of whether Europe is on the move, and we need Europe on the move.
In respect of prosperity, solidarity and security, all we can do is give our citizens the means to achieve them.
It is hard to see how our positions will converge within a few months.
But now that we are a much bigger Europe and we are a much more diverse Europe we need more investment for those new Members.
This is a win-win situation for all Member States.
In our thinking there is no contradiction between cohesion on one side and competitiveness on the other, on the contrary.
So I hope that those proposals will be taken into account in the final agreement so in the end it will also be clear that what we are proposing is not money for an old concept of Europe, it is money for a more competitive and more modern Europe, but a Europe that at the same time keeps its strong values in terms of cohesion.
I trust in the common sense of the British Presidency to deliver a fair and balanced agreement next month.
He is, it is true to say, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom too, but it is in that capacity that he is President of the European Council.
In that, I think he got the order right: Parliament first, and then the Heads of State or Government.
That could then be the beginning of good practice for the future, and the United Kingdom would always be remembered for having fully involved the President of the European Parliament in the European summits.
Your reference to the quality of the Members present today was a masterpiece of British understatement.
Tremendous though I think that is, and certain though I am that the number will rise to 60, because we still have six weeks left, it has to be said that, at the end of the day, what is crucial is that the quantity of ministers from the British Presidency should be matched by their quality, and we still harbour the hope that it will be by the end of December this year.
As Chairman of a Group with MEPs from all 25 Member States and from 45 national parties, I know from experience that, where there is such a problematic interplay of interests – such as is also to be found in the other political groups, in this Parliament as a whole, and in the national governments – problems can be resolved only if there is trust.
What we expect of the Heads of State or Government is that each and every one of them should play his part in fostering trust in the other members of the European Council.
I refer, as did the President of this House earlier on, to the Financial Perspective.
I hope you will not mind if I advise you – and even if you do, I will advise you anyway – that you should find a solution to the Financial Perspective, for the UK was always in favour of enlargement, thanks to which there are Members from the countries that joined the European Union on 1 May 2004 in this House today, even if it has not always gone down the same road with us where institutional issues are concerned.
If you cannot get the Financial Perspective right, that will be disappointment for the formerly Communist countries in particular, who joined us on 1&#160;May 2004.
It has to be said, though, that if you and the President of the European Council are to do that, you will need to have the courage to draw a clear line under the issue of the British rebate.
The promises made at the Summit are in danger of being just as short-lived as the marital commitments contracted by King Henry VIII in the very same palace.
The President of Chile said so here last month.
If there is one area in which Europe could imitate the United States, it is that of immigration policy, which could be more generous.
A large part of the United States’ surplus growth in the last decade comes from the contribution of the ten million Latin Americans and the hundreds of thousands of European and Asian scientists.
Comparing Europe with others in terms of its hourly competitiveness and particularly its industrial competitiveness, it is clear that we are easily beating the United States in the majority of economic sectors.
The Commission’s communication on industrial policy recognises this.
The European Union is still the first destination and the first source for international investments.
In 2003, the investments of the 15 were four times higher in the ten new countries than in China, which received only 3.8% of European investment.
It is only natural that a country with 1.3&#160;billion people should take a greater share in international trade but, in absolute figures, Europe’s share in international trade is increasing, even though some sectors are experiencing difficulties.
This demonstrates that foreign trade is not a no-stakes game, but has enabled millions of people to escape poverty while at the same time benefiting consumers in wealthy countries.
The Union remains the leading export power in the world, led by Germany, France and Italy.
These three countries are nevertheless at a standstill in terms of internal growth.
Political will is required in order to create more solidarity among our countries and within our countries.
This means that the Union’s budget should receive more in the way of resources than the paltry 1% of GDP that a few important countries, beginning with Great Britain, wish to grant.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament will judge the Presidency on its ability to release a realistic, but more generous, financial perspective.
The December Summit must be the Summit of renewed solidarity.
A strong commitment from the 25 towards a coordinated reflationary policy, as well as greater national and trans-European infrastructure investment, will enable Europe to restart growth, which is a prerequisite for gaining acceptance of difficult structural reforms.
The debate is heating up, and this is positive in terms of ensuring that more Members become involved in it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I can understand how the high-level relationship therapy at Hampton Court apparently proceeded as it should.
I therefore have a practical request to make to the Presidency and the Commission.
In practice, there is really very little that the EU countries can do jointly to set in motion the necessary and desired process of reform aimed at modernising the European labour market so that it suits today’s society.
Efforts at reform are an exclusively national matter.
The EU can and must, however, complete the work on creating a fully-fledged internal market for capital and services.
The benefits to the people of such a reform would be huge, and that is of course what EU cooperation is all about: providing our fellow citizens with additional benefits.
I should also like to put a clear question to you, Mr&#160;Straw.
As regards the budget, lastly, I believe that we are encountering a real credibility problem in terms both of revenue and of spending – Mr&#160;Barroso and the European Parliament have sufficiently alluded to this.
For the European Union of 25 to succeed and for us to express our ongoing solidarity towards the new Member States and to carry out an external policy with sufficient resources – possibly more than 5% of the budget - presupposes an increase in the Community budget.
In the mid-term review requested by the Commission and Parliament, the Presidency and the entire European Council must make the political commitment to propose a European mechanism providing the European Union with real independent resources for the future of the Union’s policies.
Armed with such a commitment, it will perhaps be possible for us to convince our citizens of the usefulness of European policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that we have the opportunity today, in the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission, to make an appraisal of the informal European Council held at the end of last month.
Indeed, at a time when the European Union is on its last legs, given that we have twenty million unemployed, where we do not know how to address social problems, especially those which broke out recently in France, and where the citizens' confidence in governments is falling by geometrical progression, the idea of the leaders of the European Union meeting in London in order to discuss the European social model and the resistance to globalisation was, on the face of it, a very good one.
Unfortunately, instead of agreement prevailing, we again witnessed the customary quarrels break out about as important an issue to the future of Europe as the financial perspectives.
I would remind the House that Mr Blair, during his speech from this same tribune in the European Parliament on 23 June, stated that he had always been an enthusiastic champion of Europe.
I wonder, four and a half months later, how Mr Blair is translating these words into practice.
The social model has not progressed even one inch and the Council's response to globalisation is the creation of an ambiguous adjustment fund.
I truly wonder, Mr President of the Commission, if you have seriously thought about the reaction of the workers made redundant when you tell them that there is the panacea of the fund for all the ills of globalisation.
Then Mr Blair socialised – the same Mr Blair who strode into Brussels in July promising root and branch reform, but then pruned it down to the most invisible square root of a branch of any EU Presidency in memory.
If Hampton Court proved anything, it was that vacuums are dangerous when filled with hot air from politicians.
I propose that a blue metal plaque be placed on the wall at Hampton Court saying: ‘On this spot on 27&#160;October 2005 nothing happened’ or, as they say in Yorkshire: ‘Eee, you must be jokin’’. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, to paraphrase your introductory words, Mr&#160;Straw, I am here and I beg to differ.
Joking aside, despite Mr&#160;Blair’s and Mr&#160;Barroso’s welcome good intentions, the practical outcome of the Hampton Court Summit was highly unsatisfactory.
As for Mr&#160;Blair, the balance of his political account is certainly not in the black.
It is a privilege that has been paid for mainly by Italy and France, siphoning off precious resources from our two countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, from the spin of today one would think that much had been achieved at Hampton Court, but as we have already heard, the verdict of the informed EU press was almost universally negative.
One paper talked of a bizarre show of relaxed leaders who dodged the most crucial issues facing Europe.
The said in an article that the leaders attempted to answer the question of what impact globalisation would have on the European economy and concluded that we needed more research and development and, of course, more money.
In other words, they failed to answer the question.
The appropriate political levels are national governments and the eurozone.
If individual Member States were to expend the same effort and energy addressing the issue of how, as nations, to compete in a global market as they did in preparing showcase summits, then I suspect we might all see much more product.
My biggest fear arising from the failure of the Hampton Court summit and a lacklustre British Presidency is that it will make my government over-eager to secure a face-saving deal on the budget in December and that, as a result, Mr Blair will concede far too much on the British rebate, just so it can be said that something was achieved by the British Presidency – that is to say something other than ensuring EU bankruptcy by opening the door to Turkish accession. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am very sorry but I am afraid I have to be a little bit churlish as well.
And I think that Mr Straw’s speech was as Churchill once said ‘a pudding without a theme’.
First the Prime Minister downgraded the Hampton Court meeting to one day.
These are hardly the hallmarks of a Presidency and Prime Minister leading the agenda and shaping our future.
At least, however, this Parliament is receiving a report, something which the Prime Minister failed to give the British House of Commons in the aftermath of the event.
Instead, the Presidency produced a couple of discussion papers written by academics and even these were not discussed.
Europe needs direction on reforming the so-called social model.
Europe needs direction on being more flexible and responsive.
However, the fundamental issue of what to do following the rejection of the Constitution was not even on the table for discussion.
We will be looking carefully to see precisely what is contained there and whether Mr Blair ditches his previous commitments in protecting the British rebate.
This really must be sorted out by the Presidency.
Drift and indecision have been a fundamental characteristic of the British Presidency.
Hampton Court provided no evidence that the Presidency and particularly that the Prime Minister had any strategy.
Let us hope that the last chance saloon at the forthcoming Brussels Summit will demonstrate that my disappointment with the British Presidency is actually misplaced. &#160;&#160; Mr President, recently a terrorist suspect wanted by the British Government was arrested and extradited from Rome in a matter of weeks.
This is just one example of the positive benefits the European Union brings to its citizens.
I welcome the papers that were presented at Hampton Court, because they deal with how the European Union can bring added value to our citizens, particularly in the area of the energy markets where we have a crisis waiting to happen.
I would hope that out of the Hampton Court discussions came a clarification of the role of Member States and the important role of the European Commission in ensuring that Member States carry out that which they have already agreed.
If that were to happen, the European Union could move much further forward without necessarily having any of the grand plans that some people have outlined in this debate.
That will be the key success of the European Union.
I congratulate the President-in-Office for the commitment made by this Presidency to Parliament.
That is one of the most important dimensions of where the European Union is going in future to protect the interests of its citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, a meeting with little or no purpose, held in pleasant surroundings, under a warm autumn sun: that is what the Informal Summit at Hampton Court was.
In short, the Heads of State or Government did not even attempt to outline the beginnings of a response to Europe’s deep crisis, just as though finally they were more than happy to put up with this crisis.
Yes, the European effort in relation to research and development obviously needs to increase.
Yes, a common energy policy is obviously needed.
Yes, a real immigration policy is obviously needed too.
Finally, yes, Europe obviously needs a security policy.
If we want to do things together, we need political will, we need effective and democratic institutions and we need a common budget.
Mr&#160;Straw, the December Summit will be the last chance to provide Europe with a substantial budget and to thus give hope back to all those who believe in Europe’s future.
Yet, this will also be the last useful moment for the British Prime Minister if he is not to go down in history as the man who contributed to the failure of Europe and if he is not to go down in history as the one who deliberately turned the page on Europe’s political union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, if I may say so, Mr President-in-Office, the Hampton Court Summit was the biggest embarrassment that any Presidency has ever come up with.
As my group said at the informal meeting held at the end of October, it is crucial that we analyse these problems and change the policies that are at the root of this problem.
The truth of the matter is that what we have heard here offers no assurances that policies will be changed, even though it is widely acknowledged that there is growing discontent among the citizens and that there are serious social tensions in a number of countries, right here in the EU.
The infamous proposal for a directive creating an internal market for services is one such example, as, in some cases, is the Stability and Growth Pact, hammering a further nail in the coffin of the workers and the small and medium-sized enterprises.
As competition is seen as the be-all-and-end-all, precedence is always given to measures aimed at creating competition between workers in order to try to drive salaries and other social benefits further and further down.
As demonstrated by the huge growth in the profit margins of the major economic and financial groups in the EU, current policies are essentially geared towards pandering to the wishes of the Union of Industrial and Employers Confederations of Europe (UNICE).
Even when people talk of creating a favourable environment for companies, we all know that the companies in question are only the large ones.
This is a trend that must be reversed. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that the Heads of State or Government meeting at Hampton Court were debating in a vacuum.
On the great social, economic and political issues, which have been mentioned in many of the previous speeches, the results achieved were decidedly sparse.
While cities are burning across half of Europe, I feel it is terrible that they should talk in such general and imprecise terms about immigration and about the social and economic crisis, which are in fact the cause of what is happening in Paris, Strasbourg and Brussels.
The challenge that the young rioters have set us is, instead, a very serious threat, and one that we should consider carefully when we talk about immigration.
I certainly do not mean to put the blame on those young people, but rather on those who drew up these mistaken policies, those who still talk about immigration in such bureaucratic, general and superficial terms.
Our immigration policies have been a failure for Europe, and I consider it our duty to acknowledge the fact and to debate it.
I believe this summit should have set an example in this respect, and the solution proposed by the Commission – allocating a fistful of cash to the Paris – is not, in my view, an adequate answer.
Instead we need to address the causes, change our policy and stop making insane decisions, such as making it easy for people to bring in their families or even easier to take up nationality.
In essence, what we need is a sensible immigration policy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Minister, Mr Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, the talks held by the Heads of State or Government at Hampton Court represent a significant acknowledgment of the difficulties that the European Union is currently undergoing.
The fact that the 25 have recovered their composure after the tensions of recent months and that they are willing to bring the negotiations on the financial perspective to a close by December should be seen in a positive light.
I should like, however, to draw the Council’s attention to the fact that agreement must not be reached by taking the lowest common denominator and, above all, that Parliament’s position must not be ignored.
The priorities identified by Tony Blair for revitalising Europe – research, innovation and life-long learning – are proposals worth endorsing and are in fact contained in our report on the financial perspective.
In addition, the need for a European energy policy, the increase in Community aid for immigration transit countries and the globalisation compensation fund are priority aims for Europe, though they require adequate funding.
The citizens of the Union are aware that no government on its own can provide answers to the most serious of today’s problems, such as unemployment, the lack of job stability, the loss of competitiveness, international terrorism and illegal immigration.
Only Europe can respond effectively and guarantee well-being and security for our countries.
A meagre budget will not allow us to address these challenges, but the October European Council was an encouraging start.
Informal, in French, means badly formed and inelegant.
I will let you be the judges of the Hampton Court summit and the ghost of Catherine Howard.
I think that the next summit or the ones after that should enable us to rediscover a landscape that we can share with our citizens.
We are not going to harmonise everything, but it is still possible to make progress in certain areas.
Finally, another topic is close to my heart, that of exchanges between young people.
In 2005-2006, Europe is funding 280&#160;000 young people as part of three programmes: Comenius, Erasmus and Leonardo.
Mrs Riis-Jørgensen asked me about the Court of Auditors and she asked for a yes or no answer.
The answer is that the Ecofin Council on 8&#160;November adopted conclusions listing a range of actions for both the Commission and Member States.
If they do not have control of it then the European Union will have to account for it, but I am with you on encouraging our finance ministers to get a grip on this.
On the issue of transparency, which Mr Kirkhope raised with me, we will shortly be circulating an options paper with ideas for improving transparency, and essentially will be putting two options before the Council.
My problem with what a number of colleagues have said is that people refer to the need for change and then say that the future for the European Union nevertheless lies in the past.
That means that the old European economic and social model will not work to deliver prosperity, social justice and jobs in the way it used to.
France is a country which knows that, and it is for that reason there is a higher level of evasion in France than in other countries.
This is a fact, and this Parliament undermines confidence in its own measures if it turns a blind eye to what is going on when everyone knows that this has happened.
There is no European-wide requirement to set a minimum wage, which in my view is a fundamental human right.
He said that the defining issue of the British Presidency will be the financial perspective, which is a test of whether Europe is on the move.
If you asked me to bet on what historians will judge to be the defining issue of this Presidency in ten or twenty years’ time, I would not bet on it being whether or not we reached agreement on the financial perspective in December, although I hope we do.
I would remind colleagues that the last financial perspective was not agreed until the equivalent of the March Council 2006, rather than the December Council 2005.
I agree with that but would say to colleagues – and they know this to be true – that this debate is bound to be dominated by the different national perspectives and by whether a country has traditionally been a high contributor or a net recipient of funds from the European Union.
If one ignores that or abuses those of us – including Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and a number of other Member States whose citizens have real concerns about the amount they have paid in the past and the amount they will pay in the future – by saying that this is all about national egotism, we will not get anywhere.
The problem is that over the latest financial perspective the UK has paid EUR&#160;39&#160;billion, France has paid EUR&#160;28&#160;billion, Italy has paid EUR&#160;24&#160;billion and Germany has paid EUR&#160;77&#160;billion, which is another extreme.
However, the UK has still paid EUR&#160;39&#160;billion, which in population terms is much more than those other two countries.
With any, even the most minimal, change to the financial perspective, or no change at all, the United Kingdom would be paying another EUR&#160;11&#160;billion – getting on for another third more – towards the next financial perspective to pay for enlargement.
The issue is not whether the United Kingdom or the better off countries pay a bit more for enlargement – though some better off countries would not pay anything extra – but of how much more one pays in a context in which the United Kingdom has, over the last 20&#160;years, paid 2.5 times the equivalent of say France or Italy, notwithstanding the fact that our GNIs have been equivalent over that period.
No one can accuse my Prime Minister of not being courageous or of not being very committed to this Union, as we have done a great deal.
This is not about a minimalist Europe, because Europe’s achievements have been astonishing over the last 60&#160;years when one recalls the condition of conflict which had characterised Europe for three centuries prior to that.
When I look around other areas of conflict today, particularly the Middle East, with horror, it reminds me of the Britain that I grew up in as a young child just after the war and of the even worse conditions that existed on the Continent.
What we have to do for the future, however, is to build on that achievement and recognise that the challenges are a little different.
One of the areas in which we can do the greatest good, and are doing so with the great leadership of Javier Solana and the Commission, is in the field of foreign, defence and security policy.
Take what was agreed yesterday by Condoleezza Rice and Javier Solana.
It is in this area, as well as in many others, that we need to do more, and at the same time rebalance what the Union does compared to what national, regional and local government does in respect of domestic policy.
This Presidency has been a great privilege for us, Mr President.
Time is running out, results are thin on the ground, and I do not think the UK Presidency should be surprised at the criticism that Parliament is levelling at it in this debate.
I am not frightened of the institutional crisis, the financial perspective or the Lisbon Strategy in themselves, but I am afraid that all these elements together may be extremely damaging to the European Union.
The UK Presidency still has six weeks to bring its work to a close, and I hope it will be able to leave a positive message for tomorrow’s Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, normally I would complain that one minute is not enough to sum up a presidency in its latter stages, but not in this instance.
European policy is often at variance with this idea, inviting citizens to be passive and sometimes even rewarding laziness.
The EU’s share of world trade has dwindled over the past 10&#160;years, while that of the United States, and in particular China and India, has skyrocketed.
This is how the free market rates the EU’s policies, and yet the leaders of the 25 once again react with redistribution policies, which might act as a sticking plaster for the present, but under no circumstances are they a long-term remedy for the future.
I am afraid that it produced very little in the way of concrete results since, even if the questions raised were justified, specifically ‘do one or more European models exist in a globalised world?’, the response given to this question lacks clarity, to say the least.
Others have a different vision, a political ambition for Europe to be defined by its borders and by its projects, in order to assert itself and to share its humanist values in an unstable world.
My colleague has just spoken for one minute.
If they want to give their main speakers 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour, they have the right to do so, and the opposite is also true.
I refer to the positive outcome of the Turkish question, which would not have been possible without a strong commitment from the UK Presidency, and to its ability to give direction, vision and some clear objectives that were subsequently put into practice, at least potentially, at Hampton Court, namely universities, energy, security and defence policy.
Precisely from looking at those great ambitions and the few concrete results achieved, however, I must say that I am increasingly convinced – and I invite you all to reflect on this as well – that there is an enormous contradiction between the potential of that Europe and the illusion that such results can be achieved by a Europe that has less money than it needs and, above all, is unwilling to change its rules.
I hope, therefore, that these six months will succeed in convincing even the most sceptical that it is not enough to have good ideas and to show willingness: we must also realise that either we have the courage to change by taking a leap forwards along the road to integration, or we die. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would be fascinated to know at what stage the British Presidency realised that to have adopted as its logo a flight of birds heading towards Europe was a mistake!
While the British Presidency has to recognise that, at some point, it is going to have to compromise, it is also important for other Member States to realise that they must give too.
Above all, though, we regret the lack of concrete results, constructive proposals, and serious negotiations with this House in order to resolve problems and hammer out answers to people’s questions.
All six of the points that emerged from Hampton Court may well be right, but most of them are not things that the European Union has the powers to deal with.
Let me turn to the Financial Perspective.
The European Union needs to harmonise research and development, to significantly increase expenditures on education, to liberalise services and put in place a common European energy policy, and it needs all of these at the same time.
We have the diagnosis, but European leaders have so far failed to provide the answers.
Agreement has still not been reached on the Financial Perspective 2007–2013, which could be a disaster for us, the new Member States, as we stand to lose two-thirds of our possible financial support.
I also think it is important, since Mr Tony Blair has attacked the common agricultural policy, that the way forward for us is not to demolish existing Community policy, as cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy are major achievements of the European Union.
Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány proposed that, alongside Community policies, we should establish coordinated cooperation, which would mean harmonising national policy in the different areas.
This would not mean new Community policies, but would help to improve cooperation, be it on energy, be it on research and development.
I call upon Mr Barroso and the Commission: let us help Europe heal its current crisis and let us move forward in the area of coordinated cooperation. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the British are famous for their nerves of steel, their reserve, their calmness, their peculiar sense of humour and also for their emotional self-restraint.
I was therefore very surprised to hear Lord&#160;Bach say yesterday that if a compromise on the REACH regulation is not adopted before the year is out, he will consider it both a personal failure and a failure on the part of the British Presidency.
If the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective is not adopted before the year is out, will you too consider this to be a personal failure, on your part and on the part of Prime&#160;Minister&#160;Blair?
Tony Blair gave a fine speech to the House in Brussels in June, and his analysis of the crisis in which Europe finds itself was worthy of publication.
Unfortunately, during the following months and subsequent ministerial speeches we have heard nothing but increasingly pale repetitions of the Prime Minister’s proposals.
My impression is that the British have lost the will to fight for the realisation of their vision of the European Union.
Instead, they have decided to muddle through this six-month Presidency as best they can.
At the same time, however, I have to admit that after the questions and speeches of Members of this House had left him with no other option, Mr Straw finally started to talk about business like a normal human being, which is how a politician should talk.
The way in which the Presidency is putting off the debate on the Financial Perspective until the last minute, as well as preparing the budget proposals behind closed doors and talking in Orwellian newspeak about the problems of civilisation faced by the world instead of holding a hard-hitting debate on the business at hand, amounts either to time-wasting or to a deliberate attempt to pass the hot potato of the budget on to Vienna in December.
I would ask you to take this Financial Perspective seriously, and to embark on effective measures to ensure that it is adopted in December. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the outcome of the informal meeting of the European Council at Hampton Court, and not the performance of the six-month British Presidency.
I am content with the outcome of Hampton Court.
The meeting clearly identified six areas that are crucial to Europe’s survival and success in the globalised world, which included science and research, investment in our universities, energy policy, global security and the common foreign and security policy.
I believe that the outcome will be a positive one. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Straw proudly told us that we have had 48 ministerial speeches during the British Presidency but I have to say that we have very little to show for any of them.
I am amazed that with just a month to go before it comes to an end, the UK Presidency is still talking about agendas, strategies and timetables.
People want more local control over their own lives, but our governments continue to cede powers to regions and to Brussels.
I ask you: what sort of relationship with what sort of Europe is right for our people and our nations in this first half of the 21st century?
Mr Straw mentioned the working time directive and the temporary workers directive.
In comparison with a similar sized economy such as France, the United Kingdom already contributes disproportionately to the EU budget and that is after Margaret Thatcher’s rebate.
At the same time gallant officers and soldiers are hung out to dry by a government-inspired system that cares little for their wellbeing but everything for its own political agenda… &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Hampton Court Summit was to discuss how Europe could do better in the world.
Despite that, a few weeks later, Prime&#160;Minister&#160;Meles attended the Gleneagles Summit hosted by the British Presidency.
In September, several governments and the President of the Commission sent him messages of congratulation.
On 1&#160;November, another bloodbath took place: 58&#160;elected leaders, journalists and NGO members are in jail and, according to the Prime Minister, face the death penalty; dozens more were killed, hundreds wounded and thousands were arrested.
The debate following the departure of Foreign Secretary Jack Straw was taken forward by Mr Pistelli, who spoke of the European Union being like a family.
A rather less lofty point was then made by Mr Hudghton.
But I, unlike him, am aware that I speak today for the Presidency of the European Union rather than simply rehearsing domestic political disputes between our parties.
Mrs&#160;Sudre emphasised the need for agreement on future financing by the end of December.
Indeed, a number of other speakers addressed this continuing issue of the importance of reaching agreement.
It reflects the distinctive approach taken by Jack Straw as the Foreign Secretary, whereby – somewhat similar to future financing – questions were raised as to the strategy the Presidency was adopting.
I hope that we achieve a similar outcome in relation to future financing.
Mr Davies, who has now left the Chamber, again emphasised the importance of future financing.
On the basis of the British motivation and indeed the British capacity to deliver the deal, what matters is not the will of one country – of the Presidency – but the willingness of all Member States to work together to find a consensus.
If what mattered was simply the motivation of the Presidency, we would have seen agreement reached in June rather a situation in which five Member States were unable to accept the Luxembourg proposals.
Mr Karas questioned the importance of enlargement in the face of enduring significant competitive challenges that we face, such as unemployment.
Surely the very point that he makes about enduring unemployment and the need for us to address those challenges, makes the case for Hampton Court.
It is necessary for Europe to have a clearer sense as to its future direction before we would be able to try and secure the consensus we want on the basis of the financing of the European Union.
Mr Tabajdi offered a qualified welcome to particular aspects of the work programme that was agreed at Hampton Court and Mr Sonik quoted to me the earlier remarks of my ministerial colleague, Lord Bach.
I am sorry to disappoint him: as regards future financing, there can be no guarantees that agreement can be reached.
Mr&#160;Rouček said that he was content with the outcome of Hampton Court and argued for an honest, fair and well-balanced deal on future financing.
Suffice it to say that he did not have the chance during his speech to acknowledge the invaluable work that had been undertaken by the Commission in the course of the British Presidency on exactly that issue of better regulation.
Today I pay tribute to the personal commitment of President Barroso and indeed to Commissioner Verheugen in driving forward this agenda during the British Presidency.
Mrs&#160;Gomes raised important challenging points in relation to human rights, democracy and development within Africa.
I should like to echo a point made earlier by Mr Davies, that those of us who are sincere and genuine in our commitment to help the developing world recognise that there is a continuing challenge that lies ahead of us in the remaining weeks of the British Presidency, which is to try and have an ambitious and balanced outcome to the Hong Kong ministerial meeting that will take place in December.
I understand what the Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said before he left about other issues that were very important and that will have strategic consequences.
Precisely because of that, it is important to get an agreement on the financial perspectives, because this will be the first test for the enlarged Europe.
I know that is not the idea of the British Presidency, I know that is not the idea of the Commission.
That is why it is crucially important to have an agreement on the financial perspectives, because if not, if we do not have that instrument for what people are asking of the European institutions, there will be, and I really believe this, a crisis of confidence that will be reinforced in Europe.
And this not only applies to the current situation in Europe, but also to the future of Europe, future accessions to Europe, to our capability to build a Europe.
You can achieve that agreement, at least among Member States.
It is crucially important and it is my duty and my responsibility, as President of the European Commission – which has to represent the general European interest – to call on the responsibility of all leaders in Europe to make the best efforts to achieve that compromise.
In fact, everything that we have done so far has been, from my point of view, a great contribution for Europe.
As I said in my previous statement, I think that the Hampton Court Summit was a good summit, it made a good contribution to that new, emerging consensus about a stronger, more modern Europe.
However, the test in the minds of the new Member States, the test for a major proportion of the European public centres around whether we can really show that we are on the move on those concrete questions.
It is difficult but it is possible, and the real test for our leadership is to make possible that which is necessary and I believe we can do it. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the recent statements of the President of Iran, Mr&#160;Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. &#160;&#160; .
It is right, therefore, that the European Union should be active in shaping that debate.
Iran’s decisions about its relations with neighbouring countries can affect the security and prosperity of peoples well beyond the region of the Middle East.
I believe that the international community, and particularly the European Union, must maintain its dialogue with Iran’s new government.
We have a responsibility to encourage those who now hold power to make choices that are in the best interests of that country and the region as a whole.
As I said the last time I had the privilege of addressing this Parliament, Iran is a land of genuinely vast potential.
These are deeply troubling statements.
The Presidency statement issued on behalf of the European Union Heads of Government meeting at Hampton Court on 27&#160;October strongly condemned President Ahmadinejad’s remarks.
Calls for violence and the destruction of any state are manifestly inconsistent with any claim to be a mature and responsible member of the international community.
The Presidency summoned Iran’s chargé d’affaires in London to protest at these remarks, and many governments across our Union of 25&#160;nations did likewise in their national capacity.
I welcome the swift response from the wider international community, including from governments within the Middle East region itself.
Saeb Erekat put it eloquently on behalf of the Palestinian authority when he said he hoped President Ahmadinejad will focus on adding Palestine to the map rather than calling for Israel to be wiped from the map.
Kofi Annan, the United Nations Secretary-General, spoke for the world when he stated that Israel is a long-standing member of the United Nations, with the same rights and obligations as any other.
Under the United Nations Charter, Iran, like other members of the organisation, has undertaken to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state.
I hope that President Ahmadinejad will recognise the damage that these remarks have caused to its standing in the international community and withdraw them unconditionally.
His remarks are a further reminder of the imperative for Iran to take steps to address international concerns about its intentions in relation to the nuclear programme.
Iran’s nuclear ambitions were discussed by European Union foreign ministers when we met in Brussels on 7&#160;November.
At that meeting the Council reiterated its grave concern at Iran’s resumption of activities at the uranium conversion facility at Isfahan and urged Iran to implement all the measures requested by the International Atomic Energy Agency Board.
The European Union’s preferred approach remains the resumption of negotiations within the framework agreed in Paris last November.
The European Union has urged Iran to take the steps necessary to make this possible.
A satisfactory resolution of the issue of Iran’s nuclear ambitions is of fundamental importance to the international community.
Turning to the field of human rights, we continue to be deeply concerned by the serious and continuing violations by Iran.
I know from our last debate on this issue that this is a matter of ongoing and profound concern to many Members of this Parliament.
We therefore urge Iran to strengthen respect for human rights and the rule of law.
It is disappointing that the EU-Iran human rights dialogue has not been held since June 2004, despite repeated attempts – I can assure you – on the European Union’s part to agree dates for the next round.
I welcome the resolution on human rights that Canada tabled last week at the United Nations General Assembly.
European Union Member States have agreed to co-sponsor it.
Iran can begin to do this by fulfilling its obligations and earlier commitments in relation to juvenile executions and by permanently releasing prisoners of conscience.
Turning now to terrorism, the Council remains concerned by Iran’s approach to terrorism.
The fact that President Ahmadinejad’s comments were made on the same day as the horrific attack at Hadera in Israel, for which Palestinian Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility, should reinforce for us all the lesson that incitement to violence and the terrorism that it breeds are despicable and unacceptable acts.
The European Union has encouraged Iran to join, without reservation, the international consensus on the necessary existence of two states – Palestine and Israel – living peacefully side by side within recognised borders.
The European Union stresses that support for Palestinian terrorist groups is unacceptable.
I believe that this is genuinely a crucial time for Iran and for its government.
The recent remarks by President Ahmadinejad have focused attention upon Iran and its position in the world.
I believe our united response to President Ahmadinejad’s remarks about Israel has been successful in putting Iranian policy on this issue directly under the spotlight.
President Barroso reacted immediately on behalf of the European Commission by issuing a very firm condemnation in the clearest possible terms.
We know that the President of the European Parliament has also condemned this statement very forcefully and, as Mr Alexander has already said, the European Council also issued a very strong declaration from Hampton Court.
I would also like to thank the Presidency for having associated our heads of delegations in statements made by the Presidency, together with the Commission, especially in the Arab countries.
But when they are made in the current delicate climate, and especially by the Head of State himself in connection with a conference entitled ‘The World without Zionism’, I think it really is time to draw a red line and to remind the Iranian President of the responsibilities that come with being a member of the family of nations.
Clearly we all want to avoid Iran becoming a nuclear weapons state.
But this is not the only area where we would expect the Iranian Government to deliver.
Iran’s attitude towards the Middle East peace process in particular is very important.
Since the launch of our EU-Iran comprehensive dialogue, the successor of the critical dialogue, that has been identified as one of the major issues of concern, along with weapons of mass destruction, terrorism and human rights.
Over the past months, the EU has invited Iran to reactivate our tracks of dialogue, by holding sessions of both the comprehensive dialogue and the human rights dialogue.
I believe that we should try to build bridges with the Iranian people and I prefer to think that not all Iranians identify with the remarks and the line taken by their leaders.
Freedom of expression and association in Iran are eroding.
We should continue to monitor closely, for instance, the treatment of individual cases, such as that of Mr Akbar Ganji.
But as the Council clearly stated last week, ‘the evolution of the long-term relationship, avoiding a deterioration between Iran and Europe, will depend on action by Iran to address effectively all of the EU’s areas of concern’.
That includes Iran’s attitude towards the Middle East peace process.
Iran has remarkable historical, cultural and geo-political assets, as well as immense natural and human resources.
Of that, the Iranian Government must be made aware.
It is, however, precisely because things have turned out so badly that those who, with a great deal of goodwill, wanted to give the new government a chance must, today, say loud and clear: ‘nip this in the bud!’ – and that is the position we must adopt.
It is not only the Israelis who have a right to live within secure borders; we in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have always acknowledged the right of the Palestinians to do so as well.
What the President of Iran is doing puts the Middle East peace process as a whole at risk, and that is bad news not only for Israel, but also for the dignity of the Palestinian people.
Following our criticisms of Ahmadinejad, I saw on German television demonstrations in Teheran, with men wearing suicide belts, something that in itself constitutes an incitement to terrorism.
Yesterday, too, a British colleague told me that two people had been hanged in Iran as a punishment for homosexual relations.
Both the President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner mentioned the civil nuclear programme.
This morning, I urged the Russian Government, through one of its representatives, to do everything in its power – for it enjoys a degree of influence on Iran – to bring about, at last, transparency in all these questions touching on nuclear energy; the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council have made similar demands.
Iran has a major role to play in the peace process in Afghanistan, the peace process in Iraq, in relations with Syria, Israel, Lebanon, and Palestine.
Iran needs a good future, and it is to be hoped that its President will come to realise that he needs to adopt a civilised approach in his dealings with both people and states around the world. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we too endorsed the need to hold this debate, because we want the serious remarks made by the Iranian President, Mr&#160;Ahmadinejad, regarding the existence of the State of Israel to be met with a firm, unanimous response from the European Parliament.
Returning to the Middle East, on the one hand hopes have been raised again for a peace process that will lead to the emergence of the Palestinian State alongside the State of Israel, a solution that for us has never been and will never be an issue.
On the other hand, however, we realise that this process has many enemies and that terrorism is in fact backing those who do not want a solution to this tragic situation.
Peace, democracy, freedom and social justice are the values that we want to prevail in the Middle East, and we want Europe to play an ever greater role in making that happen.
Unlike President Ahmadinejad, we shall strive to add a new state to the map of the Middle East.
The European Union has taken the lead in bringing this isolation to an end, and a comprehensive debate has been set in motion about such things as economic relations, international cooperation and human rights.
Since President Ahmadinejad took up office, however, there has been a clear and perceptible setback in the shape of the sentencing of juveniles to death, renewed persecutions of journalists and human rights activists and the recall of 40 ambassadors.
Recent statements by the President – who has congratulated suicide terrorists and said that Israel must be wiped off the map – are completely at odds with the Charter of the United Nations, are deserving of condemnation and are wholly unacceptable not only politically and in terms of international law, but also, and above all, from a humanitarian and moral point of view.
Israel’s right of existence within internationally recognised borders and in safety alongside a viable Palestinian state is not a matter of dispute.
Iran would do well to contribute to a solution in the Middle East and to stop supporting international terrorism.
President Ahmadinejad’s speeches make it clear that we Europeans can do nothing to stop a hatemonger mobilising thousands of people the length and breadth of his country; that is not our task, neither is it our field of activity, but I do nonetheless appeal to those in power in Iran to consider whether they might play a positive role in the international community by giving their backing to the right of both Palestine and Israel to exist, rather than allowing their President to make their rich country an international pariah.
Iran is also represented by such a man as Akbar Gandji, whose life is at risk because he refuses to submit to censorship.
Iran is also the Nobel Peace Prize winner Shirin Ebadi, who has addressed this House.
Iran is also the lawyer Abdolfattah Soltani, whom we once invited to this House and who is now in jail.
It is to this other Iran, then, that we should try to stretch out a hand.
We have committed ourselves to human rights, to peace and to the peaceful resolution of conflicts.
It violates human rights and barbarically sentences people to death by hanging etc.
His doing so is, of course, completely unacceptable and must be condemned by everyone.
I assume that we are a unified Parliament that supports the condemnations both of this statement and of the Iranian regime’s human rights violations.
There is a danger that the President’s statement will make the work to bring about peace in the Middle East that much more difficult.
It is clearly intended to provide the country with nuclear weapons.
The ability of the West to deal with the threat posed by Iran has been severely restricted by the war in Iraq, a war Britain entered into because of the lies and deceit of our Prime Minister, Mr Blair.
But once again, the EU assumes the attributes of a political state in order to address this problem and its pretensions are fully supported by a minister of Her Majesty’s Government.
Meanwhile, this Parliament continually calls on both France and Britain to decommission their independent nuclear deterrents.
Iran is a country of 68 million inhabitants, has an area of 1.7 million square kilometres and is a major oil producer.
Its current president is trying to turn it into a state that represents the most extreme form of Islamic fundamentalism, that supports or does not condemn terrorist acts, and that is preparing to produce nuclear energy without the backing of the international community.
If the Iranian President does not clearly change his stance, he will be a threat not only to Israel and the region, but also to all of us, to peace and to democracy.
The unilateral nuclear rearming of Iran must be stopped in line with our resolution of 13&#160;October 2005 and the conclusions of the General Affairs Council of 7&#160;November.
If this threatening trend in Iran’s policy does not stop, we shall have to speak firmly of diplomatic and economic consequences, because these statements inciting violence against a democratic sovereign state are a danger to the democratic community as a whole.
We express our greatest solidarity with the State of Israel, which has also received statements of support from that part of the Islamic world that rejects terrorism, as well as the spontaneous support of the citizens of many of our countries.
President Ahmadinejad’s comments caused concern about Iran’s role more widely within the region and indeed about its future intentions.
The fact that these comments were made on the same day as a horrific attack on Israeli citizens should reinforce for all of us the lesson that incitement to violence and to the terrorism that it breeds are despicable and unacceptable.
Frankly it is clear what Iran must do.
There is no reason why an Islamic political system such as Iran’s should deny fundamental democratic rights such as freedom of choice and freedom of expression and there can be no excuse for any system abusing human rights, as a number of speakers have made clear in the course of their contributions to this debate.
On 7&#160;November, as speakers have mentioned, European Union Foreign Ministers reaffirmed the Union’s support for a diplomatic solution to international concerns over Iran’s nuclear programme which should include an agreement on long-term arrangements.
Such a solution would help create the climate we believe to be necessary for a better relationship with Europe generally and the international community as a whole.
Our preference remains to aim for a mutually beneficial relationship based on cooperation and our shared interests, in that Europe wants to see Iran realise its potential and to grow and prosper.
That is certainly what its young population deserves and that is, as Ms Beer said, why it is important to keep open the links so that the other Iran, as it was described – the more open Iranian society to which speakers have addressed themselves today – can welcome the efforts which are being made to maintain that dialogue, certainly by the Commission and by others.
But a relationship of this sort will also need to address the European Union’s main concerns, including, of course, nuclear proliferation and human rights.
In conclusion, on behalf of the Presidency, let me say simply this: Iran stands at a critical juncture.
We from a European Union point of view will continue to encourage Iran to address international concerns about its policies and about its statements.
I hope that Iran does this and that its relations with the wider world and the European Union in particular are therefore able to evolve in the direction in which I believe this House wants them to develop. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The European Social Fund is the main financial tool through which the European Union supports Member States’ employment policies within the framework of the European employment strategy.
The Structural Fund supports measures to improve employment opportunities and to develop human resources and integration into the labour market in order to promote a high level of employment, equality between men and women, sustainable development and economic and social cohesion.
Rural development also makes European Union funding available in parallel with national funding for developing rural areas.
We have had a long and useful debate in the course of the afternoon which, while apparently directed towards the Hampton Court informal Heads of Government meeting, in reality strayed into the issue of future financing.
You are from an island, as I am; this measure, although it would not affect countries which only have a continental structure, would have a very negative impact on the island regions and, above all, on those which are a very long way from the central nucleus of the European Union.
Indeed I hope many of our efforts in the course of the Presidency have challenged that impression.
There is, as I said, provision for the Commission to take action in particular circumstances, and Mr Muscat is right to recognise that free movement of services is one element of the original Treaty of Rome.
However, to counterbalance the rather negative construction that he has placed on the present position in relation to air fares in one particular Member State, it is important to recognise that some of the measures taken at European Union level in recent years have resulted in very dramatic drops in the price of tickets that are being charged to European Union citizens to travel elsewhere within the European Union.
Only this morning I had the opportunity to travel to Budapest where I was hearing directly about the seventeen daily flights now available between a number of regional airports in the United Kingdom and Hungary.
That would have been inconceivable only a matter of years ago, and the European Union deserves credit in recognising the extent to which it has contributed towards the new opportunities that are afforded to many citizens to travel, which have now been enjoyed by many citizens in recent months and years. &#160;&#160; Last month I tabled a question for this session of Question Time to the Council on a related subject, that of EU kerosene tax.
In response to the question as to what the Council’s position on EU kerosene tax was, I was told that because it had not received a proposal from the Commission, the Council could not take position.
The Council is currently considering an action plan on trafficking in human beings to develop a comprehensive and strategic European Union approach on this issue.
The action plan will build on the conference held on 19 and 20&#160;October, ‘Tackling human trafficking: Policy and best practice in Europe’, organised by the United Kingdom Presidency, the Commission and Sweden. &#160;&#160; That is rather inadequate.
I would however say that it rather ill befits her to suggest that there is a conflation between illegal immigration and human trafficking when the conference that I described on this important issue of human trafficking was entitled ‘Tackling human trafficking: policy and best practice in Europe’.
I can assure the honourable lady that the United Kingdom, as Presidency of the European Union, has prioritised work on combating human trafficking, and the EU Action Plan for best practices, standards and procedures for combating and preventing trafficking in human beings has been the focus of our efforts.
Indicative amounts are used as an important indicator of whether the quantity of excise goods carried across borders is for commercial reasons or for private consumption by non-taxable persons.
Indeed, countries who at times in the past have questioned our pro-European credentials have been some of those most critical of our efforts to continue to advance discussions in relation to the issue of services.
On the specific issue that the speaker raised in relation to cross-border shopping, let me simply say that the Presidency fully supports the rights of cross-border shoppers.
At the same time, though, we are committed to tackling those who abuse freedoms that would otherwise be enjoyed by citizens right across the European Union.
Speaking for a moment from the United Kingdom point of view rather than the Presidency point of view, it is the case that in the United Kingdom we have the highest guide levels of all the Member States of the European Union.
The President-in-Office will be aware that, since February 2005, non-EU/EEA nationals have to obtain Home Office permission to get married in the United Kingdom.
The European Union has most recently expressed these concerns in the context of the EU-China human rights dialogue, which took place on 24&#160;and 25 October 2005 in Beijing.
The European Union has also repeatedly raised this issue in other bilateral meetings, including at the highest level.
Article&#160;19 of the ICCPR was therefore the subject of a recent legal seminar of European Union and Chinese academics and practitioners that took place in Beijing in June 2005 in the context of this dialogue.
I personally think that the Council should adopt a tougher, more principled and more courageous policy where very basic human rights and the fundamental free expression of opinion are concerned, and would ask it, if possible, to revisit the specific case I have mentioned and perhaps, in this specific case, to contact the Chinese authorities. &#160;&#160; .
For the past ten years, it has been unable to give a satisfactory statement of assurance.
I can assure the House that the Council has consistently attached great importance to this issue and has regularly expressed its concern about the level of errors in transactions underlying payments and weaknesses in the control system.
As Members of the House will know, the Council has examined the recent Commission communication on a roadmap to an integrated internal control framework, which is part of the process towards a positive statement of assurance.
The UK Presidency and the Commission established a panel of experts which helped prepare a draft Council conclusion on this issue.
Indeed in the remarks that were made by my ministerial colleague the Foreign Secretary in this House this afternoon, he made clear that ‘failure to sign off accounts for the eleventh successive year, which is very poor, affects the climate of debate in all our countries’.
So at every level of the British Government and in the course of our Presidency, we have recognised the need to take forward work on this issue.
In January 2005, the Commission introduced a new accounting system, which should offer the Court of Auditors better information as the basis for giving a positive opinion on the presentation of accounts.
The new system, I understand, will be used to produce the accounts for 2005.
So I can assure the honourable Member that this is not simply a matter of concern to the British Presidency, but one which, in the course of that ECOFIN meeting and in support of the renewed efforts of the Commission, we have been determined to take forward.
I would simply reiterate the point the Foreign Secretary made earlier, which is that, in the hands of those who are hostile towards the very idea of the European Union, the failure to sign off the accounts for the eleventh year is ammunition which we should certainly endeavour not to provide in the years ahead.
It is certainly true that action needs to be taken at Member State level rather than simply at the bureaucratic level within Brussels, but that should not in any way provide an excuse for the action that other Members have called for not being taken both in Brussels and at Member State level.
All of us with an interest in building and sustaining support for the European Union and its efforts amongst European citizens have a strong vested interest in seeing this long-standing problem being resolved.
That will involve action at the Member State level, but it will also involve the kind of important work that we took forward at Ecofin and which, I am glad to say, has the support of the European Commission. &#160;&#160; I wish to follow Mr Martin’s observation to the Presidency-in-Office, because the President-in-Office used the expression ‘has brought no credit to the European Union’, as if somehow the European Union is a different institution from our national institutions.
I simply should like to emphasise the fact that the reason the Court of Auditors has found it difficult to sign off the accounts is not because of corruption in the European Union – as distinct from the Member States – but because the Member States do not assist the European Union to give the sort of valid accountancy that the Court of Auditors and EU institutions require.
It would simply be disingenuous if I were to suggest that this does not present a very considerable reputational risk to the European Union, not least in the way that this failure to secure a statement of assurance for the eleventh year running has been presented in newspapers in a number of countries across the European Union, rather than get into a ‘who is right, who is wrong’ argument.
The challenge is to find solutions that reflect the respective responsibilities of the Commission, the bureaucracy in Brussels and the Member States, but it is not an adequate response to the fact that, for 11 years, a statement of assurance has not been forthcoming simply to say that this is a matter for Member States and therefore there is no shared responsibility to find a way forward.
The working group considering the Commission’s revised comitology proposal has met three times so far and will meet twice more under the British Presidency.
I understand, however, that discussions are going well. &#160;&#160; May I just thank the Presidency for its answer and urge it to persevere.
If we manage to find a solution to this issue which has beleaguered the Union for many years, we will be making a notable contribution to our endeavours to regulate better.
I find myself in concurrence with his view, both as to the importance of this issue and to the fact that we need to persevere.
I can assure him that, from a Presidency point of view, we are persevering on this important point and will continue to do so.
They added thereafter that the European Union was strengthening, and again I quote directly: ‘its commitment to combating terrorism and upholding the fundamental principles of freedom, security and justice’. &#160;&#160; Thank you for your response.
For this reason, and following up on the discussion at the informal Heads of Government meeting in Hampton Court, the Presidency has asked the High Representative, in association where appropriate with the Presidency, the future Presidency and the European Commission, to take forward work in this particular area.
I can assure the honourable Member that I will be back in my customary place in the course of the further plenary sessions of this Parliament.
Our Prime Minister has committed himself to coming back to speak to Parliament.
The Presidency is currently exploring, together with the incoming Austrian and Finnish Presidencies, a series of possible measures aimed at further increasing legislative transparency in the Council. &#160;&#160; I thank the President-in-Office.
Let me say what an enormous relief it is to have a few minutes of not debating REACH in endless groups around this Parliament – a few minutes only, I fear.
A strategy of not seeking consensus and naming and shaming is a curious line of argument to advance but I think it indicates the seriousness of the strength of feeling among many honourable Members of this House on this important issue.
The position of the British Government on this matter has been stated by none other than our Prime Minister, but he is right in recognising that the United Kingdom, although acting as Presidency, is not the sole actor on this stage.
When we issue proposals in the coming days, setting out to partners the possible options for increasing transparency in the Council, I can assure the honourable Member, who has spoken with eloquence in terms of the importance he attaches to this issue, that we will be discussing this paper with the incoming Presidencies and also with the Council Secretariat.
I defer to the honourable Member in terms of the detail of his historical understanding of this issue, reinforcing the longstanding interest that the Benn family has taken in this matter.
It might be of interest to the honourable Member to be aware that this is a matter in which I have been in discussion with Tony Benn’s son, because he is now one of the United Kingdom’s representatives on the Council of Development Ministers and therefore has a direct interest in the position that we take in that and other Councils.
In answer to the earlier question, I would simply reiterate the point that our own Prime Minister made when he addressed the European Parliament early in the course of the British Presidency: it is that impulse that has driven us to take forward the discussions at COREPER and that we now anticipate we will take forward in the days ahead. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, I apologise to you and the Presidency itself for being late.
I spoke with Mr Hilary Benn on Sunday about this very matter when we were at Remembrance Day in Leeds.
I should like to ask the President-in-Office what the position is regarding what I was told by Mr Blair – and indeed what I was told today by Mr Straw – concerning how we go forward with this issue of openness and transparency in terms of the Council.
I was told by Mr Straw this afternoon that two options were being considered.
I cannot claim to have spoken to Hilary Benn in quite as recent days as he has, but I can assure you that, when I meet him at Cabinet tomorrow morning, I will search out what he told you at the Remembrance Service in Leeds on Sunday.
COREPER I will also feed into this process.
This delimitation of the geographical scope of the agreement is identical to the delimitation in the previous agreement that expired in 1999 and does not in any way prejudice the issue of the status of Western Sahara.
The initialled agreement is now in the ratification process, which is expected to lead to its formal conclusion in the first quarter of 2006. &#160;&#160; I wish to thank the Council for its answer.
The problem with it is that it means that the EU has concluded a fisheries agreement whereby the EU will fish in the waters of Western Sahara, which is a country occupied illegally by Morocco.
As I stated earlier, the fisheries agreement does not in any way prejudice the issue of the status of Western Sahara.
As with the previous longstanding agreement, the new EU-Morocco fisheries agreement applies to ‘the Moroccan fisheries zone under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the Kingdom of Morocco’.
The fisheries agreement does not in any way prejudice that issue of the status of Western Sahara, as the honourable Member suggests. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, I do not think that one can, as Mr Sjöstedt has just done, simply describe Morocco as an occupying power.
The United Nations enjoys the Council’s full support in seeking to find that genuine and satisfactory solution to the question of the Western Sahara.
We certainly hope that a resolution of this situation will be forthcoming. &#160;&#160; Questions 16 to 36 will be answered in writing(3). &#160;&#160; Parliament is concerned at the human rights violations in Tunisia that have come to light at the United Nations World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS).
On a visit to the country earlier in the year, and in a statement made in September, the President expressed his displeasure at the repression and harassment meted out to NGOs and the media in Tunisia, and pointed out that this runs counter to the spirit of the EU-Tunisia association agreement.
These international commitments and obligations derive from the agreement on international humane trapping standards signed in 1998 between the European Community, Canada and the Russian Federation and from another agreement of similar content signed between the European Community and the United States in the form of agreed practices.
The agreement with Canada and Russia, which has already been ratified by the European Community and Canada, will enter into force immediately after its imminent ratification by Russia, a procedure which, according to the Commission's official information, has already been set in motion.
Consequently, unless the relevant Community legislation is adopted, the European Community will not be in a position to honour its international commitments when the agreement enters into force.
Nonetheless, if it is adopted, it will provide a framework for the adoption of common standards in the European Union in order to limit unnecessary suffering and distress for the animals trapped.
The rejection of the proposal will mean that the European Union will be left without any trapping standards in the immediate future and that the European Community will be unable to honour its international obligations.
To close, I should like to stress that I shall take account of Parliament's opinion and I shall evaluate the positions formulated both in Parliament and in the Council.
At the same time, the Commission is planning to prepare a study with a view to updating the scientific basis for any proposal on the adoption of trapping standards.
As Commissioner Dimas said, the Commission proposal of 2004 is the instrument whereby the international agreement is to be implemented.
Such a basis is absent; all that has been done is to incorporate, almost word for word, the agreement negotiated ten years ago.
There are also legal incongruities between the proposal and other EU legislation, including, for example, the directive on the protection of animals used for experimental purposes and the habitats directive.
The proposal is very weak and will do nothing to reduce the suffering of animals caught or killed by means of traps.
It was threats on the part of the USA and Canada to contest these import restrictions before the WTO that resulted in the negotiation of an agreement between the EU, Canada, Russia and the USA, which only the EU and Canada have so far ratified.
The trapping standards prescribed in the agreement reflect norms already in force in Russia, Canada and the USA and can in no way be categorised as humane.
It was as long ago as 1997 that the European Parliament adopted a report that described the international agreement as wholly inadequate in terms of either animal welfare or the environmental objective and expressed the view that it was wholly unacceptable that the European Union should sign up to it.
This House adopted this report by a large majority in 1997.
We are concerning ourselves with the transposition of an international agreement between Canada, the USA, Russia and the EU, even though this agreement was – as the rapporteur said – rejected in 1998.
Only in the European Parliament can such a thing happen.
Speaking personally, I do not find this situation so problematic, having, at that time, voted in favour of the agreement or, to put it another way, against its rejection, because I was confident that the participating countries actually would maintain the standards required, and because I was keen that these countries’ indigenous peoples should not lose their livelihood and should be able to live from trading in skins and pelts.
What made this achievement possible was years of pressure exerted by the European Parliament, by the Commission, and also by the animal welfare organisations.
It is for this reason that we believe that its implementation would have an impact on the internal market and should therefore be subject to Article 95 as its legal basis.
The fact that this is not the case is another reason for us to vote against this report.
Even though my amendments did not attract the support of a majority in this House, I should nonetheless like to bring them to the Commission’s attention.
We in this Parliament have a duty to contribute to the legislative process and we will be rejecting the proposal tomorrow without giving an indication as to how things should be done instead.
I must, of course, also say a word about the muskrats.
Rejecting this directive should not be an excuse in the Netherlands not to enter into the debate of muskrat control, and while I am on the subject, I should like to thank Mrs Scheele for triggering an enormous discussion, which we would not have had without her amendment.
The criteria to be met by traps and tests for the same are arbitrary.
Animals often drown in a different way, are clubbed to death or kill each other.
There is inconsistency between this proposal and the Habitat Directive.
Other animals too that fall within the scope of this proposal, including the marten and the badger, are protected or preserved in certain areas.
In the European Union, we are indulging in animal protection .
We must remember that, in 1998, the European Parliament rejected the conclusion of tripartite agreements with Russia, Canada and the United States, because it felt that they were not ambitious enough to be effective.
Unlike today’s events, though, the vote in 1998 was of no consequence, because the Council could have concluded the agreements even against Parliament’s wishes.
That is our question to the Commission.
And you know, Commissioner –&#160;and I am well aware of this, coming from France&#160;– how difficult it is to enforce the Habitat Directive, to protect wolves and to try to explain the situation.
It is therefore for all these reasons that we are rejecting this proposal and that, in truth, Commissioner, we are counting on you to act as an intermediary between Parliament and the Commission and to get it to withdraw this draft. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this proposal for a directive from the Commission is no great success.
Our political group concurs with the criticism made.
Firstly, I take the view that this directive would render the effective control of pests impossible in certain Member States – I am thinking especially of the muskrat in the Netherlands.
This can have major consequences for public safety.
Commissioner Dimas said that he could understand the concerns of many organisations.
My second argument for rejection concerns the legal foundation.
Protocol 33 to the EC Treaty grants the EU competence in the area of animal welfare only in the framework of agricultural, transport, internal market or research policy.
The draft directive implements the international agreement on humane trapping methods, which was concluded in the context of the common trade policy.
Since the proposal harmonises the Member States’ standards for animal traps within the internal market and does not serve a direct environmental goal, Article 95 alone can be seen as the correct legal foundation for this proposal.
I would like to have Commissioner Dimas’ reaction to this. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, for the third time since 1991, in other words in 15 years, our Parliament, as usual during the night sitting, is discussing the issue of traps and their ‘barbarism with a human face’.
The ban was intended to apply as of 1995.
So, Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, let them live! &#160;&#160; Mr President, I, too, would like to thank the rapporteur for the report.
Account must, of course, also be taken of animals’ capacity for causing the sort of damage that endangers lives.
That having been said, we do, as legislator, have to consider how we can come to the right decisions given the powers with which we have been endowed.
If we follow the reasoning of the Commission and this House’s Legal Affairs Committee, the basis is Article 175 and that immediately following it.
This is too important a matter for us not to seek out the best for animals as much as for human beings.
It should also, of course, be borne in mind that the doctrine of subsidiarity requires that the Member States be given the opportunity to enact stringent animal protection rules, whilst also prioritising the safety of human beings. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am not going to break the mould because I too support the idea of rejecting this proposal.
It is also perplexing – and I raised this in committee – to see a list of 19&#160;species to be covered by the directive and then to discover that some of them were actually protected species in the European Union.
Therefore, I was pleased to hear that the Commissioner is prepared to listen to Parliament and to find an alternative way forward on this issue.
Mrs Scheele has done a very good job and we have a united front in Parliament, which is very different from the debate the Commissioner witnessed on REACH yesterday, the outcome of which we will see tomorrow in the vote. &#160;&#160; If the purpose of this Directive has been to introduce humane trapping standards for certain animal species, then that purpose has failed.
The fact remains, however, that the international agreement entered into by the EU, Canada and the Russian Federation, the environmental component of which this Directive wishes to transpose into EU legislation, is the first of two which deal specifically with the question of wild animal welfare, despite the fact that its primary purpose is to facilitate fur trading.
I would like to draw your attention to Article 5 of this agreement, which comprehensively obstructs the efforts of countries which have already introduced hunting regulations surpassing international standards.
If the existing standards only derive from a set of lowest common denominators, parties to this agreement will not be encouraged to consider developing more humane standards. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to echo the comments that have already been made by several other Members in support of the position of Mrs Scheele, the rapporteur, in her report.
As we have heard, colleagues want to reject the Commission proposal for a number of different reasons; but we are in agreement about the rejection.
As has already been said several times, this proposal has been criticised by anyone who is involved in this area – by the scientists, by animal welfare groups, by pro-hunting groups – because it is not based on the latest scientific research evidence and it certainly does not prevent, or even reduce, the suffering of animals in traps.
This Parliament has often shown its political will to protect animals and this weak proposal certainly does not achieve that.
We are not talking about a few animals, but about millions of animals that are trapped every year in the European Union.
So for these reasons, and for many other reasons, it is not acceptable and the Commission should produce a new proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Commission’s proposal concerning trapping leaves a very great deal to be desired.
Under the proposal, traps are to be tested according to strict standards, special training for trappers is to be introduced and home-made traps are only to be permitted in exceptional circumstances.
I want to draw Members’ attention to the fact that the Committee on Legal Affairs has issued an opinion concerning the proposal’s legal basis.
This opinion has been incorporated into the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and recommends that Article 175 form the legal basis for the proposal.
The protection of wild animals is not, however, a part of the EU’s environmental policy and does not even come within the EU’s competence.
If Article 175 were to constitute the legal basis, there would be a great danger of more and more matters such as this being regarded as EU issues and dealt with at EU level.
These rules must, however, be laid down by the Member States and not in Brussels. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this proposal will probably be rejected tomorrow.
For such people, this proposal is quite simply not sufficiently far-reaching.
The fact is ignored that trapping is an important part of caring for wildlife and the environment.
Moreover, the Commission is trying to extend its powers to issues that the Member States really are best placed to deal with.
Firstly, I think that we must take the existing international agreements as our starting point and not try to extend them in a way that is in danger of creating new barriers to trade.
In the last analysis, doing that only hits individual manufacturers and hunters and creates problems.
In order to avoid bureaucracy, it should have been possible to approve the results of tests already carried out on various traps.
I hope that the Commission will take these arguments on board and not just listen to the arguments of those who wish to put a stop to trapping. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commissioner spoke earlier on about our international obligations.
I am no legal expert, but the Commission must agree that there are serious legal inconsistencies between this proposal and other EU policies, to which both Mrs McAvan and Mr Blokland, from different starting points, have drawn attention.
Air in the atmosphere and the air we breathe is rightly considered a subject necessary for environmental legislation at EU level.
I think that we must include other animals as subjects of this debate instead of ignoring this problem and only taking an interest in the cruelty to animals caused through trapping.
I should like to emphasise that we must broaden our perspective in order to avoid legitimising the brutal treatment of animals on farms in both China and Denmark. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I could not disagree more with the previous speaker.
This proposal seeks to implement a trade agreement allowing the EU to comply with its international trade obligations, but its contents relate to the welfare of wild animals, for which the EU does not and should not have competence.
The Treaty only empowers the EU to take responsibility for animal welfare in the context of agriculture, transport, internal market research and areas such as the welfare of farmed animals, fur farming included.
But there is a problem, as Mr Evans said.
In general, it is essential to rely on local knowledge in applying trapping and hunting legislation.
The wrong kind of intervention at EU level can compromise an otherwise noble objective, as in all areas where subsidiarity should be upheld.
Hundreds and thousands of animals are caught in traps all over the European Union, and the practice is primarily used to manage animals living in the wild and, in particular, to combat pests, of which muskrats are but one example.
It was in 1998 that the EU, together with Canada, Russia and the USA, concluded the agreement on international humane trapping standards.
These countries are the principal exporters of furs and pelts, and the EU, in two decisions, rightly justified this by reference to its competence in general economic policy and, in particular, in policy affecting the internal market.
It has to be said, though, that the proposal takes environmental policy as its primary basis, but the EU is responsible for the well-being of animals only in conjunction with other policy areas, such as agriculture, transport, the single market or research.
This House, of course, is – as of course, am I – all in favour of safeguarding the well-being of animals in the wild, but that, as a subject for legislation, is a matter for the Member States.
As I mentioned earlier, I have taken account of the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety concerning the rejection of the Commission proposal and I have heard this evening all the different opinions formulated here, opinions which may in numerous instances have had various starting points but which almost all arrived at the same conclusion.
The proposal for a directive being debated would have filled a legal gap, given that, if we exclude the 1991 Council regulation, there is no other legislation on trapping standards at European Union level and, at national level, the existing legal framework is very restricted.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - A6-0292/2005 by Mr Romeva i Rueda, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the Council's Sixth Annual Report according to Operative Provision&#160;8 of the European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports (2005/2013(INI)), - A6-0297/2005 by Mr Kristovskis, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction: a role for the European Parliament (2005/2139(INI)), and - A6-0288/2005 by Mr Wuermeling, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the Green Paper on defence procurement (2005/2030(INI)). &#160;&#160; .
Furthermore, spending on this kind of export and this kind of purchase prejudices other investments that are often much more necessary for economic and social development.
We Europeans therefore have a great responsibility.
In fact, the report approved a few weeks ago by the Committee on Foreign Affairs clearly specified the need to strengthen the code of conduct and turn it into a legally binding text.
Furthermore, this report raises other issues that are also important: for example, the fact that transfers of production capacity are subject to the code and that special monitoring mechanisms are established for cases in which it has been decided to lift the arms embargo.
Firstly, because sufficient and reasonable conditions are not in place for doing so and, secondly, because doing so would send the completely wrong message, not just to China, but to the world in general, about how seriously we take this kind of embargo.
The report also mentions aspects that relate to arms brokering, the regulation of torture equipment, the impact of enlargement and also the role to be played by the European Union in relation to the United Nations.
We are at the end of 2005, two more Presidencies have gone by and we are still waiting.
Therefore, the report contains an assessment not only of the jointly implemented policy of the European Union and its Member States with regard to WMD non-proliferation and restriction, but also an examination of aspects of the activities of the USA, Russia and other states that are jointly responsible.
The report voices dissatisfaction regarding the inability of the international community to reach a consensus at the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference held in New York in May this year.
Such a lack of trust does not foster multilateral cooperation but devalues the activity of the International Atomic Energy Agency and other special chemical and weapons control organisations.
Similarly, when the report was being debated within the European Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs, differing opinions were expressed concerning steps that could be taken internationally on a multilateral basis.
Ladies and gentlemen, I will touch on one more aspect of the report which is, in my view, particularly pressing.
I believe that the success of the European Union’s common strategy on WMD proliferation is now to a large extent dependent on the available financial aspects of the European Union’s strategy for restricting the proliferation of WMD.
Unfortunately, there is no clarity at the moment either in the European Parliament or in the other European institutions about the funding of the priorities laid down by the Council’s Personal Representative or of the programmes accepted by the Commission’s global partnership of eight.
This is absurd, since it would be necessary, according to previous political decisions, to allocate more than 900&#160;million euros over the next five years for the various measures in European Union programmes planned for the restriction of WMD proliferation, for disarmament and for weapons destruction.
This figure and this level of funding demonstrates the European Union’s ambitions in previous years, but there is a time when the political will to fulfil commitments that have already been undertaken has to be demonstrated.
This means that the Commission and the Council first of all need to be able to agree on drafting a goal-oriented, effective financial instrument for the needs of the WMD programme within the framework of the next Financial Perspective, as well as within the Community budget, and the funding framework of the European Council’s Common Foreign and Security Policy.
I would like to start by expressing my very warm gratitude for the input provided by those Members who had a hand in drawing up the report, whether as rapporteur in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, or as shadow rapporteur in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
My discussions and conversations with them have been a source of very useful suggestion, which have been incorporated into the report.
I am also grateful to the interested parties for taking part in our hearings and thereby helping to prepare the sector for these changes.
The topic is a decidedly delicate one, as the procurement of military equipment can be said to touch upon the very heart of national sovereignty.
It was for that reason that the Treaty establishing the European Community, back in the 1950s, included a derogation clause safeguarding the interests of national security.
The procurement market within the European Union remains, however, utterly fragmented, with every country having its own preferred suppliers and purveyors by appointment.
Instead of competition, there is a fragmentation that prevents our industry from being competitive internationally and entails very high costs in the purchase of military equipment that might be available on more favourable terms elsewhere, and that is a burden on the wallets of the taxpayers who, ultimately, have to pay for it all.
It was for that reason that we, in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection and the Committee on Foreign Affairs arrived, on parallel lines, at the conclusion that the time has come for us to venture a bold step.
I believe that the key to our reaching a common mind without regard to party boundaries on this matter has been that we said at the very outset that we would concentrate on the issue of the single market and would not allow the discussion to get bogged down in general policy issues relating to security, the armed forces and peacemaking.
These amendments, which are somewhat ideological in character, have made them less so.
Whilst the report's primary focus is on stimulating improvement in European practice, it also recognises the EU's potential to stimulate best practice in the European Neighbourhood and in the wider world.
It advocates an international arms trade treaty.
The Commission strongly supports opening negotiations on a legally binding arms trade treaty.
The Commission is regularly involved, with other international organisations and NGOs, in dealing with the consequences of inappropriate or illegal arms sales.
It is now two years since the adoption of the EU strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
The non-proliferation regime is seriously challenged.
The European Union is defining its budgetary priorities for the coming years.
As mentioned in the report, the Commission has long been engaged in cooperative assistance programmes to reduce the risks associated with WMD-related materials, equipment and technologies, particularly in the area of the former Soviet Union.
These actions constitute the core of the Commission's contribution so far to the G8 global partnership against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
The EU strategy calls for the creation of a specific Community budget line in this domain.
This and subsequent proposals are under consideration here and in the Council.
As requested in the report, the Commission stands ready to provide further information to Parliament on past and ongoing Community programmes supporting WMD non-proliferation and disarmament goals.
It is very important that this communication adequately reflects the position taken by Parliament.
I warmly thank, on behalf of Commissioner McCreevy, all those who made this possible, in particular Mr&#160;Wuermeling, Mrs Beer and Mr Hökmark, who did a remarkable job in their respective committees.
The Commission, which was urged back in 2002 by the European Parliament to take initiatives in this field, is particularly happy with the content of this House's contribution.
The public debate carried out over the last few months and the various contributions received show that the majority of the stakeholders share the same objective.
Even Member States now seem convinced that something has to be done quickly in order to move things forward.
The current negotiations within the European Defence Agency on a code of conduct clearly show the political will to put an end to a situation that is unanimously considered unsatisfactory.
The Commission is, therefore, ready to play its part in this process.
But also – and perhaps more importantly – it could propose new, more flexible rules for the procurement of defence material, rules which better suit the specific nature of this material.
The Commission will carry out the necessary preliminary assessments and consultations and the European Parliament will be closely involved in this process.
I thank you very much for your support and for your three very important reports. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I am to talk about defence procurement and should like to say thank you to Mr&#160;Wuermeling for his report on this issue.
I think it important to state that defence procurement will play a decisive role in enabling Europe to be a leader in military terms and in terms of technology.
However, defence procurement is also crucial if we are to play a role in terms of research and development in this area.
This means that we need to have large companies that can operate on an international basis and come up with the best products.
Europe’s problem is that we have a fragmented market because of historically differing security interests.
With a declining number of purchases and lower defence appropriations, together with – and this is something important to remember – a significant increase in the need for research and development, Europe is not well placed if developments on our continent are to be more or less in balance with, for example, those in the United States.
One of the more crucial tasks is therefore to ensure that, when it comes to the type of defence procurement falling within the framework of Article 296 of the Treaty, we can obtain increased cooperation in terms both of procurement and of open competition among producers.
If we do not succeed in obtaining all this, we shall not be able to compete or play our part in developing the most advanced defence equipment, for such equipment is covered by Article 296, which permits derogations for the Member States.
If we are to be able to alter this situation, the very first step is to obtain a common code of conduct and, in the longer term, a directive.
It is, however, important for a start to be made on this work.
Otherwise, the foundations of the European defence industry will be undermined. &#160;&#160; . – Commissioner, representatives of the Council and the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to thank Raül Romeva i Rueda, the rapporteur, for the work he has done in evaluating the European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports.
Since I was entrusted with the task of drafting the opinion of the Committee on Development on this issue, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the fact that we were able to agree on the inclusion in the report of the aspects which the Committee on Development considered most important.
On behalf of the Committee on Development I would like to express my conviction that the export of arms to poor, conflict-ridden states cannot be tolerated, since it fosters poverty and violations of human rights.
It has to be said that the impact of SALW trade is particularly detrimental for development policy in the Cotonou Agreement states.
For this reason, the Committee on Development calls on the Council and the Commission to formulate SALW guidelines precisely for developing countries; emphasises the need for disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration measures; repeats the need to draw up a package of new post-embargo instruments, and calls on the European Union Member States, the Council and the Commission to encourage the African Union and Africa’s regional bodies and to strengthen the arms control export requirements regionally and nationally in accordance with the standards of the European Union’s code.
The need to make the code of conduct on arms exports legally binding is emphasised.
I hope that the opinion of the Committee on Development, which has been put forward for the first time, is an important contribution and reaffirms the truth that security is the primary precondition for development. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, according to Operative Provision 8 of the code that we are examining, Parliament and the Council are obliged to re-examine this document every year.
The Council ought to start working towards this without delay, because a policy regulating arms exports, based on a legally binding common code, can play a key role in fighting terrorism and preventing conflicts.
There are obviously some aspects of the report where we should have liked to see more tangible progress, for instance as regards information exchange and the denial notification system.
That is why I also regret the presidency’s absence this evening, especially since the country currently holding the presidency of the European Union is also a recognised nuclear power.
There is once again a pressing need for campaigns aimed at stopping the spread of weapons of mass destruction.
If anything, the number of states that have nuclear weapons appears to be growing, and that is setting a bad example to other countries and at the same time, as the Commissioner already said, there is a real and evident risk of terrorists getting hold of weapons of mass destruction or nuclear material.
Just now, though, we can perceive a trend towards settling disarmament matters outside of international frameworks.
This year, the international community, including Europe, has failed to adjust, revamp and strengthen the non-proliferation treaty, while the United States increasingly wants to pursue its own disarmament policy, particularly where the fight against the spread of nuclear weapons is concerned.
Both are highly detrimental to the credibility and effectiveness of the global non-proliferation regime that is still an essential pillar of our policy.
That is why it is of the utmost importance for us to counter this trend and get a better grip on the spread of not only weapons of mass destruction, but also of nuclear technology and nuclear chemical and biological material; the same applies, in fact, to the exports of conventional weapons.
The European Union will need to lead the way in terms of where the non-proliferation treaty is heading, but is also doing good work in many other areas, such as the recent proposal, or lobby, for an international arms export treaty.
At the same time, there are more contradictions in the international regime, which also involves European countries.
One of the absolute priorities in the European Security Strategy is, under European guidance, to try to find a peaceful solution to the Iran issue; at the same time, we invest far less in the clearing of nuclear arsenals than the Americans.
The Kristovskis report is therefore right to call for increased financial backing for this political priority.
Finally, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament sets great store by the rule of international law.
In the Committee, we discussed at great length the paragraphs in the Kristovskis report on the use of violence to prevent non-proliferation, the spread of nuclear weapons.
We still think that the clause in the report does not do enough justice to our opinion about international rule of law and the role of the United Nations in this.
We are all, of course, aware of the fact that the Member States currently evade the rules of the internal market where armaments are concerned by claiming, under Article 296 of the European Communities Treaty, an essential national interest in the procurement of new weapons systems, while not limiting this to real weapons systems, but practising it in the procurement of all types of military equipment.
The Commission has earned our gratitude by taking the initiative, and the report’s rapporteur, Mr Wuermeling, has argued in favour of the drafting of a communication interpreting Article 296 and of a directive on public contracts in areas with relevance to security.
Speaking on behalf of my group, I recommend endorsement of the report, although we do not want to exclude the option of a code of conduct as an additional instrument for creating greater transparency.
I therefore recommend that the House endorse the Green Paper, and also that all three proposed instruments for improving transparency be employed.
The Commission proposal goes in the right direction for achieving Europe’s strategic repositioning in security and defence policy, which is made necessary by the prospect of our external policy tasks being added to rather than being reduced in number.
No EU Member State can face these challenges alone; ‘Europeanisation’ must be the watchword.
The fact is that the cost of operations will rise, especially if the armaments market in the EU of 25 Member States continues to be fragmented.
According to Eurobarometer, two thirds of the European public are in favour of closer cooperation within the EU in security matters.
I believe that the issue of weapons of mass destruction genuinely deserves special attention, particularly in view of something that has already been said: if we want to have credibility on the international stage, particularly in this field, the European Union must begin to offer an example.
The report points clearly to the need to highlight the role of nuclear disarmament and to make a success of the demands of the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
Secondly, however, we must also remember another point: there are certain NATO countries, including the United Kingdom and France, which, ignoring the situation, are initiating what could be a new nuclear arms race.
I would finally like to draw the attention of this House to one issue: the recent news that United States troops have used white phosphorous in the streets of Fallujah.
On our order of business we find three reports: Mr Romeva í Rueda’s on arms exports, Mr Kristovskis’ on weapons of mass destruction, and Mr Wuermeling’s on the European military equipment market.
My group takes a generally positive view of the report on arms exports, even though there is still room in it for improvements, such as more precise criteria, and even though considerations of peace policy of course make an outright ban on arms exports preferable from my point of view.
Mr Romeva has earned our gratitude by accepting an amendment from my group, which makes it possible for the code to be made legally binding also with regard to goods for dual use.
The Kristovskis report presents us with quite different issues.
It was actually meant to discuss the means whereby the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction might be combated, but what we have before us is a fire report, which views the Iraq war – a crime in international law – in a positive light.
When it comes to the West’s weapons of mass destruction, the report is hypocritical in the manner customary in this House.
We therefore propose that the US nuclear weapons be required to be removed from European soil, that the French and British nuclear weapons be mothballed, and that Germany should once and for all renounce its potential for enriching uranium in its research reactor at Garching.
I regard this report on the military equipment industry as very frank and honest.
They call for the rejection of a new generation of nuclear weapons, for progressive and significant steps towards nuclear disarmament by Britain and France and for the harmonisation of arms exports – all this when the world is growing more dangerous and not less so.
The incompetent left-wing utopian dreamers who predominantly make up this deeply stupid and corrupt place do enough damage with their legislative efforts without meddling in defence issues.
National governments might one day, eventually, be able to undo the EU’s idiotic policies on agriculture, fishing, commerce and finance, but if the EU manages to take control of defence there may be consequences that cannot be undone.
If the day ever dawns when Britain’s national defences are controlled by the European Union, then God help us.
It is a sign of the times that the fight for peace is also being waged by the Members of this Parliament at night.
The paragraph concerning the risk of proliferation of Cold War stockpiles of biological, chemical and nuclear weapons is of particular significance, as is the reference to the ban on nuclear weapons tests in space, which was adopted 38&#160;years ago.
I should like to conclude by saying that our emphasis on the fact that even a justified use of military force must comply with the UN Charter, and be preceded by the use of all possible political and diplomatic means, is to be welcomed.
The European Parliament cannot work wonders, but it may well be in a position today to give peace a somewhat better chance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are three important reports we are debating in this Chamber this evening.
As shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in connection with the report on weapons of mass destruction, I think that the report is sound, robust and well-balanced.
It is a very comprehensive report, but the subject too is, of course, very important.
We must also work to ensure that countries that possess nuclear weapons illegally, that is to say Pakistan, India and Israel, sign up to the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).
If the EU’s strategy for the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is to continue to have some clout, it will be necessary to give priority to the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) and, especially, to give high priority to this particular area in the future too.
Let us each individually work to ensure that this also remains the attitude of our respective countries’ governments. &#160;&#160; – According to a recent US Congress report, arms contracts to developing countries signed by the four main European exporters in 2004 totalled just under USD&#160;5&#160;billion.
This is a fivefold increase on the 2003 figure.
This will serve to hinder development by fostering the proliferation of conflicts in Africa and possibly in other continents, too.
It is for this reason that we believe, in common with the excellent Romeva report, that the code of conduct must be made legally binding as a matter of urgency.
Along with the Commissioner, we welcome the Council’s decision to fight for a proper universal Treaty at the UN containing common rules on the global armaments trade.
The Wuermeling report contains an aspect that is key to the future of the common European defence and external policy project, and this is reflected in Amendment 6 tabled by my Group.
Parliament must take the lead in what is, more than anything, a political and strategic debate, and what we are proposing is a first step in that direction.
I feel that it is not possible to have a coherent and effective non-proliferation strategy while the five authorised nuclear-weapon states, including two EU Member States, fail to honour their undertakings to disarm gradually, under Article 6 of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), and continue either to neglect, or take action against, nuclear powers such as Israel, India and Pakistan that are not signatories to the NPT.
This is all the more serious when, in addition to other countries, non-state actors or terrorists seek to get their hands on illegal weaponry. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the most dangerous weapon of mass destruction is the nuclear bomb.
This bomb, this weapon, has been used twice by the USA, killing hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians in a split second.
These countries, along with Israel, India and Pakistan, belong to the fearful nuclear club of eight that holds the whole world to ransom.
The answer is, in my view, shamefully simple: we lack political courage.
So, we choose to be hypocrites instead – and life goes on as usual. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in his report, Mr&#160;Wuermeling maintains that the discussion is not about foreign, security or defence policy in general, but only about the procurement of goods and services.
However, there is of course a link between defence procurement and defence policy.
Using George Orwell’s newspeak, I could say that war has become peace.
Instead of all the talk about increased resources for research and development into new weapons, the EU and the Member States should invest their resources in research into peacemaking and conflict resolution.
It is through disarmament and demilitarisation that we build peace, not through further militarisation and the acquisition of more weapons. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, on the one hand, the great powers, such as Russia, are downsizing their weapons arsenals, while, on the other, the number of states and, alas, criminal organisations who possess the know-how needed to manufacture weapons of mass destruction is on the increase.
We know that, in 2004 alone, secret services across the globe recorded over 300 instances of illegal handling of nuclear material.
The war in Iraq and the silence in the face of North Korea have given not a few governments the impression that nuclear armament alone is sufficient to deter military interventions.
It will certainly send out a powerful message if we can tighten up the code of conduct for arms sales and thereby prevent EU Member States selling weapons to third states that then use them on their own peoples or for the purposes of aggression directed at other states.
This code of conduct must not, however, be some kind of toothless tiger, or else we will not only be putting at risk the security of innumerable people but also exposing ourselves to ridicule. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, if you ask me, today’s debate is a missed opportunity.
If, for example, we were to discuss our course of action regarding Iran, this would not be a matter of arms, but of politics.
Another reason why this is a missed opportunity is that the field of security and defence, in particular, presents great opportunities.
Even in the presence of a founding father of the European Constitution such as Mr&#160;Brok, I would venture to say that the Constitution is currently at a standstill.
This had only been envisaged in the draft Constitution, of course, and is already a reality.
That means that we are making progress in this field, and I am convinced that we are on the path to a European Security and Defence Union, which is also our common objective.
This is not a debate that should be conducted in camera, as we are doing this evening.
I should also like to say a few words to my colleague Mr&#160;Lambsdorff.
I think that Strasbourg is the right place for this debate, as it is the seat of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by adding my voice to Mr&#160;Matsakis’s protest.
During my twenty years in this Parliament, I have never seen a Member behave with such disdain towards this institution and its Members.
As Mr von Wogau has said, this is not a debate about arms; it is a broader debate, it is a debate on common foreign and security policy, although I will only be able to comment on the report by Mr Wuermeling, on defence procurement.
I believe that the Commission is right to point out that Article 296 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, which currently represents a constitutional obstacle to the development of what we may call a European defence market, may to a certain extent be overcome on the basis of the judgments of the Court of Justice in recent cases, such as the Johnston case, or the case of the Commission against Spain, of 1997.
We must, however, be prudent from a political point of view, because the objective of a common European defence market cannot be to transform the European Union into a military industrial complex, as in the case of certain foreign powers.
Arms are dangerous.
We cannot use them, for example, for economic or industrial development.
The purpose of arms must be to protect the European citizens and also to protect those friendly, peaceful and democratic nations that need them for their own defence, but not to do business with them or to turn Europe into a kind of enormous industrial market place which, at the end of the day, will come back to haunt us.
I believe that the Commission’s proposals are positive, that these proposals will lead to the creation of that common defence market, but that the common defence market must be an instrument for achieving peace in Europe and also peace throughout the world. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the report shows the Union’s commitment to making the multilateral agreements on non-proliferation and against the development of new-generation weapons universally applicable.
The report calls for sanctions to be applied to countries that do not comply with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540.
Nonetheless, although it is a fact that the European Union Member States are signatories to the multilateral non-proliferation agreements, it is also a fact that two Member States are nuclear states, that Turkey, a candidate country for accession, is a nuclear state and that, even more seriously, US tactical weapons are deployed on the soil of many Member States, including Germany, Italy, Greece and the Netherlands.
The proposed report is an utter travesty of good sense and is therefore totally unacceptable. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the three rapporteurs, Mr&#160;Wuermeling, Mr&#160;Romeva&#160;i&#160;Rueda and Mr&#160;Kristovskis, have addressed important fields that need to be considered together to a much greater extent, rather than in three separate reports like this, as they are only outwardly contradictory, and are in actual fact connected.
We have to consider how to guarantee our security as a small corner of the world.
This can only be done via collective security within the transatlantic alliance, which also means that Europe cannot leave this alliance, as that would mean we were susceptible to blackmail: on various grounds and by various regions of the world.
This will make us constantly susceptible to blackmail, since we cannot do what we want or, consequently, make a contribution to our own security.
The European Union and the Commission need to be given more money for research and other fields, therefore, to ensure that we are in a position to guarantee our own security and to form alliances whilst having independence and immunity to blackmail.
All of this must be integrated into a code of conduct, which would lend credibility to our fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
In my view, this code of conduct should be legally binding.
Therefore – in order to save money, guarantee the security of our citizens and at the same time ensure a more peaceful world – I would invite us to increase the focus on this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly I welcome the report on the code of conduct and arms sales and draw to the House’s attention the fact that many of the demands we made in our previous annual debates on this subject have been realised: in particular the new trade regulation on torture equipment, the common position on brokering, and the new obligation to stop exports if there is a risk to international humanitarian law.
I am proud that my own country, in its previous Presidency, oversaw the agreement of the EU code of conduct on arms sales and in this Presidency has overseen agreement by the European Union, for the first time, to support an international arms trade treaty.
The UK Government has reduced the stockpile of nuclear warheads by more than 70%, has reduced the number of warheads on each Trident submarine, from 94&#160;to&#160;48, and has dismantled all of the WE-177 nuclear bombs.
We should welcome the fact that there was an EU-agreed common position in advance of the NPT review conference and take up the mantle of issues, where we, as the EU, should take a lead, such as withdrawal from the Treaty, the universalisation of rigorous safeguard standards through the IAEA additional protocol, and also the question of the transfer of enrichment and reprocessing technologies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Madam Commissioner, in discussing defence matters we are entering into important and sensitive areas of national sovereignty.
Turning firstly to defence procurement, the Wuermeling report is driven by a very strong integrationist impulse.
Certainly the report seeks to entrench the European Commission’s role in defence procurement and wants such matters dealt with under EU rather than national legislation.
We already have a situation where the British defence procurement market is open to foreign competition in a way in which the market in France, for example, is not.
The British Government must not only take the necessary decisions to maintain our nuclear capability; it must also be prepared to adapt our weapons and the doctrine for their use.
On the subject of arms exports, while we welcome calls for better verification of the end-use of exported goods and the maintenance of the arms embargo on China, we continue, however, to have difficulty with the idea of a legally binding code of conduct.
It was interesting listening to this speech by a representative of a list of candidates that also includes two people who, in very quick succession, have been publicly found guilty of abusing the secretarial assistance allowance in recent weeks.
We should intensify our offensive against this band of hypocrites in this House and in our public-relations activities.
It does not make sense for various companies in three major EU Member States to work on the Unmanned Air Vehicle project, for example, in separate projects that have nothing to do with one another, and to duplicate earnings, as it were.
Nor does it make sense for three major EU Member States to develop, separately from one other, electronic identification systems for infantrymen, and for there to be insufficient clarity as to whether troops from one and the same European battle group, for example, could identify each other in action if they came from different countries.
We should also bear in mind that even in 10 years’ time the armies in the EU will still have to use 23&#160;different types of armoured vehicle.
I should also like to warn against one illusion, however: a single European Defence Equipment Market cannot be achieved if enterprises operating under market conditions have to compete with those that are government-backed.
The public’s answer to the question as to what objectives the EU should set itself is that it should become a Security and Defence Union.
When the public is asked what it wants, its reply is: a common foreign policy represented by one face and one person, not 25 vested national interests.
The answer is ‘no’.
We want a common foreign and security policy, we want the evolution of the EU into a political union, we want a strong internal market and we want to reduce our dependence on the United States.
We need common European technological standards in this field, to enable and strengthen cooperation.
Clear rules on defence procurement are therefore required.
Moreover, there must be strategic coordination of existing defence companies in various Member States, with the European Agency acting as one of the focal points for technological innovation and for perfecting the products and processes of European firms working in defence-related sectors.
Clear and transparent rules on defence procurement can help a great deal in this regard.
Otherwise, the market will become concentrated on these companies, thereby, in practice, blocking free competition in the European internal market.
The aim is no less than to impose far-reaching restrictions on derogations from the general rules of economic competition – Article 296 of the Treaty enables Member States to use and abuse the derogation system – and a number of national monopolies have been profiting from this at the citizens’ expense.
The lack of transparency when it comes to public procurement, fragmented research programmes and inadequate standardisation lead to low quality and poor interoperability, and in turn to ineffective national defence systems.
There is, therefore, ample justification for opening up the EUR&#160;160&#160;billion defence market, not least because most Member States are finding it hard to honour their obligations as regards NATO defence policy.
If the Commission’s proposal obtains the support of all 25 Member States, they should be expected to work together on innovative strategies, to cut costs and to create fresh opportunities for businesses, not only large corporations, but also small and medium-sized manufacturers and suppliers of logistics equipment.
The fundamental condition for the opening up of the defence market, however, both for myself and for a number of Members of this House, is to ensure that the EU Code of Conduct on Exports of Military Equipment is rigorously complied with.
A number of Members have mentioned that some EU Member States are actually in breach of the code, while declaring themselves determined to prevent the export of equipment which might be used for internal repression or international aggression, or indeed contribute to regional instability.
Finally, on 20&#160;September, in reply to a question I put to you, you indicated that you intend to draft a communication on small arms and light weapons before the end of 2006.
Some fellow Members have also mentioned that the European public expects increased common action among the Member States in the field of foreign and security policy.
We must show leadership and lead by example on the trade in arms to have credibility to bring about change outside the Union in arms trade standards.
We should not fear a legally binding code but see it as an opportunity for the EU as regards raising standards in arms export policy.
The four major EU arms suppliers have dramatically increased their share of arms sales to the developing world in the last year.
In 2004, USD&#160;4.8&#160;billion of business was done, which is more than 22% of total arms sales.
I support the concept of the creation of a so-called blacklist of countries that should not have arms sold to them from the EU.
Finally, I want to urge the Commission to use all opportunities available to it to promote an acceptance for an international small arms treaty in order to move forward a common standard approach for arms sales internationally.
The fact that the developed world continues to tolerate the sale of weapons to such people should be a cause for serious and continuing concern in this House. &#160;&#160; .
We have spoken on rather specific topics, but some of you have said very clearly that there are many more dimensions, taking in a common foreign and security policy and a common security and defence policy.
Making the code of conduct a common position will be a major step at European Union level.
In fact the code of conduct on exports of military equipment that was adopted in 1998 contains many common criteria against which applications for export licences are assessed.
As is stated in the code of conduct, the decision to transfer or deny a transfer is at the discretion of individual Member States and the Commission is therefore not in a position to comment on alleged circumventions of the code of conduct with regard to any country.
I say that specifically regarding the question on Colombia.
It is one criterion among others, such as regional peace, security and stability, but it is for the Member States to comment on that issue.
On weapons of mass proliferation, it is now two years since we developed a fully fledged strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
In this context, it is critical to ensure that financial means will be available for the future.
The combination of the CFSP and Community tools would allow the European Union to maintain better visibility and also more credibility.
However, a lot has to be done, as I said earlier, for instance, within the framework of the United Nations, where we were very disappointed at the last negotiations on weapons of mass destruction.
On the third issue – defence procurement – let me again thank all of you, and the rapporteur in particular, who supported this report and therefore the proposals put forward by the Commission.
As I have said, more efficient public spending on defence will contribute to the prosperity of the Union, because it means that taxpayers’ money could be reduced.
As usual, we will continue to work very closely with the European Defence Agency, as suggested in the Wuermeling report.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; , The European Union’s approach to weapons of mass destruction has been defined, and now we also have to convince other peoples of its validity.
The EU must prevent the failure of future conferences on the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and it must necessarily strive for all countries to sign the treaty, for the treaty to be obeyed, and for the inspection mechanisms to be reinstated, with the full support of the UN authorities and with the aid of sanctions where necessary.
We call for a more forceful strategy, involving all EU Member States, that severely sanctions activities that contribute to proliferation and reinforces the ban on chemical and biological weapons.
The European Parliament’s determined stand against the use of weapons of mass destruction is due to the awareness that such use causes not only the loss of human lives, but above all the erosion of those ethical values – the common heritage of the peoples of the European Union – that underlie our history and inspire the present and future existence of our Community.
