Ladies and gentlemen, I will end my remarks by thanking everyone who has contributed to this report for their work, including the secretariat of the Committee on Budgets, the members of the Commission, my political group's experts and those who have submitted amendments.
If we want MEPs to work effectively they must have the option of carrying out their duties in their own language if they so decide.
We saw this ourselves in the recent raid on the branch of the ING Bank in the European Parliament building in Brussels and also in the threat to the lives of the two MEPs in Mumbai.
On this basis, the Commission will, on 29 April, adopt its preliminary draft budget for 2010.
I am confident that a satisfactory agreement on the 2010 budget will, once again, be achieved through good cooperation and collaboration between all the institutions, and especially with Parliament.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (EL) Madam President, the European Parliament budget for the coming year will have three new elements.
My political group has tried to reflect these new developments in the Maňka report through numerous amendments and we are delighted to see that the Commission has been able to reflect these new dynamics in four basic priorities.
The third priority is that we must be able to evaluate progress in the implementation of the major plans which we have already approved, such as Europarl TV or the Visitors' Centre, which we would have liked to be ready before the European elections and which unfortunately is not, and the House of European History.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, the debate on the Surján report, for which I have the honour of acting as shadow rapporteur, is a political debate with a great many crucial points, especially this year.
Secondly, priority must be given to the citizens' social protection; this social indicator, which is peculiar to the European Union, must be nurtured come what may.
However, we would stress that the response which we want to give through the budget must be a response with these characteristics.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DA) Madam President, Mr Surján has chosen 'security' as the heading for the 2010 budget, the word being interpreted in its broadest sense: alleviation of the financial and economic crisis, its importance for jobs and economic security, the security of energy supplies, safe transport, the safety and security of citizens in relation to the problems caused by immigration and the problems arising as a result of demographic changes, with fewer young people to care for an increasing number of elderly people, the need for better environmental protection, the need to fight against terrorism and the need to promote safety and security through the EU's role in the world.
In the Committee on Budgets we had a number of discussions about our position with the regard to the EU's subsidising of the Nabucco gas pipeline.
I would like to emphasise that this is a point to which we in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe attach a great deal of importance.
Madam President, preparing the budget for 2010 requires a lot of courage.
Finally I would like to sincerely thank my fellow Members of the Committee on Budgets, László Surján and Vladimír Maňka, for their contributions at such a difficult time.
Faced with the worsening crisis in the European Union and the lack of any objective and effective measures at Community level to deal with it, the European Parliament, having agreed last December to a budget for 2009 which is around EUR 8 billion less than that set in the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for 2007-2013, now wants the final budget for 2010 to be closer to these upper limits.
It is a new Rapallo, and the EU does not say a word. 'My words fly up, my thoughts remain below', says the king in Hamlet. - (SK) The basic logic of the European Parliament's budget structure, as proposed by the Budget Committee rapporteur Vladimír Maňka, is sound.
Secondly, in view of the deepening economic crisis in the EU, it is essential to make even wider use of both EU budgetary resources and funding, in the form of loans and credits, from the European institutions to support development in the Member States, and the SME sector in particular.
We have EUR 144 billion in our annual budget, from which EUR 5 billion has somehow been extracted.
My specific proposal is as follows: let us turn this EUR 5 billion into EUR 50 billion without increasing the budget.
Taking the administrative part, if we include all the EU administrative expenditure hidden in the operational programmes, that gives us EUR 15 billion.
I say we could manage on EUR 5 billion, which leaves EUR 10 billion for combating the financial crisis.
I am convinced that, if the specific policies of the European Union of today were to be examined at long last, we could easily achieve a further EUR 30 billion in potential savings per year, without losing sight of our objectives.
Starting sittings on time would introduce efficiency into our work - which would be worth EUR 700 million - and the remaining 300 could be obtained from the Council, which works at least as wastefully as this Parliament. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with these guidelines for the 2010 budget, Parliament in plenary will be not only determining the guidelines for budgetary policy but also, in the absence of a motion for a resolution of the political groups on the subject, reacting to the Commission's Annual Policy Strategy.
We have a great deal more work ahead of us in this regard. (HU) Madam President, Commissioner, I welcome the fact that the report takes an unambiguous stance in favour of Community support for the Nabucco project.
The Nabucco project is the only realistic, feasible plan that is capable of mitigating Europe's unilateral dependency on Russian gas supplies.
Moreover, this matter not only concerns gas, but all the energy resources which the European Union uses.
On the other hand, I feel that we need to invest in and encourage research and development in new technologies which will enable industries to use as little energy as possible.
If we can solve this, and if we can prove to ourselves and to Europe's citizens that the European Union can deal with these concerns together, jointly, then the EU will send a clear message to its citizens that it is worth making a sacrifice, it is worth collaborating.
rapporteur. - (SK) I would like to thank everyone taking part for the inspiring discussion and also the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation.
In the coming days I will meet with representatives of the institutions in order to listen to their views before we discuss these estimates in the Committee on Budgets.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 10 March 2009.
Safeguarding security of energy supply in the European Union and also the principle of energy solidarity are the most important priorities on the EU agenda and this should be taken into consideration accordingly in the EU Budget.
I believe that by using the budgetary instruments we will be more accountable in 2010 for energy and transport networks, and the EU's internal energy networks will be well planned so that they guarantee an alternative to the countries most affected by the energy shortage.
I therefore see the task of the Parliament primarily as putting pressure in this regard on the Commission and seeing to it that the aforesaid resources are increased.
