Mr President, a letter was sent from Commissioner Patten to the President of Parliament yesterday asking Parliament to adopt, as quickly as possible, Supplementary and Amending Budget No 4 in order to allow the budgetisation of the EUR 70 million for Afghanistan.
It is an area that is important not only for ourselves here in Europe but also for the rest of the world and, in particular, for our partners in the developing countries.
As you must be aware, the Protocol we are to debate today is linked to the European Community's recently implemented ratification of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety.
The overarching purpose of this UN agreement is to establish common rules for the transboundary movement of genetically modified organisms with the objective of creating global protection of biological diversity and human health.
The European Union must fulfil its international obligations.
We must therefore incorporate the provisions of the Protocol on Biosafety into our legislation.
This proposal supplements the Community's existing regulations, particularly on the issue of the export of genetically modified organisms, so that it is in greater accordance with the provisions of the Protocol on Biosafety.
Secondly, the obligation to inform our international partners about the Community's methods, legislation and decisions concerning genetically modified organisms, as well as about any unintentional release of such organisms.
These rules are in accordance with the latest developments within Community legislation on genetically modified organisms and, in particular, with the provisions of the draft regulation on traceability and marking.
The EU has played a key role in the international negotiations right from the beginning.
We must show that there is no doubt that we shall fulfil our commitments and that we shall be able to implement the Protocol in full as soon as it comes into force.
Mr President, when the Cartagena Protocol was adopted a couple of years ago, it constituted major progress both for the European Union and the EU countries.
The Protocol is based on the precautionary principle and respects the right of states to have stricter national rules governing the trade in genetically modified products.
By adopting this legislation, the EU can become a positive global example in this area.
We in Parliament should like to cooperate closely with the Commission and the Council to ensure that these laws are made ready as swiftly as possible.
In important areas, the proposals do not go as far as the Cartagena Protocol itself, and in other areas the proposals create an unnecessary lack of clarity.
It must not be possible to export seeds or products not approved for use within the European Union.
That is important in order to prevent a lack of clarity where the matter of responsibility is concerned.
It is also more in line with what is in actual fact prescribed by the Cartagena Protocol.
In the continued negotiations within the framework of the Cartagena Protocol, the European Union must support proposals for international regulations explaining companies' legal responsibilities.
EU regulations must also make it unambiguously clear that exports to other countries must always respect the stricter rules which these countries are entitled to introduce, and this in full accordance with the Cartagena Protocol.
The Protocol aims, by applying international rules to trade in living GMOs, to prevent effects detrimental to biodiversity and to human health.
The future EU Regulation should be as strictly as possible in accordance with the Protocol's requirement, in order to avoid unnecessary bureaucracy and for uniform international standards to create legal certainty.
Moreover, the Regulation must follow the Cartagena Protocol as closely as possible in order to create greater legal certainty for international trade.
It is precisely for this reason that I consider it wrong and, indeed, damaging for us to want to use this report on the implementation of the Cartagena Protocol to intervene in ongoing legislative processes.
It was only a few weeks ago that we debated their first reading and had a plenary vote on them.
Nor initially did the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development take the right approach, in that it, in its opinion, sought to extend the derogations from the documentary and information procedures for living GMOs in transit and in closed systems to organisms genetically modified for the purposes of research and development, that is, to field trials under Part B of the Release Directive 2001/18.
I say this precisely because I am an advocate of green genetics, as I am sure will have become abundantly clear in discussions to date in this House on the Release Directive and on draft regulations, traceability and the labelling of genetically modified foodstuffs and feedingstuffs.
The second amendment has to do with a derogation from the information procedure for exports of GMOs to a third country, where this third country has already granted approval for release to another country in respect of the same GMO.
These derogations are necessary, as the use of the so-called AIA - Advanced Informed Agreement - as an information procedure in this instance offers no greater security and thus makes transborder movement unnecessarily difficult.
I hope you can follow my line of reasoning, and, of course, therefore ask you to support me with your votes.
I think it important that the developing countries in particular be protected against the harmful effects of what is often the aggressive marketing of GMOs, with their possible serious consequences for people's health, especially if we wish to conserve biological diversity in the countries concerned.
Secondly, it is important for the precautionary principle to be established.
There should be actual approval on the part of the authorities in the recipient countries, organised in such a way that the absence of a response from these authorities could not of course be interpreted as a tacit acceptance.
I think that this should apply to all movements, and not only the first, since the recipient country should have the opportunity to monitor the spread of GMO products in its territory.
Finally, I would add that it is very important for the EU countries to apply tough and uniform sanctions so as to avoid a situation in which certain countries visibly get away, or almost get away, with disregarding the legislation while others do not.
Do we, however, assume that it is sound as it stands, or would we like to use this opportunity to make an exception and be more rigorous than the Protocol?
If it is the intention to implement the Protocol, that is what we should do, and it is important, in my view, for the sake of scientific research in the EU, not to close off the EU unnecessarily in one way or another from the rest of the world or make the work unnecessarily more difficult than in the rest of the world.
We have no intention of re-entering the debate, as it has already been held, but my group will definitely be endorsing Amendments Nos 51 and 50.
I can therefore not see why we cannot do the same.
Mr President, our group fully supports the report by Mr Sjöstedt.
The report proposes stricter control of the transboundary movements of genetically modified organisms, not in order to distort trade - as has been said here - but in order to preserve biodiversity, the health of the population and the citizens' right to choose.
It also proposes that the principle of caution be duly applied - and it is not always applied as it should be - and the cooperation of the Commission and the Member States with those third countries that do not offer a sufficient guarantee to be able to decide.
The report supports international regulations and measures which are stricter in terms of responsibility and compensation for possible damages.
There is an issue which we know is controversial and which is going to cause difficulties: the export to third-world countries of genetically modified organisms which are not accepted in the European Union.
We had this same problem last year with the Directive on the marketing of safe products, or unsafe products, when the amendment we requested to prevent the exportation of organisms or products to the third world which are not accepted in the European Union was not approved.
We are asking for a restriction of confidential information, we demand more transparency in order to respect the citizens' need for information.
There are certain amendments - as Mr Sjöstedt has said - which have been signed by three political groups in this House, which we support in particular, but I am going to refer to Amendment No 54, which we feel is important since we are in contact, above all, with the people of Latin America, and which relates to the socio-economic aspects resulting from the effects of genetically modified organisms on the protection of biological diversity and their impact on indigenous and local communities.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome Mr Sjöstedt's report.
Here too, what matters must be our refusal to trample on the right of consumers around the world to decide what they eat; above all, our vote must send a clear message that we cannot export to other countries a risk that we are unwilling to take ourselves.
Mr Sjöstedt has, though, already addressed the importance of our finding a truly satisfactory solution to the issues of liability and labelling.
The argument that the development of genetically modified organisms helps solve the world food problem should very much apply in practice.
The European Community and the Member States have already made a first step in the right direction with regard to the imports and exports of GMOs, namely by endorsing the Cartagena Protocol.
I am therefore of the opinion that the present regulation governing the international trade in GMOs should be completely in line with this.
In other countries too, people have to be aware of any safety risks before they can decide to accept a batch of GMOs.
Moreover, I can imagine that those countries too set great store by freedom of choice, a value so cherished in Europe.
We must also accept that countries may take more far-reaching measures in order to achieve a higher level of protection.
Mr President, here we are once again to speak about GMOs.
We approve of the direction of the proposal for a regulation on the requirements of the Cartagena Protocol, but we would like to point out the paradoxical aspect of the process.
This agreement is designed to provide the necessary legal framework for the transboundary movement of GMOs, but, at the same time, it acknowledges the contradictory notion of unintentional transboundary movements.
The Community has decided to play a leading role in the sale of biotechnology, but the approach is entirely paradoxical: even though neither the safety nor the danger of GMOs has been established, it is already being presumed that they will be extremely successful on the market.
Yet, the Sjöstedt report reduces this room for manoeuvre.
We are therefore choosing to abstain from the vote on this report.
Mr President, I much regret that the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy did not deliver an opinion on this subject.
In fact, this process took quite a lot longer than originally planned and there would have been sufficient time for the Committee on Industry to have given an opinion.
An opinion from that committee ought to have been regarded as essential - in fact it is arguable that the Industry Committee should have been the committee responsible for this report.
This proposal will have a substantial impact on the European Union's biotechnology industry, on the EU's research programme and, in particular, on the priorities of the Sixth Framework Programme for Research.
It is essential that in our vote today we radically change the direction of this report.
This proposal does not restrict imports into the EU of GMOs for contained research, but exports of public and private GM research material to third countries will be subject to yet further and disproportionate regulation.
If we do, we will jeopardise our life science base for the future, our scientific community, the whole Lisbon strategy and Europe's future as a dynamic knowledge-based economic power in the world.
I should also very explicitly like to thank the rapporteur, not only for the volume of work, but also for the excellent work he has done, and for the political courage he has displayed in making a few observations with regard to the Commission proposal.
At the same time, we must ensure that science can carry out its research unhindered.
I would like to add to what colleagues have said in thanking him for his work.
I also welcome the fact that the Committee on the Environment expanded the regulation to cover food and feed which have been produced from or with the aid of GMOs, as well as GMOs intended for contained use.
This includes, as many colleagues have already mentioned, the right of freedom of choice.
The European Union, in cases such as this, buys local non-GM food, adhering to the principles and the rules of the recipient countries in a manner in keeping with the ethos of the Cartagena Protocol.
On the other hand, in the past two years Bolivia, Colombia, Guatemala, Nicaragua and Ecuador have all been forced to accept GM food aid even though this was contrary to their national regulations.
I welcome the committee's report which clearly allows for countries to take more proactive steps to ensure international biosafety.
With us, Mr Purvis, the environmentally responsible market economy is in safe hands.
Austria ratified the Cartagena Protocol this year, depositing the instrument of ratification with the UN in New York on 27 August.
We know that some Member States see ratification as dependent on the passing of this draft EU regulation on the implementation of this Protocol.
It would, after all, be absurd for us now to insert some provision or other, and then engage in long-winded discussions on a quite different regulation, or another directive, on traceability, labelling and liability.
If the importing country does want this notification, then this should naturally be supplied.
However, this is completely unrelated to safety, and this is why we do not actually need Amendment No 30.
It is based on two important principles, firstly the precautionary principle and secondly the principle according to which countries that want stricter rules are entitled to have them.
It is therefore crucial for the European Parliament to vote in favour of Amendment No 52, which is also supported by the rapporteur.
In this situation, I doubt if it would further the Cartagena Protocol if the European Parliament were to accept Amendment Nos 50 and 51, or if the content of these were to be complied with for, in that case, it would not be possible for the Protocol's intentions to be put into practice.
I therefore recommend that these amendments be rejected, for their purpose is to ensure that trade is impeded as little as possible.
There must be no doubt that, in Community legislation, it is the precautionary principle that applies and that it applies in full.
I support this report in its entirety.
Mr President, the regulation on the transboundary movement of genetically modified organisms is a rather surreal document.
I think that there are a number of factors that should be borne in mind where this protocol is concerned.
We require of our exporters that they respect the Cartagena Protocol and so, too, the legislation that other countries may adopt and that may go further than the European Union's.
If we did not, we should in practice be acting contrary to both the spirit and the letter of the Cartagena Protocol.
Secondly, we should be aware that the Cartagena Protocol is in the process of development.
We must therefore bear in mind that we need a policy that is far-sighted and that shows the general direction in which the EU wishes to develop the Cartagena Protocol in the future.
It is precisely this to which the regulations on liability relate.
What is at issue is Article 27 of the Cartagena Protocol, which says that we must begin to negotiate internationally concerning liability where this type of product is concerned.
When it comes to the amendments, I believe that Amendment Nos 50 and 51 seriously weaken the report by aiming to remove important areas from it.
We do not stand to gain, and nor should industry stand to gain, from rules that lead to what is in actual fact the bypassing of countries' right to say yes or no to would-be imports.
As you know, we have presented a communication on how we should make use of biotechnology.
We are actively working on our internal Community legislation in this area, partly by revising Directive 2001/18/EC on traceability and marking, and we are also working on the issue of liability for environmental damage.
It is constantly a question of striking this delicate and difficult balance between, on the one hand, exploiting the advantages of a new technique, a new technology and new knowledge in this area and, on the other, preserving biological diversity and, most importantly of all, protecting people's health.
Amendment Nos 5 and 47 deal with the important issue of capacity development in developing countries but contain no mechanisms for putting this into practice.
Amendment Nos 7 and 45 relate to the issue of environmental liability, and the Commission again believes that this proposal is not the right instrument for getting to grips with this problem, to which special international negotiations are better suited.
Further attention will be given to this issue in international negotiations.
Amendment No 22 proposes that the export of GMOs for deliberate release into the environment should be limited to organisms already authorised within the EU.
The Commission is not therefore able to accept this amendment in its present form.
Firstly, procedures are being established that do not in their entirety correspond to Article 11 of the Protocol on Biosafety and, what is worse, are inconsistent with Article 12 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law.
The proposal in the last sentence of Amendment No 60 to the effect that an exporter should be obliged to give notice of further movement of GMOs already authorised in the recipient country would not be in accordance with Community legislation governing deliberate release or with the Protocol on Biosafety per se.
This part of the amendment cannot therefore be approved.
The Commission is, on the other hand, able to accept Amendment Nos 50 and 51.
I hope that they will lead in time to a constructive exchange of opinions, but this is not the right time and place to touch on all these different aspects.
The vote will be at noon today.
The resolution passed unanimously by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy charges the Commission with now desiring to avail itself of a right which it does not possess.
As things stood, the marketing ban was meant to enter into force on 30 June 2002, and it did so.
The Commission is now planning to use a comitological measure to again, very soon - in a week or a few days, quite possibly on 24 September - put back the date of entry into force, by six months.
What you are now proposing to do is not merely contrary to the law, but is positively absurd.
You want to pass a measure with retroactive effect.
You want to pass something that enters into force retroactively, namely from 30 June.
On behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank her and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy for the resolution on the postponement of the entry into force of the ban on the marketing of cosmetics tested on animals.
The aim of this postponement is quite simply to regulate a short-term situation, from 1 July 2002 until 31 December 2002, and this corresponds to the period envisaged for conciliation.
The directive currently in force prohibits the marketing of cosmetics products containing ingredients or a combination of ingredients tested on animals after 30 June 2002.
The current conciliation procedure between the European Parliament and the Council relating to the seventh amendment aims to settle definitively the question of tests on animals in the cosmetics sector.
At the same time, there are responsibilities incumbent upon the Commission in the areas of the free circulation of goods, protection of public health and respect of international rules.
The Member States, represented in the Cosmetics Committee, will have to express their views on this proposal.
The Commission is convinced that further work, in close cooperation with the European Parliament and the Council, will finally lead to a balanced solution within the context of conciliation.
This solution should be of genuine benefit to animal welfare whilst safeguarding consumer health and our international commitments.
I will, of course, give your regards to Commissioner Liikanen.
This postponement - as recital 10 of the Directive points out - should have been the last one.
In June, the plenum of the European Parliament approved, on second reading, a modification - the seventh - of this Directive which laid down the prohibition of the marketing of products which have been tested on animals, five years after its entry into force.
Currently, as has also been said, the process of modification for this sixth modification is being implemented and we are now on the seventh modification.
This is how the conciliation debate is developing: finding a final time limit which allows the industry to adapt to the situation without harming competitiveness.
Parliament cannot therefore accept the use of such an undemocratic procedure as comitology to deal with a modification that contradicts the decision of this Parliament and of Community legislation itself.
And I also regret, Mrs Wallström, that it has been you who has had to endure this torrent of criticism of the Commission.
The severity of some of the remarks you will hear from the floor today do not reflect on her, but on the fact that she is caught in one institution which is now on a collision course with another.
They have been extended.
I would like to read to the Commissioner the fifth paragraph of the vice-chairman's letter, written on behalf of our committee, to Commissioner Liikanen.
When the implementation date for the marketing of animal-tested cosmetics was postponed to 30 June 2002 by Directive 2000/41, this postponement was to be - to quote the words of Recital 10 - for the 'last time'.
This resolution is a good illustration of Parliament trying to gain the upper hand, and the Council, quite rightly, refuses to support it.
The first is to no longer guarantee the safety of products placed on the market.
The second point is to put European products on the markets of third countries at a disadvantage by continuing to carry out tests on animals, these are currently the only fully reliable tests.
In my view, it would be more realistic to enter into dialogue with the Council, leaving behind this overly passionate - and now ideological - debate, so that we can work together to find the best solution which will be acceptable to industry, consumers and animal campaigners.
Lastly, I note that some directives are being revised for the seventh time whereas others, such as Directive 79/409 EEC, have never been revised before.
This strikes me as a dangerous situation, not only because Parliament is thus rendered a plaything, but also because the responsibility of Parliament - which has not always been undivided in this very complex matter, but has always acted responsibly - is being eroded at the very moment that we are discussing the conciliation procedure relating to the seventh amendment.
Mr President, I know that our concerns are close to the Commissioner's heart.
Mr President, I am glad that it is you who are currently in the chair, as you are also chairing the conciliation procedure on cosmetics and are as helpful a guide as one could wish to have in the conciliation procedure.
In this area, we are guided by the facts.
But what I must also say, addressing the other Members here, is that we have always reached compromises.
Of course we said, as long ago as 1993, that the industry still had almost ten years.
You will be aware that, a few months ago, Parliament, by a massive majority of nearly 500 votes, decided in favour of these marketing bans, or to put it another way, sales prohibitions for cosmetics.
If the Commission wants to take seriously its role as mediator in the conciliation procedure, then let it make a proposal that meets Parliament halfway.
So I call on you to inform the Member States that the marketing ban - and please note that it is an absolute one - has been in force since 30 June 2002, and that the Member States would be well advised to be rather more amenable, rather more flexible and a bit less obstinate in the conciliation procedure.
If the Commission wants to be helpful, Mrs Wallström, then you can tell the Member States that they have two options: one is to be helpful to the conciliation procedure, and then your cosmetics industry will get another five years added on to the five it has already got.
My request to you is really very firm, and is meant in earnest, although without it being intended to have any threatening undertone, but it would poison cooperation with Parliament and do it serious damage, if you were to have recourse to this comitological measure.
Three months after it took effect, you would again resort to a comitological measure for another two months; any person with a normal mind would find that ridiculous.
Mr President, it would be indeed tempting to enter into this debate.
This is purely a technical issue of ensuring legal clarity during the six months that the conciliation procedure is ongoing.
The Commission does not want to impinge on future decisions or the result of the conciliation procedure, but would underline that it has a responsibility to ensure the observance of rules on the free circulation of goods, the protection of public health and the respect of international rules.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
The Commission is proposing a reduction in the minimum number of compulsory scrutinies for commercial and industrial undertakings which have received an agricultural subsidy from the Community budget, for the disposal of agricultural surpluses from the internal market or for other purposes.
We have nothing against reducing this number, since the quality, the Community character, the selection process and the transparency of this process are, of course, significantly improved.
As seen in the European butter falsification case, fraud against the financial interests of the Community is indissociable from fraud against the financial interest of the Member States, against public health and against farmers, in whose name these considerable amounts of Community monies are spent, but who are often harmed by them.
We are also receiving news of glaring shortcomings in the fight being waged by the Member States against food falsification, specifically in key fields such as wine, oil, and meat and milk products.
Given these circumstances, we again insist, as we have done over the last three years, on the Commission's significantly increasing its direct action to monitor fraud and falsification in the food trade and industry.
I must highlight once again that the idea that only the falsification of milk products directly subsidised by Community funds can be considered to affect the financial interests of the Community is unacceptable.
If this approach is accepted, whereas farmers that exceed their production quota for cow's milk, respecting the financial interests of the Community, are heavily penalised, industrial concerns that sell milk products that are not made with milk would not be penalised, despite having a much more damaging effect on the Community's financial interests.
I fail to understand why any competition process to adjudicate a commercial bid for tender or even to award a scientific grant has to be public, divulging the sums and the actors involved, but when we are talking about multinationals that receive sometimes enormous sums to get rid of food products, the public does not have the right to know who is receiving funds and to what ends.
Democratising Europe and increasing the confidence of the citizens in their institutions inevitably require a more transparent attitude and equitable procedures.
I should underline that the implementation by the Member States of Regulation 4045/89 is generally satisfactory.
The Commission's proposal therefore only contains technical amendments aimed at adjusting reference amounts for inflation, as was the case with the last amendment in 1994, simplifying Member States' reporting requirements and including the possibility of reducing the number of scrutinies in certain duly motivated cases.
As I have said, the implementation by the Member States of the obligations arising from this control regulation is satisfactory, but some technical amendments are called for.
Let me stress one important factor: the regulation is a control regulation and not an anti-fraud regulation.
The EAGGF guarantee is a means of financing, for example, export refunds, interventions by the various market organisations or the co-financing of supporting and other measures for the development of rural areas outside the Objective 1 regions.
As the Commissioner has already pointed out, Regulation 4045/89 deals with retrospective checking of the business records of undertakings in receipt of agricultural aid from the Community budget for EAGGF guarantees.
Controls are important, especially in agriculture, which is a sensitive area, because the whole industry would suffer without them.
Mr President, first of all I welcome the report.
There will, however, always be a small number of people in any country who are prepared to abuse a system.
I think that in Europe we must be more specialised in what we try to do, we must be clearer and more specific in our targeting of inspections as regards the areas we inspect, because in many Member States there is no doubt that some European money is not spent very wisely, and could be much better spent.
I think it is timely and I return to my point - I still believe that the majority of contacts should be left to the Member States and that we in Europe should be more specific and more targeted in the areas that we want to see inspected.
According to your institution's information, losses of EUR 430 million were sustained in this area last year, which means that it is not we who suffered, but those sitting up there - the taxpayers of this European Union of ours.
Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, we, who talk more to the people who live alongside us, eat and drink with us and pay us taxes, cannot afford that for the future.
Here the wholehearted support for our rapporteur and for his report.
Thank you, Mr President.
However, what exactly are good agricultural practices?
What is considered normal in one country is still not normal in another country.
My final comment concerns Amendment No 10 pertaining to the publication of all data on the various destinations of agricultural funds.
As is generally known, we take the view that this should be Article 280 because it is essentially about the good management of EU funding.
It is absolutely essential that we should make these flows of funds transparent.
Agricultural policy has taken on undesirable forms over the past few years.
This could, in turn, serve as a basis for a thorough reform even before the new Member States join.
Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur, Paulo Casaca, on the quality of the work that he has submitted for our consideration, but especially on the rigorous work he has undertaken as a Member of this Parliament on accounting transparency and Community procedures.
I, like the rapporteur, acknowledge that the Commission proposal is acceptable, because it undoubtedly represents a significant increase in the quality of Community controls and procedures and demonstrates that the Commission is already committed to this procedure.
The monitoring of expenditure and of all Community funding procedures is indissolubly linked to greater transparency and equity.
It is, therefore, in these fields that the Commission and Parliament must focus their main concerns.
The Commission in particular and the European Union in general can only gain by disseminating all available information to the citizens and primarily by the public's understanding of the relationship between the main beneficiaries of common funding policies.
We look forward to seeing whether the promises made by the Commissioner responsible for agriculture in this field can be fulfilled in the short term.
I also wish to endorse the rapporteur's proposal aiming to change the legal basis from Article 37 to Article 280 of the Treaty.
This would be a major change, of great significance, which would attach the utmost priority to protecting the Community's financial interests.
I should like, finally, to remind you that fairness in international trade is an incalculable asset in the medium term and, above all, that there are no isolated or unconnected economic sectors.
The potential harm to third countries arising from protectionist policies or the absence of transparency in procedures or in the implementation of rules will eventually be suffered by those who make this form of behaviour the norm for intervention.
Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, I wish to thank all my fellow Members who have been kind enough to refer to the work that we have produced in this field and I should like to say that, on this matter, the Committee on Budgetary Control has, in fact, worked extremely well.
We have all shared the same vision, which essentially we all hold with regard to the need to protect our financial interests, and we have produced a piece of work that is essentially collective.
Having said this, I should also like to thank the Commissioner for the attention that she has paid to this report, but I must say, Commissioner, that your intervention raised some questions that I think are absolutely crucial to clarify.
It is quite clear, therefore, from the wording of Article 280 that we are not only dealing with fraud but with all and any illegal activity that threatens the financial interests of the Community.
It is, therefore, perfectly clear that this regulation falls entirely within the scope of this protection, and I must say that the overwhelming majority of processes to recover money undertaken by the Community are done carried out under this regulation.
We are now in 2002, and we still do not know which undertakings are involved and what the Commission intends to do to these undertakings.
I do not think it is satisfactory that food falsification has almost doubled between the year 2000 and 2001, which is, for example, another figure that has appeared in the press and which has not, so far, been denied by the Commission.
Because this definition has been made in the following way: the falsification of milk products is only considered to be a problem for the Community if the perpetrators are in receipt of a Community subsidy.
This is completely absurd, Commissioner, for the following reasons: milk producers exceed their reference quantity - in other words, they are producing milk - and this milk has not been subsidised - the Community allows the industry that buys their milk to immediately enforce preventive retention, in other words, even before a quota surplus is observed, a preventive retention of money is made to pay a fine on the quota.
In other words, even if these farmers have committed no offence, have not even increased their milk production, money is nonetheless taken from them.
This is the Community doctrine, however, and has been the doctrine advocated in the Committee on Budgetary Control, year after year, and is still being advocated.
Firstly, Regulation 4045/89 is a control regulation and not an anti-fraud regulation.
Therefore, Article 37 is the most appropriate legal basis.
Secondly, these are technical amendments and there is no justification for making substantive changes at this point.
Amendments 2, 3 and 4 expand on or slightly strengthen the existing provisions and are acceptable to the Commission.
Concerning Amendment 5, I have to stress that, as Member States are already required to send the Commission a list of beneficiaries, this part of the amendment is unnecessary.
We can accept Amendment 6, even though it seems to be superfluous.
Amendment 7 exceeds the nature of a technical amendment, would mark a major change in the relations between Member States and could also have major legal effects.
The Commission is not opposed to the amendment in itself but, in view of the legal and political issues, it is a question that needs to be taken up at horizontal level, and that is why the Commission rejects it.
On Amendments 8 and 9, the Committee on Budgetary Control wants Commission staff to carry out a certain number of controls each year, one in each Member State, plus one multinational control.
These Amendments 8 and 9 would drastically limit the effectiveness of any risk analysis because of the amount of work that would have to be done every year.
The programme may be decided up to 12 months before the beginning of some scrutinies, and giving a beneficiary 12 months' notice of a control cannot be good control practice.
In any event, Regulation 4045/89 forbids the use of nominative data in this way.
With regard to the specific case concerning butter, I cannot supply all the details on that.
We will have to come back to the other more general political questions, because I would like to restrict my comments to the proposal before us.
The question of the legal basis - about Article 37 or Article 280, as proposed by us - is of course not just an academic one.
That is what we want, and we owe it to our citizens.
When I said earlier that our present systems of export refunds cannot be made proof against fraud, you on the Commission ought really to have pricked up your ears, if you are really serious about protecting the tax revenues that we raise in the Member States.
On that, I must say that our budget is so lacking in transparency that Parliament first has to coax these export refunds, which do not even have a credit line of their own, out of it!
Commissioner, we will try to get one in the 2003 budget year, so that we can get a slightly clearer view of things.
To repeat: the policy you are at present pursuing runs directly counter to our own interests.
I do not know how our fellow-citizens of the EU understand your utterances on the subject.
In the UK this weekend there was a huge rally - Liberty and Livelihood - where thousands of people gathered in London to protest at various problems relating to the countryside.
These are key areas.
Why is it that, while I can go to a website and find out where every single euro in relation to regional policy and Structural Funds is paid out in my area, I cannot do the same in relation to the common agricultural policy?
That is the relationship the taxpayers of Europe need to have with the recipients of this funding: in that way perhaps we will be able to see how much Prince Charles, the Queen and the rest of the royal family receive in relation to subsidies granted under the common agricultural policy.
After all, we want to gain a grip on agricultural policy, the export subsidies, and the way in which these subsidies are distributed.
There are a few countries that only have sugar to export, and we have managed to hold on to these wretched subsidies that we grant to our sugar barons thanks to our Member States.
As democratic representatives of our citizens, we would like a grip on these subsidies.
Finally, I should like to point out that with regard to agricultural subsidies, export subsidies for live animals too are a disgrace and unacceptable to our public opinion.
I should therefore like to concur with our fellow MEPs in their plea.
I myself was a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control for a while, and I have great respect for my fellow MEPs and for their reports.
The debate relates to the environment, of course, so I am tempted to enter into all of these discussions with my own personal views.
I must say I also share a lot of your concerns and views on how to strengthen these rules and ensure that there is budgetary follow-up of the reforms.
I cannot say that I was always proud to represent the European Union when it comes to the issue of agricultural subsidies, but we can certainly say that we are taking a step in the right direction with our review of the common agricultural policy.
We also know that we have to improve land use management via increased rural development and so on.
We have taken, as I have said, a step in right direction with the review of the common agricultural policy.
I also think that some of the measures proposed in the review, including auditing systems etc., and linking the economic support so as to make cross-compliance necessary, could also help in improving animal welfare, as well as other factors in the common agricultural policy.
I can assure you and the rest of the House that the Bureau as a whole is making an effort, now that the Rules of Procedure have changed, to ensure that debates in Plenary are exactly as you said.
Thank you, Mr van Hulten.
The debate is closed.
Last year, Parliament proposed in a resolution to extend this period to 36 months.
Finally, two new items relating to the environment are included in the statistics on industrial firms.
Structural business statistics on credit institutions, pension funds and other businesses in the financial services sector are necessary in order to evaluate the single financial market, back up macroeconomic statistics and keep the stability of the EU's financial system under observation.
I am glad that, despite what we term the summer recess, Parliament has allowed me to present my report for Second Reading just three months later.
The draft regulation before us aims to improve the quality of these statistics, firstly by cutting the time period for the transmission of the main aggregates of the quarterly national accounts from four months to seventy days; secondly, by suspending various derogations granted to the Member States; and thirdly by having the employment data transmitted in one unit, namely the hours worked.
These changes are necessary if we are to have the most exact statistics on GDP at our disposal without delay.
White van man, as we know in the UK, is a person who despite being in a Ford Transit van thinks he is Michael Schumacher.
I know that this is a uniquely British thing, as here on the continent - and particularly in Italy - every driver thinks he is Michael Schumacher.
This report is largely technical and concerns how we test the CO2 produced from these vehicles.
I have managed to secure exemptions for small manufacturers of specialist vehicles, in particular ambulances, and have also introduced the concept of families of vehicles in order to group together the thousands of vehicles produced in different derivatives.
It gives me great pleasure, as a fellow Scot, to welcome to the European Parliament Sir David Steel, President of the Scottish Parliament, who has taken his seat in the distinguished visitors' gallery.
Sir David will be holding a number of meetings in Parliament and will be observing the proceedings.
I would say to those who voted against it and to the members of the PPE-DE Group that I hope they realise they have just voted against greater cooperation in matters of asylum in the European Union; they have voted against sharing best practice in measures as we move towards a common asylum policy; they have voted against looking at good ideas and sharing those ideas ... (Applause from the left) They have voted against measures to make certain that we are absolutely clear that people do not abuse the asylum system for terrorist purposes.
The accumulated fraud with EU funds gives cause for concern, as do a number of situations in the institutions - I wish briefly to refer here to the Court of Auditors' most recent special report on the support system for oilseeds.
The Freedom Party delegation has therefore voted in favour of the report.
The reason why we are not opposed to this draft text is so that workers who so desire can leave employment before retirement age.
Several aspects of the draft text are, nonetheless, unacceptable.
This means there will be additional work for those who remain, whereas the report acknowledges that 1 254 positions need to be filled.
All this is unacceptable in a context of unemployment and job insecurity.
I voted for the Bakopoulos report to ensure our seas are safe and that ship pollution is prevented.
The new committee will establish greater transparency, implement Community policies more coherently, reduce bureaucracy and minimise costs.
This is why I agree entirely with the proposal to create a single maritime safety Committee, thereby replacing national committees.
In order to secure an EU type approval for light commercial vehicles, the Directive will include a requirement that in the future vehicles be tested for carbon dioxide emissions and fuel consumption.
Member States will not be able to allow the registration and entry into service of light commercial vehicles if they do not have a valid certificate of conformity for this type of approval after 1 January 2007.
This economic internalisation, which is already taking place in the industry and energy sectors, specifically under the European Directive on Emissions Trading (on the first reading of which this Parliament will shortly vote), must be extended to all economic sectors and to all activities.
I therefore welcome this proposal for a directive targeting N1 vehicles and I welcome Mr Goodwill's report.
Travel agencies and tour operators outside the EU will have to pay VAT when they provide services to European customers, and conversely, European travel agencies will be exempt from VAT when they provide services to customers residing outside the EU, thereby re-establishing healthy and fair competition in the European internal market.
We voted against this report which again proposes, on the pretext of 'combating terrorism', to 'facilitate co-operation between the police and judicial authorities in the fight against terrorism'.
In reality, 'combating terrorism' is only being used here as a pretext to further strengthen Europe's security measures, whilst once again highlighting the fact that it is beyond the control of the population.
I have voted in favour of these two proposals because they form part of a coherent set of horizontal measures that will ensure the correct and effective implementation of the measures that the EP has already adopted in the fight against terrorism (the framework decision on combating terrorism and the framework decision on the European arrest warrant).
I am, therefore, pleased to see that the European Union has made considerable progress since the terrible events of 11 September 2001, on exchanging information, on police and judicial coordination in the fight against terrorism and on its legislative framework.
Any fight that disregards these priorities would represent an unjustifiable concession to barbarity and an unacceptable rejection of the values of our civilisation.
This initiative by Spain, within the Council, is part of the process of strengthening supranational police and judicial mechanisms - specifically at EU level - in the name of the so-called 'fight against terrorism'.
It is worth emphasising that the proposal for the creation of a 'mechanism for evaluating the legal systems and their implementation at national level in the fight against terrorism' bypasses and breaches the legal base that currently exists in the Treaties.
Amongst other aspects, these initiatives are part of a security shift that increasingly threatens fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees.
Although the rapporteur has tabled proposals for amendments that seek to introduce assurances and safeguards for fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees - for example, for the transfer and management of personal information and data (it should be noted that Europol is bound by agreements with third countries, not least with the USA) - this does not change the general tenor of the initiatives that have been proposed.
I have voted against the report by Mr Galeote in the conviction that the new Rules of this Parliament have been used in an improper manner by the big political groups of this House.
While the British Conservative Delegation are determined to play a full part in the fight against terrorism and fully support enhanced cooperation between the police and other law enforcement organisations in the various Member States, we cannot support moves towards the extension of Eurojust.
The Delegation supports the initiatives in the recent Kirkhope report on the establishment of Joint Investigation teams in which police forces combine intelligence in the fight against major criminals.
This initiative has yet to be implemented in the Member States.
That is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the texts in question. . (NL) Authoritarian governments have always been characterised by the notion that they can best survive criticism on their policy by restricting their citizens in their freedom of information exchange, opinion, organisation and travel.
My favourable vote also reflects my support for the main amendments tabled by the rapporteur: the stipulation that information transferred under this decision should be limited to criminal investigations of terrorist activities; the call for each Member State to appoint a Eurojust correspondent responsible for issues involving terrorism, rather than giving the Member States the option to appoint another competent authority and the call for Member States to set up joint investigation teams to combat terrorism whenever closer cooperation is needed and, specifically, for complex cases with transnational implications.
This is a matter for individual Member States and the present system of training the Judiciary is unique and particular to each of those States.
This network, comprising national schools and institutions of the Member States responsible for further judicial training, has already existed informally since October 2000, but does not have legal personality.
This limitation means that it cannot receive funding from Community or Member States' budgets, which will change if this French initiative is adopted, as it will then be eligible for funding under the EU's general budget.
In short, this is yet another boost to improving our knowledge of the judicial and legal systems of the Member States and of the legal instruments on which judicial cooperation in the EU is based.
We have just received the enormous document (approximately 200 pages) of the draft regulation laying down health rules concerning products intended for animal feed.
This formula would be much more flexible, and would leave the Member States much more room for manoeuvre.
The Commission proposal on the transboundary movement of genetically modified organisms unfortunately does less than the Cartagena Protocol which it is supposed to apply.
Three: full responsibility for the movement of banned genetically modified organisms should rest with the country of export; it should not be shifted on to the country of import.
It is important for example, that the citizens' fundamental right to free choice in the field of GMOs is recognised and that account is taken of the precautionary principle, in addition to the need to protect the environment and human health.
We shall vote in favour of the amendments advocated by Jonas Sjöstedt on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on transboundary movements of GMOs.
The draft text presented by the Commission does not go as far as the Cartagena Protocol of 29 January 2000 on the prevention of biotechnology risks; it does not take sufficient account of the precautionary principle included in the Rio Declaration on the environment nor of current debates in Europe itself on these questions.
The European Union must use its influence at international level, not to dilute the dynamic released by Cartagena, but to strengthen it.
In May 2000, the European Union and its Member States signed the Cartagena Protocol on the prevention of biotechnological risks in the fields of the safe transfer, handling and use of GMOs.
The rapporteur has improved the proposal for a regulation, and his proposal to ban GMO exports that have not been authorised in the European Union itself warrants particular applause.
The provisions of the regulation should be applied, irrespective of when the Cartagena Protocol comes into force.
In paragraph 1 of the resolution, it called on 'the Commission and Member States to prioritise the construction of a common immigration policy in order to relieve pressure on the asylum system'.
Thus, the first solution proposed by the left-wing Members of the House to reduce the number of bogus asylum seekers was to open up our borders more, and to take in such people as legal immigrants!
In paragraph 3, the Commission was called upon to ensure that the 'best practice' is followed in the field of asylum which 'will be based first and foremost and above all (take good note of that expression: above all) on ensuring Member States' fulfilment of their international protection obligations'.
In 1999, the Tampere Summit adopted 2004 as a target date for the implementation of the common asylum policy.
The number of texts and reports is growing, each proposing a new phase in the harmonisation of asylum law, but, at the end of the day, no consensus has been reached and no progress has been made!
Only two projects have been approved so far, but even this was done reluctantly.
The EU Member States have only managed to agree on the smallest issue and that is not to impose sanctions on countries producing illegal immigrants.
Brussels is seeking to 'communitise' everything, but it is difficult for Member States to lose part of their sovereignty. (Explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (NL) During the Cold War, refugees from the East were very welcome in Western Europe.
EU Member States tend to prescribe upper limits to the number of refugees they will allow in their countries, and set their reception levels lower than those of the neighbouring states.
I reject the main idea, but support the proposals tabled by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs not to extradite anyone to countries where capital punishment is a threat, possibly to deny refugee status only to war criminals, and to take account of the increasing number of female asylum seekers.
The basic idea put forward in the report, that all Member States should establish compensation schemes for victims of crime who cannot obtain compensation from the offenders responsible for the crime or through any means, including victims of terrorism, is a good one, because the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crimes, which has applied since 1988, has not been signed by all the Member States and, even where it has, it does not allow the victims of violent crimes to apply for state compensation.
I have already said in my explanation of vote on the Evans report that, in the area of asylum, the primary duty of responsible governments today is to ensure that an influx of refugees does not upset the balance in our countries.
Before extending definitions in this way, we would like our governments to consider carefully the millions of people who are likely to call on this new right, and to consider the financial and social costs that, in such cases, their initiatives could inflict on our countries.
My vote in favour of this report reflects first my applause for the Green Paper on 'Compensation to crime victims', presented in May of this year by the Commission, which has provided a considerable boost in this sensitive field, attempting to lay down minimum common standards for the compensation of victims, that are respected throughout EU territory and, whenever possible, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity where third countries are concerned.
I also agree with the rapporteur's recommendation for the creation of a European victim support freephone line which would operate around the clock in all the official languages of the European Union.
Together we will win the battle against terrorism.
Mr President, might I draw attention to Item 12 of the Minutes, dealing with one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
I therefore think that this should have been recorded as a point of order, while the point that I was making should be recorded in the Minutes.
Mr President, we have never done anything like this before and I welcome the opportunity to open this debate.
What we are trying to gain from this session is a real dialogue, mainly with the Commission, but also with the Council, to seek guidance on how we should vote next week and to ask questions concerning events since the preliminary draft budget (PDB) was first presented.
Since the PDB several things have happened, including the Council's vote on its draft budget which is what we vote upon.
As always, the amendments in front of us always exceed the amount of money that is available.
We also have the situation of a more precise legislative programme since the PDB and we need to assess the changes.
For instance, we still have no agreement with the Council or the Commission on how the EUR 27 million in Category 2 for the fisheries reconstruction programme will be found.
With those few opening remarks, let me thank not only the Commission in general but also the individual Commissioners who are going to contribute to this debate.
For us, it has been the overarching objective to try to reform the European Parliament's budgetary work, especially with a view to next year's completely new method of 'Activity Based Budgeting'.
In this context, it has been important also to be able to renew the debate itself, which is perhaps the most visible part of Parliament's budgetary work.
This reform also means that we have endeavoured to increase the committees' participation in the work.
I have been round practically all the committees and discussed budget issues with them, and we are now also encouraging the committees to take an active part in today's debate.
Against this background, I welcome the way in which the Commission, the Council, a majority of Commissioners and the Danish Finance Minister in his Presidency role have taken part in the debate, and I hope that Parliament's own representatives will also make substantial efforts to ensure that we obtain a more exciting and constructive debate than has been provided by the fairly predictable monologues delivered up until now.
The EU's budgetary system suffers from serious defects, especially a lack of flexibility.
I believe that both Parliament and, certainly, the public have difficulty understanding why it is completely impossible to find resources for the proactive part of agricultural policy known as rural development, while billions are allocated to the other dimension of agricultural policy.
Knowing, as we did, that there were resources elsewhere that were not being used, it has also been difficult for us to refuse the administrative expenditure needed for enlargement and to try to find a way of funding this expenditure without making use of the flexibility instrument.
They should definitely not be enshrined in the Treaty, and Parliament should self-evidently have the same right of co-decision in agricultural policy as we have in other areas.
I should also like to thank the Danish Presidency for its extremely sober and constructive approach so far.
We reached some sound agreements in July, and we had a stimulating three-way meeting yesterday about how we might solve the problem of the floods.
I should like to round off this introduction by appealing for the same constructive approach when it comes to solving the major outstanding problems, above all in category 4, concerned with external expenditure.
Parliament will protest at the fact that, without new resources being supplied, we are constantly adding new expenditure in relation, for example, to Afghanistan and the Global AIDS and Health Fund, over and above the contributions we have already made in relation to the Balkans, Kosovo, Serbia etc.
That, I believe, will be one of the main points in Parliament's criticism of both the Commission's and the Council's handling of the budget.
Mr President, the EU's administrative budget has for a long time been one of the EU's major budgetary problems.
This year's work is aimed at trying to find long-term solutions to these problems.
Now that we have reduced this deficit and in actual fact anticipate a slight surplus for next year, we note that, in a long-term perspective, it is, in all likelihood, specifically 2003 that will be the big problem.
In accordance with the European Council decision in Berlin in 1999, we have the opportunity of using the 'flexibility instrument' and in that way contributing extra funds.
In its preliminary draft budget, the Commission proposed this arrangement for category 5.
There were obviously reasons for this, not least the fact that time is short and that there is a huge amount to be done.
There are six months to go before it will be possible for 147 observers from future Member States to be present here in the European Parliament.
The necessary reforms, especially here in Parliament, are in full swing, and it will be possible for them to take place within the set budget framework and within the time we have available to us.
As a first step in the right direction, Parliament and the Council have agreed on the broad lines of the administrative budget.
That is something which is completely new in the budget procedure but which is an advantage as the work continues.
In short, it is a question of trying to get as much as possible done in this year's budget so as to be able to create as much scope as possible in the 2003 budget when enlargement is just one year ahead of us.
All - and I emphasise all - the institutions, including Parliament and the Council, have been encouraged to take an active part in this area.
The reactions I have received have been positive so far.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as President of the Council, I am delighted to have been given the opportunity to attend this debate, in which Commission representatives are taking part, on the European Parliament's 2003 budget.
I am convinced that today's debate will give Parliament and the Commission the opportunity to touch upon many important subjects relating to the 2003 budget.
The Council, Parliament and the Commission are agreed that what is at issue here are political priorities to be adopted by the EU.
For that reason, the budget procedure has until now also been characterised by a desire to find practical solutions and reach compromises.
I am convinced that this fruitful cooperation can continue in the autumn, and I shall do everything in my power to help bring this about.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, honourable Members, the 2003 budget is probably the last budget to apply to 15 Member States of the EU.
The budget year 2003 will, then, have further challenges in store not only for the candidate states, but also for all the European institutions that need to prepare themselves.
These are also reflected in the 2003 budget, in Commissioner Vitorino's budget for measures in the areas of internal affairs and justice policy or - and in many and varied ways - in the budget for foreign policy measures.
Your House has tabled several motions relating to the security of our external representation, but of course also to all the aid given to Afghanistan.
The Commission has decided on sustainable development as the third focus of its attention.
Parliament has had the consolidated revenue and expenditure accounts since 1 May.
The Member States also have their part to play in this, and there is a need for good cooperation in this area.
The Commission informs Parliament and the Council of the state of the accounts on a weekly basis.
We should also bear in mind the subsidiarity issue, on which subject I have to say that the Commission cannot work miracles; if political objectives are to become reality, and of course if expenditure programmes are to be implemented, it needs the staff to do it.
It is rather an imaginative way of reshaping our political debate on the priorities for the budget for 2003.
The first refers to how we handle outstanding budget commitments, which now amount to something around EUR 110 billion.
In a joint declaration which we signed with the Council on 14 December 2000 we wanted to see these commitments reduced to normal levels by, if I remember correctly, December 2003.
Secondly, in terms of Commission reform, which was also included in this joint declaration back in December 2000, we wanted to have a range of knowledge about how to achieve the reform.
Thirdly, in relation to this there is the specific case concerning the Chief Accountant, where we have put a small amount of Commission travel expenses in reserve.
We also want to know exactly what the Commission's response to those allegations is.
Fourthly, we wish to deal with the Council in terms of foreign policy and security.
This is because we have had amounts put in the budget for 2003, but before approving them we want to enhance the position of the other institutions - Parliament as well as the Commission - in knowing how policies will be implemented.
Fifthly, we have consistently said as a Parliament that we do not want to see expenditure on Afghanistan made to the detriment of other spending priorities in category 4.
We are therefore suggesting that the flexibility instrument could be used for this purpose as well as perhaps dealing with that commitment made in the 2002 budget to deal with the EUR 27 million on fleet restructuring.
Lastly, we have taken a slight departure from the norm and are recommending that the 220 Council posts are not approved until we have received a satisfactory explanation on a number of points which are listed in our amendment.
This is about accountability and the proper functioning of democracy, where we as a Parliament are taking our responsibility in the budgetary process, using the reserve on a judicious basis to get the information that we need to be able to carry out our job effectively.
Mr President, Commissioners, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me also, on behalf of my group, in this new sort of debate - not indeed the only one, as we will be having another in October on the substantive votes - set before you our position, our approach and our concerns.
This must also show itself in the budget.
I speak, of course, with particular reference to the Structural Funds, but I also have others in mind.
It must be possible to guarantee greater efficiency, and the faster and more efficient distribution of resources.
We have proposed an efficiency force to shed light on all the bureaucratic apparatus, enabling us to act quicker and get money to where it is really needed so that people gasping for breath in the tangled bureaucratic undergrowth do not sink back in despair and say they can do no more.
Thank God our staff are relatively young, but we have to finance all their pensions out of the budget.
If we want to plan for the long term here, we have to make an early start on ensuring that funds are put by for this purpose so that we can give help in this area, or else we will run into major problems, at any rate further down the road.
That is something we have to get to grips with.
We must help small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union to have their share of economic development.
Other amendments have been tabled, but I wanted to set out the focal points of our approach.
European Union budgetary policy is overshadowed by the unsatisfactory way in which the budget itself has been implemented.
The Commission has suggested the blame lies with the Member States.
I would similarly like to ask the Council what it intends to do to simplify the implementation of the Structural Funds, pre-accession aid and other long-term programmes, in order to avoid the build-up of such enormous outstanding sums in the future, and, indeed, reduce them.
The payment appropriations in next year's budget stand at just 1.01% of GNP, which is to say EUR 5.9 billion below the financial perspectives.
Our group supports preparations for enlargement to the east.
For this reason, the administrative process must be reformed and made more flexible, so that human resources may be deployed more swiftly and appropriately than is the case at present.
Moreover, we believe it is important that administrative accountability is also reflected in greater efficiency in such areas as making payments.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the biggest problem with the budget is the outstanding RAL appropriations.
Today, however, that inefficiency is visible in the growth of RALs, as certain other groups have remarked here.
Our group agrees that enlargement should become the budget's main area of focus.
In July's conciliation process the Council promised to produce a legal basis for the early retirement of twenty or thirty officials on temporary contracts employed by Parliament's political groups.
However, losses cannot be overcompensated for, and, for that reason, many members of our group feel it is important that the new fisheries programme proposed by the Commission be approved.
Some of our group wish the Commission every success in its reform of the fisheries and agricultural programmes, and some do not.
Opinions differ in our group on the question of whether it is necessary to support European-wide political parties out of the EU budget.
We are pleased, in the main, that the Commission has proposed reducing the amount spent on propaganda in the wake of the Prince programme.
The programme was agreed upon without any formal settlement.
Mr President, the Commission formulated three priorities in its Annual Policy Strategy: enlargement, security and sustainable development.
The Commission has now requested 500 additional positions to guarantee the smooth running of the enlargement.
In principle, I can understand this, for if 10 new countries join, this will result in more work.
Another question concerns the 700 positions which we rubberstamped in previous years.
If I understand it correctly, six candidate countries risk receiving less funding from Brussels in 2004 than they did in 2003, and four countries are even at risk of becoming net contributors.
Is it therefore possible - and this is a proposal on our part and I would appreciate a response - to see if these candidate countries could take their projects through the entire procedure as early as 2003?
Thank you, Mr President.
I have been a Member of the European Parliament for 23 years - the first 10 in the Committee on Budgets - and I am from time to time a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
The excessively high rate of unemployment among young people is a particular problem, and there is urgent need for special programmes to reduce it.
The first debate will be on the Structural Funds, particularly with regard to the pre-accession phase and payments, including the ISPA.
With regard to the 2003 budget, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism proposes increasing the maximum limit for payment appropriations, because in accordance with the amount corresponding this year to the multi-annual programming - EUR 27.5 billion - EUR 8.1 billion must be used for the RALs accumulated between 1994 and 1995, which is EUR 2.9 billion more than was forecast.
Great effort will be required in terms of cooperation and control between Parliament, the Commission and the Member States.
With regard to the pre-accession structural instrument, the ISPA, we must take up the Commission's proposal, which means increasing the appropriations for this programme during the 2003 financial year to EUR 1 117 million in commitment appropriations and EUR 750 million in payment appropriations.
It makes very little sense, when enlargement is about to take place, to weaken a useful and, above all, necessary instrument.
In the budget we oppose the reduction in payment appropriations which the Council has made in relation to the Commission's proposal on FEDER programmes and various Community initiatives.
On behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I must express our concerns regarding the implementation of the budget for the European Social Fund.
The Social Fund plays an important role, of course, in the development of poor regions and of the European Employment Strategy, and it will indeed also be very important in connection with the forthcoming enlargement.
Now, Commissioner Barnier has just presented a communication on developments concerning the implementation of the Structural Funds, providing us with a number of explanations as to why larger outstanding commitments than expected are accumulating, and that is something for which we should thank the Commissioner.
There are of course new rules and procedures for the 2000-2006 programming which are to be incorporated, and the Member States have apparently overestimated the ability to implement the projects in the first few years.
We are also told that the rules and procedures are too complicated, and it was agreed in July that Parliament and the Council should simplify matters in order to encourage utilisation of the funds.
Thank you, Mr President.
On 17 July, the Committee on Budgets clarified the situation regarding management.
I proposed to all the Ministers, in the presence of the chairs of the parliamentary committees concerned, to begin working on this issue on 7 October, and we provided a working document for immediate simplification within the framework of the Berlin regulation and by using or seeking out all the possible ways to enable simplification.
As for the 2003 budget, I am certain that the ceiling of the financial perspectives will not be exceeded.
There is a risk that the needs for 2003 will be higher for two lines.
The first line is the completion of the 1994-1999 programmes.
This year, the Member States are taking their time in forwarding their requests for final payment.
It is likely therefore that we will have underspending in 2002 and an increased need in 2003, which should however be able to be covered by carrying sums over.
After two years of underspending in 2002 and 2001, the measures taken to speed up the programmes' closure are bearing fruit.
But it also creates a gap: N+2 leaves two years between commitment and payment.
These are the points that I wanted to clarify, Mr President, at the beginning of this discussion.
Mr President, what worries us most is the low degree of implementation of Structural Fund payments.
It is obvious that if the countries or regions which have not fulfilled the N+2 clause see that the Funds are returned to them, they will have no incentive to change their attitude.
The States and regions which do not use the N+2 must definitively lose their contributions, in favour of those other bodies, regions or States which are going to use them.
In this respect, I welcome Commissioner Barnier's efforts to put things in order.
Mr President, for us the problem of implementation should be a shared problem, and I personally cannot accept what Commissioner Barnier has said, when he simply washes his hands of the problems of four or five Member States.
The problem is a shared one, the solution is a shared one.
The fact that we have EUR 100 billion of outstanding commitments should be a problem for all the Community's institutions.
We cannot accept the premise that it is the sole responsibility of those Member States.
We certainly want to see action by all the institutions, including the Commission, and this Parliament in particular, as a matter of urgency.
In particular, we want to see a reinstatement of the cuts of EUR 1 million proposed by the Commission in overland transport safety.
It is absurd to propose to cut accidents on the roads by 50% in 8 years and yet cut the budget in that key area.
Thirdly, we want to see a reinstatement of the 20% reduction proposed by the Commission in sustainable mobility.
Again we talk a lot about the environment, but the very programmes that will help protect and preserve it will be cut if the Commissioner has his way.
Mr President, Commissioner, as many speakers have stated here already, the latest budget monitoring figures also show that the implementation of the Structural Fund programmes and payments made with regard to the programmes have progressed far too slowly.
On the other hand, regional differences have also grown.
It is therefore very clear that regional aid will be needed in the future too, as Mr Puerta suggested.
The implementation thus far of both last year's and this year's budgets have led to a considerable increase in unpaid amounts of money.
Our group is very worried about the possible negative impact that will have on next year's budget and the Union's structural policy both later on and in general.
This is a very tough question too because enlargement is just around the corner and we need to find remedies for these problems, with more in the way of results and less bureaucracy.
Mr President, whilst the Budget Memorandum for 2003 still leaves many questions open, the economic situation in 2002 is becoming clearer and it is easier to get an overall view of it.
The 2003 budget will instead be measured against the yardstick of seriousness, transparency and honesty.
I can recall that Parliament was always more than merely critical of the annual accumulation of financial resources from the Structural Funds.
The Commission's non-existent policy on non-existent Structural Funds does little to promote a feeling of belonging on the part of the European Union's citizens.
The winter months are going to be the most difficult in economic terms for a long time.
Mr President, I do indeed believe that this debate is extremely useful inasmuch as it allows us to discuss a number of difficult issues, including funds, in a general context.
I also think that too much blame is being apportioned to the Commission and not enough to the Member States.
I myself come from a Member State which is very much to blame for not spending the necessary resources properly and promptly, and I hope that this situation will improve in future.
I would ask the Commission to examine whether this can really be done in this way, for this is an inherent problem.
Mr President, I would like to draw attention to a number of budget lines that are dealt with in the Committee on Employment.
First of all the three lines dealing with social dialogue - B3-4002, B3-4003 and B3-4310.
We are looking to increase the amounts on each of these lines, largely because of enlargement.
Secondly, I should like to mention B3-4314.
This concerns health and safety improvements in small- and medium-sized enterprises.
I hope that will come forward in the coming year and give us a permanent legal base.
My final point concerns B3-4106.
The removal of this Fund would penalise the countries which have managed to comply with the requirements for joining the euro and would simply be intolerable.
Personally, I am allergic to the reserves pill, which often does more harm than the original problem, and the idea that some political groups have of putting some of the Commissioners' expenditure in reserve is downright ridiculous.
Commissioner Barnier has already told us what he intends to do and we are waiting for further clarification.
Nevertheless, I would also like to hear what the Council has to say, if possible, and I call for greater attention to be paid to some of the Member States, who are sleeping the sleep of the unrighteous where this whole issue is concerned.
Mr President, I would like to take a few moments to confirm what I said earlier and provide some more detailed answers.
I myself am greatly concerned, Mr Watts, by the underspending.
For example, the Member States gave priority, at the beginning of this programming period, not to new programmes and to new projects, but to old programmes and to old projects which should have been completed.
They therefore concentrated their efforts on winding up old programmes and they took longer to prepare the new programmes.
We should also mention the new payment system.
There is an additionality rule whereby the Member States must provide part of the funding and some of them probably found it necessary to stretch their budgetary expenditure further.
With regard to the RALs, once again, I think that it is usual to have approximately two years of programming since this is in line with the N+2 rule - so that makes about seven years of programming and two additional years in total.
When you look at the RALs, at the beginning of the year for example, you do not gain an accurate picture because, although almost 99% of expenditure was committed in April, the payments can be made up to the end of the year.
As I am speaking to you today, namely 24 September, the RALs for the old and new programmes amount to approximately 50 billion, which is an accurate reflection of these two years of programming.
For all sorts of political and personal reasons, I am working to ensure that the Member States, both present and future, use the Structural Funds in the appropriate manner, with respect for sustainable development.
The ball is in the European Parliament's court.
Lastly, I would like to point out that, with regard to all these problems, and I am coming to my conclusion, Mr President, the Commission is not shirking its responsibilities.
I would also like to emphasise how the useful role played by the Structural Funds in improving governance on the ground, in the regions and in each country which is in need of them, including the oldest countries of the Union.
The Structural Funds do not just represent money, they also represent real progress in terms of public administration, governance and, ultimately, democracy.
My Committee also supports efforts to integrate third-country nationals who are long-term residents here by establishing a pilot project.
This is something I particularly want to underline, as we have greater responsibilities towards the EU's citizens in view of 11 September.
It is with this in mind that I hope that my Committee will be backed up by Parliament's, the Commission's and the Council's own proposals.
Mr President, the culture, education and information element of the budget accounts for barely half of 1% of the EU budget, compared with 50% of the budget that goes on agriculture.
So I will remind Parliament and the Commissioners, as culture spokesmen do every year, that perhaps we have not got our priorities quite right.
To turn to the issue of information: this should be a shared responsibility between the institutions and the Member States.
We wonder whether the Member States have got their responsibilities quite right in this respect.
Certain members of staff make great efforts in this respect, and we would also pay tribute to Commissioner Vitorino for the work and the vision that he is putting into this.
The citizens of the European Union do not have enough information.
I therefore make no apology when I point out that the proposed budget for information policy on the various B3 lines is less than EUR 100 milion or less than 37 cents per citizen per annum.
I hope the Commission and the budget rapporteur will look very closely at their pleas and make sure that Euronews is a success.
Mr President, I want first to congratulate both rapporteurs on the great and pioneering work they have done and are continuing to do.
The draft budget as it relates to the areas for which the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is responsible is for the most part acceptable.
When it comes to the provision of information on the common currency, this ought as far as possible to be focused on those countries that are members of the EU but that have still not introduced the euro.
The provision of information to the candidate countries should be financed via budget lines dedicated to enlargement.
In the case of the budget line which relates to the EU's industrial competitiveness and for which the Commission has proposed a twelve per cent increase in the appropriations, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs proposes a change to the justification with a view to producing an assessment of the results generated by this budget line during the almost ten years of its existence.
Regarding programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, I note that the Commission's draft budget has included the change proposed last year by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs concerning access to venture capital.
I welcome the fact that the Council, unlike in previous years, has not proposed any cut-back in the appropriations for the development of the EU's internal market.
In this context, I want also to draw attention to the importance of having adequate resources for areas relating to the internal market, especially the implementation of the action plan for financial services.
Once again, the LIBE Committee proposes the increase of the budget lines thought to be politically more important.
The PDB was prepared by the Commission based not only on political considerations, but also on the financial framework approved for each of the programmes, or on past experience in the running of the preparatory actions or pilot projects.
Moreover, it presents a difficult balance between the human resources needed to ensure the correct management of the credits and those needed to ensure the creation of this area from a legal point of view.
Nevertheless, I will make a plea for careful examination, bearing in mind such difficulties as human resources.
In terms of information and communication to the public in general, over the last few years we have seen great progress in cooperation between our institutions, in the provision of information to citizens, at political level between our relevant services and most importantly, on the ground, in the Member States.
Recognising that the challenge of communication with 370 million citizens is immense, and the means available are definitely limited, we are now working increasingly with the Member States so that they share the responsibility for informing their citizens, engaging them in a dialogue that is a prerequisite for good governance and increased public support.
The adoption by the Commission, in July, of the communication on an information and communication strategy for the European Union, and the warm welcome it received, both by the Culture Committee and the Interinstitutional Group on Information, provide tangible evidence of our shared political will to be proactive in generating awareness, combating ignorance and apathy and improving perceptions about the Union.
We recognised that, whilst informing and communicating with citizens must be a priority, we have to ensure that we have the capacity, especially in terms of human resources, to manage the expenditure of the funds.
The PDB is therefore the firm basis for our consideration of amendments, with one exception that relates to the new priority topic proposed in the July communication mentioned above.
This will be for a campaign which specifically relates to the role of Europe in the world and our actions to regulate globalisation so that it can bring benefits to our citizens and the wider world.
We also strongly support the amendment to restore a cut of EUR 500 000 made by the Council, in the line that provides for the use of information correspondents to work with the media in the Member States and for the use of Eurojust experts to answer citizens' questions relating to European law.
The information to the candidate countries on the euro is included in the enlargement campaign, and the Commission believes that, in the case of the countries which are not yet part of the euro, the necessary funds will be proposed the day that each of these countries decides to join the euro.
Finally, in the new basis of cooperation between the Parliament and the Commission and engaging the Member States, we will be able to improve our information and communication policy and therefore make better use of taxpayers' money.
I would like to say that the PPE Group supports the amendments by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms proposed by the rapporteur in the crucial area of immigration and asylum policy.
I would like to know if the Commission and the Council are prepared to support us in this direction.
It is the first time that all the instruments of an active and balanced policy for managing migratory flows have been identified and strengthened by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms.
We support the increase in resources for cooperation with third countries.
I would like to know if the Commission and the Council are prepared, in these matters that are strategic not only from a point of view of the development of the European Union, but also from the point of view of the way in which our fellow citizens perceive them, to increase the resources set aside in these different areas.
The language of communication is also often cumbersome and not enough attention is paid to cultural differences.
In the plans drafted under the guidance of Commissioner Vitorino we can read of the aim to base communications on the public's need for information.
The Commission's four priorities concerning information - enlargement, the future of the Union, establishing the area of freedom, security and justice, and the EU's role in the world, are absolutely crucial.
That is why it is unthinkable that the Council should make cuts in its own draft budget in the area of appropriations for the information service.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which supports Commissioner Vitorino's information policy, has unanimously proposed there should be additional resources for the budget headings concerned with information.
We cannot ask the people to become interested in our work if they do not know what is going on here.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too would like to express some concerns regarding the preliminary draft budget, some of which relate to issues which have already been raised during this debate.
Bureaucracy in this area is simply unmanageable.
It is an area that we must promote and develop, especially as regards new technologies.
I would like to ask the Commission to support our motion that these amounts be augmented.
I would like to use my remaining speaking time to call on the Council to at last come up with a ruling on the seats of the new agencies, so that this House does not end up getting through the legislative procedures in no time, with the Council then needing years to come to any decision on the seat issue.
Mr President, having listened to Commissioner Vitorino and several of my fellow Members, I can see that we share a concern to provide information to our citizens, and I listened with great interest to the Commissioner asking us for more resources than those which were set aside in the preliminary draft budget and the budget.
Commissioner, I would like to emphasise the fact that we tabled many amendments in order to give the Commission another chance to complete this essential task, namely the communication on the work of the European Union institutions.
As far as Europol is concerned, Parliament did indeed set aside 5 million in the 2002 budget.
I share your hope that the Council will find a solution to the issue of the legal basis so that the EUR 3 400 000 can be used before the end of the year.
I mentioned the issue of the 5 million to illustrate that I do not fully agree with your comparison of the figures.
This amount has not been reproduced in this year's budget.
We must compare the JHA budget less the 5 million from 2002, in other words EUR 114 million, with the EUR 119 million that we want to propose.
As far as the budget for asylum and immigration is concerned, I think that the budgetary line for cooperation with third countries was devoted, in 2002, mainly to aid operations for Afghan refugees and to the return of Afghan refugees.
No one can question the priority given to Afghanistan.
That said, I support your idea that we should have at our disposal a general overview of the budgetary situation of funds that the European Union is already providing, at the current time, for cooperation with third countries in the area of asylum and immigration.
These funds do not only appear in the JHA budget; they also appear, and to a great extent, in the Relex budget, in the Country strategy papers, in the regional programmes such as MEDA or CARDS.
That is why the Seville Council asked us to draw up a report on the effectiveness of financial resources that we provide for cooperation with third countries.
We shall do this within the timeframe laid down by the Seville European Council and I shall take this opportunity to present to you the first mid-term assessment of the use of the European Refugee Fund over the period 2000-2002.
We have an assessment of the results of these programmes compared to the results obtained by the candidate countries each year.
I can only support the idea that an information and communication policy must be a policy of proximity.
I cannot promise you that the new approach will succeed.
Without these intruments, we will not be able to succeed in establishing this partnership with the Member States.
I would like to thank you for your support in this respect and I hope that we will be able to develop, on the basis of this partnership, a more proactive, clearer and better targeted information and communication policy.
the opinion of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy is of course interested in international development and especially the opportunity to play a part in shaping policy within the WTO.
The WTO and the capacity to make decisions on matters of WTO policy are extremely important, especially for our small and medium enterprises.
Thirdly, in the energy field, we want to ensure that the intelligent energy programmes, but also the ALTENER, SAVE and SYNERGIE programmes, are used intensively and that the Commission sets priorities here, especially for our energy self-sufficiency, where the aim, after all, is to achieve an increase from 50% to 70%.
Let me make one further point, which originates from Parliament alone: we want Basle II to have its own action programme.
Sadly, the only real long-term solution to this problem lies in the revision of the financial perspective in 2006.
The Committee on Development has proposed that all regional budget lines contribute to achieving the sizeable recurrent contribution needed.
Already the fund has committed 13% of its money to the Americas.
I have been given a clear understanding that the Global Health Fund's transitional working group meeting in Brussels agreed USD 100 million for a board seat, that the Global Fund secretariat has already budgeted for a USD 120 million European Community contribution for next year, and that approved projects will be cut if we fail to match that figure.
I have given the Commissioner advance notice of these questions.
If I am wrong, let him put this on the record today, and if I am right let him support our amendments.
That is why Parliament this year is seeking to earmark this spending and promote it as part of the deconcentration of staff and in the new country strategy papers.
Commissioner Nielson will be aware that on 15 July his services promised a firm proposal on this point and that I received his reply by fax only at 3.40 p.m.
The Committee has set itself three objectives: firstly, to make clear which foreign policy priorities the European Union intends to set in the new financial year without wrecking the stipulated financial framework.
Secondly, we want more transparency.
The third issue, which is a particular priority for the draftsman of the opinion and the Committee, is to improve the security of our delegations around the world.
Remedial action needs to be taken here and we want to support this process.
Let me take each of these three points in turn.
The European Union's new external borders require more funding for cooperation across these borders, which is why we have proposed a number of increases.
Anti-personnel mines and the rapid reaction mechanism are also areas where we have proposed budget increases.
Then we have a scenario reminiscent of the film Dinner for One at New Year, with the 'same procedure as every year', when the Commission cuts the funding for human rights and democracy budget lines and the Parliament bumps it up again.
We intend to do so this year as well, and we would ask the Commission to take note for once next year that Parliament is setting these priorities and that this should be reflected in the draft budget.
Finally, the draftsman has also urged us to ensure that there is, in future, regular disclosure of the budget lines for Palestine so that it can be ascertained from the outset where the money is going.
These are our priorities.
Let me conclude by addressing a request to the Council.
On the issue raised by Mr Howitt, which also relates to the Global Health Fund, I would point out that we have earmarked EUR 35 million for the Fund in the budget.
My colleague Mr Nielson, in particular, has various budget lines available.
As regards Mr Rübig's question on energy, the Commission has proposed a new multi-annual programme for action in the field of intelligent energies, which also provides funding for these energies in third states.
The Commission will provide the breakdown of figures against the various DAC codes from the OECD showing commitments in 2002 and 2003 for health and education.
The level of commitments will depend mainly on the results of the programming exercise in our partner countries.
I agree very much with Mr Laschet that the increase in TACIS is important, inter alia for reasons of stepping up our presence in general in that region.
On what was said about involving Parliament more closely when making political promises, I understood that to mean that Parliament should be involved more before making political promises, otherwise I do not see why we need to discuss it.
We welcome the amendment by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy underlining the difficult security situation of many of our delegations.
It will also unnecessarily penalise some of the poorest beneficiaries, since the main impact will fall on delegations in 30 ACP countries.
What we do, and what we prefer to do, is to strengthen the handling of the different sectors by means of networks of specialists both in headquarters and out in delegations.
Mr President, my point concerns the next four hours.
One question we need answering before we take a decision next week on category 4 is: what is the amount of money that the European Union has to pay to get a seat on the board of the Global Health Fund?
If we look at what it took to get a seat in the first year, following the establishment of the Fund, the mathematics tell us that it was around EUR 84 million, but the United States says that it is paying for about four seats.
The actual use of that money and the overall availability of funds compared to the actual spending in the first year makes for a very open discussion as to the actual funding need for the coming year.
Mr President, allow me to comment directly on Commissioner Nielson's speech.
Alongside the budget, we are working - as you know, Commissioner Nielson - on the directive that you are responsible for and that is to lay down the rate for the next four years, for which the Commission has proposed a total amount of EUR 300 million.
According to the Committee on Development and Cooperation, this amount is altogether too little, not only for the purposes of obtaining the necessary flexibility and going in and supporting the Global AIDS and Health Fund, but also for ensuring that the EU's own work, via the resources of our own secretariat, is as ambitious as possible.
Mr President, I would just like to raise four points.
I am not really satisfied with the response and the answer we have had from Commissioner Nielson.
I should like to draw both the Council's and Commission's attention to this, with the very specific question to the Council whether it would be prepared to make room in its budget for a special deputy for the Southern Caucasus and Tibet and if not, to make this known promptly and clearly so that the Commission can plug this hole.
After all, it is unacceptable for European presence in crisis regions to be restricted simply because a widely shared political aspiration is at risk of falling between all the financial stools.
Mr President, when we talk about next year's budget, we should not overlook the fact that the budget's implementation, both now and in the past, has displayed worrying features.
The report by the committee on human genetics foundered last year due to the great division in this Parliament concerning an ethical framework for biomedical developments.
Research that is punishable in one Member State would then receive funding from the European Union in another.
The aforementioned fellow MEPs who have negotiated with the Council on behalf of Parliament in this manner have gone beyond the boundaries of political decency.
It is a highly important chapter in which our credibility is at stake, not only with regard to the aspects already cited by my fellow Members - the RAL, occasional implementation problems - but also in terms of our public statements, our political and legal commitments, and important budget-related actions.
I am talking about the cooperation agreements we have concluded with many countries.
Well, despite the fact that Parliament has insisted on this aspect, despite the fact that the Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, including cooperation agreements, made a commitment to ensure that these agreements are respected to the letter, we still, as if nothing had happened, continue to conclude and maintain projects, programmes and funding in countries run by dictators.
Together with my colleagues in the radical party and hundreds, or even thousands, of people, and also many of my fellow Members, I called the Commission's attention to the human rights situation in Vietnam.
Well, in 2003 we are due to give Vietnam EUR 38 million.
We have tabled an amendment so that, at least at first reading, these agreements and funds may be set aside until the situation is resolved and both Vietnam and the Commission provide us with guarantees and explanations as to what is really going on there.
We took Vietnam as an example because we think the Commission should really change its method of managing and implementing the budget with regard to these cooperation agreements.
We must vigorously support it, and, for that reason, my group has proposed an extra EUR 10 million for cross-border cooperation under the TACIS programme.
This has had the full support of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
It is not acceptable that from one year to the next the European Union undertakes new commitments under Section IV of the budget, without putting more money into it.
This is a high proportion.
As you know, the Commission has already proposed increasing the funding by one-third, specifically to finance the shared costs of the International Police Task Force in Bosnia.
However, we appeal very strongly for adequate funding for measures from the rapid reaction mechanism to be included once again in the Commission's budget plan.
The Council had cut this area, and we would welcome it if Parliament could restore the funding here.
The following year this figure was down to 4.1 years and at the end of last year we were down to 3.66 years.
We are moving in the right direction but I have not been silent in trying to clarify to this Parliament what kind of a problem we had, the size of that problem and the complexity of it when we took office.
We are also discussing the totality of the money being spent and I need to come back to this figure of 35% as the target expenditure on the social sectors, which we agreed to with Parliament and which I still think is something we can deliver.
We should normalise our development cooperation and support to Afghanistan.
The best solution would be to put it into the budget as a whole.
The total figure for what we do in the field of energy also, especially with regard to renewable energy in development cooperation, is much bigger.
All this is emerging, and we have long spoken about the need for redefining and updating the character of our development cooperation with these countries.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, I shall single out two separate points which I believe are the two key points of the document.
For example, it stipulates that the initiative should be tabled by five countries, and also that it must have a very high budget.
Hence the suggestion to admit initiatives if they involve three countries, where the budget can also be a little more restricted.
The second point of crucial importance to us is gender policy.
I would draw your attention to one point in particular, namely the conditions for cooperation with the developing countries at a political, economic and cultural level.
Commissioner Nielson said a moment ago that the conditions for cooperation in the field of human rights with the ACP countries, Asia and Latin America, are very stringent.
Nevertheless, I notice that when human rights are discussed, this does not always include women's rights.
This is why we absolutely insist - and this is for us in the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, and I believe also for all the women in Parliament a real must - that cooperation with countries be suspended if they fail to take measures to prevent violence against women, stoning, public chastisement, genital mutilation, cremation or rape.
Mr Bösch has tabled a number of amendments from the point of view of a critical friend, regarding OLAF, the Anti-Fraud Office.
The committee has also taken a strong view on export refunds.
I am definitely not one of those, but essentially the amendments aim for transparency and to help people like me understand the purpose, scope, cost and implementation of export refunds.
Other amendments include those on the Economic and Social Committee, cutting funds to reduce its dependence on external experts, increasing appropriations for the measures to combat counterfeiting of the euro - something I as a British Conservative have some trepidation in suggesting - and reinstating part of a cut in budget line B1-361 which seeks to improve monitoring and preventative measures in candidate countries concerning agriculture budgets.
Those are the amendments that the Budgetary Control Committee has submitted.
On behalf of the Committee Legal Affairs and the Single Market, I want to draw attention to those items affecting the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance.
This is a highly desirable project but one which will put heavy demands on the judicial resources of the European Union.
There are very specific points: we need referendaires in the Court of First Instance because the European Union has failed to fill vacancies for judges, we need upgraded posts and we need improved translation services.
Mr President, as draftsman for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to draw the attention of the Commissioners and my fellow Members to two fundamental aspects of the amendments we have tabled, which I hope Parliament and the Committee on Budgets will be able to accept.
The first aspect concerns the Prince programme.
We have therefore asked for substantial funding to popularise the work of the Convention, while giving those who are against this Convention or its results the opportunity to make themselves heard - which theoretically speaking is not my case.
I am speaking out like this because I believe this programme to be important.
We have Europe by Satellite, our citizens already have some means of access to our work, debates and press conferences.
This programme must therefore ensure that soon, in time, the Internet becomes an important vehicle for publicising the work of all the institutions.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Commissioner on Sunday's election results in Germany.
We regard this still relatively new institution as a major step forward in guaranteeing the quality and control of the administration and citizens' access to it.
Our colleagues have presented their cases for their areas - the small institutions - and I hope that in future budget procedures, despite the error that arose at the advent of this financial perspective, we will be able to find a solution in our area as well.
This is after all a separate plan, and one which must, of course, be managed within the constraints of category 5 if new requirements exist.
With enlargement, according to the financial perspective and according to Agenda 2000, we will have more resources available in category 5.
This means that with enlargement, these restrictions will ease to some extent, taking account of the fact that in a European Union with 25 Member States, many new posts will be needed in Parliament, the Council, the European Court of Justice and, not least, the Commission.
On the issue of human rights violations, especially violence against women, let me point out that Article 9 of the Cotonou Agreement also reaffirms that the equality of men and women is an integral element of human rights.
For years, the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities has put forward proposals during the budget procedure to take account of the different impacts of our decisions on women and men.
In the context of aid to Afghanistan, targeted measures have thus been introduced to reintegrate women into public life and restore their human rights.
Nonetheless, the STOP and DAPHNE programmes must not be used simply to carry out representative events.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities is working on an own-initiative report on this issue.
A word of criticism on the practice governing the allocation of funds as well: all too often - for example, in town twinning or the NGOs - it generates a great deal of resentment.
If on the one hand, we ensure that we do not spend any more on tobacco cultivation and we dismantle bureaucratic hurdles in this area, we cannot then put up similar hurdles in the way of the NGOs.
Mr President, I would still like to raise a couple of points.
It is in small and medium-sized enterprises in particular that jobs are created.
Unfortunately, fear of distorting competition often hinders even rational action.
For that reason, competition law should be interpreted more freely in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises.
This would mean, for example, that the Structural Funds could be used more effectively to prevent unemployment.
The Commission has mainly focused on two issues: environmental protection and nuclear safety.
The ELDR is strongly in favour of reforming the Commission's administration and pruning bureaucracy.
The importance of that was reflected in the debate on the Structural Funds.
Mr President, Commissioner, unfortunately, you have not had the opportunity yet - and I am pleased to give you this opportunity now - to reply to my earlier questions about the 500 new positions, the lack of manpower to monitor compliance with environmental legislation and also to the question of whether candidate countries should get the bureaucratic red-tape underway as early as 2003 to apply for Structural Funds so as to guarantee the highest possible level of implementation in 2004.
Everyone will agree that tax money must be spent wisely.
This is an untenable situation, in my view.
This means that these two years do not complete the proceedings; these two years are in addition to the duration of proceedings in the Member State.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is also responsible for issues relating to the internal market and enlargement.
We have always focussed particularly on the specific challenges facing the internal market as a result of enlargement, especially for border regions.
We therefore fully endorse the amendments which aim to ensure that in line with last year's pledge, the funding for the pilot programme for SMEs is pegged at EUR 15 million.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as early as the part-session last May, I expressed my concerns during the debate following the presentation of the 2003 PDB about a budgetary procedure which was proving, yet again, to be utterly inadequate to meet the needs of our Union.
In May, my criticism of the Commission was based on two considerations: the level of RALs and heading 5.
In July, Parliament and the Council came to an agreement on heading 5 which rejects the Commission's request for more staff to deal with the challenges of enlargement in an attempt to balance the accounts.
I would rather not return to the subject of the RALs because time is lacking and because none of us wishes to hear information which we know to be completely unviable financially but which, nevertheless, is produced year after year in the budgetary procedure.
Here I am yet again, calling upon this House and, through this House, upon the Council and the Commission to give due consideration to the possibility of revising the financial perspective, which, on the basis of my relatively little experience, appears to be the only conceivable sensible and responsible political move we can make.
I must stress: over the next three years, up until 2006, we will have to establish the budget for a 25-Member-State Union according to a financial perspective calculated on the basis of the needs of a 21-Member-State Union.
After the December Council, which will have to establish which and how many States are to enter the European Union in time for the European elections in 2004, the Commission should present a proposal for revision of the financial perspective, a proposal which the two arms of the budgetary authority will have ample time to adopt - in accordance with Article 20 of the Interinstitutional Agreement - before the start of the 2004 budgetary procedure.
But, above all, we are taking part in this debate to thank the Commission for the initiative it has taken with this budgetary debate, which completely changes the structure we had in other years.
Our parliamentary group considers it essential - it has believed this for some years - to make the legislative and budgetary procedures more appropriate.
This is not just a whim of this group but rather, since we are part of the budgetary authority, the European Parliament must be able to express its opinion on the resources necessary for the Commission to be able to move its annual political strategy forward.
The stock-taking for this year shows us that the concerns of the Commission are very clear and very specific and that the Commission, in particular, is very concerned that the new posts should be dedicated to the implementation of the Community acquis in the candidate countries.
Just as the European Parliament is going to be sensitive to the concerns of the Commission, we want the Commission to be sensitive to the point of view of this Parliament in relation to the reform of the Commission.
The Commission will largely be judged on its ability to recognise the need for the reform, to draw up the reform and, above all, to carry it out.
In order to demonstrate that the European Parliament is inflexible on this point, we are presenting some amendments which put certain appropriations in reserve.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, after the Treaty of Nice the direction the institutions of the European Union are going to take is clear and in this respect you must take very good account of the fact that, from a budgetary point of view, this Parliament is only really a Parliament if it is given the powers to obtain complete information, complete transparency and full participation in all the Union's financial decisions.
Until this is fully achieved - and it has not so far been achieved - we are going to have an unstable and imperfect institutional model with many tensions and we are going to spend a large part of the budgetary procedure arguing about trivial procedural issues instead of the fundamental issues.
My group is therefore presenting amendments this year which are aimed exclusively at improving the budgetary mechanism and the institutional balance which we believe to be essential.
Some items in this proposal, however, are somewhat confusing, and I should like the Commissioner to clarify them.
Thirdly, the reference to absolute costs of disasters makes no sense, because this of course most benefits the large economies and, furthermore, it is hard to understand why no reference is made to the financial capacity of each State as a criterion for the aid to be granted by the Community.
Topic number one - since it occupied our minds yet again this week, as the President-in-Office can testify - is the European Union's aid to ameliorate the damage caused by the catastrophic floods in Europe.
The PPE group's other idea has already been presented to you by the chairman of our working party, James Elles.
I think it is very important for enlargement to take place on a real and practical basis by establishing an appropriate cross-border infrastructure with the Central and Eastern European countries.
The President-in-Office is already aware of my request.
However, there are two issues that concern us.
To wait for the 2004 budget to cover these needs would seem to me irresponsible, since the Court must be prepared at least a year before the date on which enlargement takes place.
If these lawyer-linguists are not professionalised in the manner proposed by the Court of Justice, we will find that both the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice will be faced with enormous difficulties in terms of retaining this kind of staff.
Professonalisation is therefore necessary at the moment, since without it we will have no guarantee that the Court will have the necessary staff to carry out its work.
As rapporteur dealing with the implementation of the 2002 budget, I would like to return briefly to the subject of the RALs.
I listened to what Commissioner Barnier said to us but we must not disregard the fact that, quite apart from the seasonal factor, which might account for the current exceptionally high level, which will, we hope, fall as much as possible within the space of a few months, we have EUR 15 billion more than we had this time last year.
This may well be the most important point, for we are talking about simplifying procedures - and we have discussed this in the context of the resources to be earmarked for natural disasters too: it really is extremely difficult for our citizens, our businesses and our public administrations to use Community resources.
However, Commissioner Barnier mentioned what I believe to be an extremely valid consideration, and that is the responsibility of the Council and the Member States' governments.
I wish this situation could be changed, for there can be no democracy without transparency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is clear that, in the medium term, the budgetary landscape is full of uncertainties which are of concern to hundreds of thousands of citizens.
To date, half of the Council does not accept the Commission's proposals on the future CAP nor has there been any clarification of the funding of the reform of the fisheries policy whatsoever.
As has already been said, this Parliament - and my group in particular - has maintained that there is a need for a reform of the Commission which is in line with the ambitions of the European citizens of the twenty-first century.
The difficulties in the funding of external actions, covered by heading 4, have become standard during every budgetary procedure.
Firstly, that throughout this period we maintain the principle of geographical balance in the annual allocation of resources and respect the political priorities of this Parliament.
Secondly, that the Council abandon this pernicious double-speak of making commitments in word without adding new resources.
With regard to the shared concern to solve the problem of the outstanding commitments, essentially the abnormal RALs, I would like to ask a question: does the Commissioner believe that the cut by the Council of EUR 500 million in payment appropriations is compatible with its execution objectives for next year?
Let me point out once again that we have taken this into account explicitly in many of the budget figures and included it explicitly in many of the programmes.
In line with the Commission's proposal, this means that we can then ensure, through administrative measures, that 149 posts can be made available additionally for the 'sustainable development' priority.
For the area of environmental protection, together with the posts for enlargement, the proposal now provides for 33 more places for the Directorate-General.
As regards the use of the 717 posts which you approved for us in the last two years, the focus here has been on foreign policy.
This is also apparent in other areas, such as competition etc.
Mr Turchi, you stated, in the context of enlargement, that there must be an adjustment of the financial perspective.
This will indeed be our joint task for 2004 since the adjustment of the perspective must then be shaped in such as way as to ensure that we distribute the resources from category 8 appropriately to the other measures.
After all, the negotiations on the enlargement budget are now well under way.
The budget authority must then undertake the appropriate adjustment for the year 2004, so we will all be looking at this issue during the course of 2003.
However, I should like to reiterate that we are in an unusual situation here because the task is to create a completely new instrument.
As regards the implementation of the various measures, I think we should also discuss the report on the Structural Funds in more detail in the Committee on Budgets.
The EUR 900 million to be used for this mean that the budget surplus here will be lower.
Mr Casaca, you and other speakers this evening have raised this issue, and the President-in-Office will underline this once more in a moment: in the debate about the legal basis - in other words, when do we refer to a disaster, when will assistance be provided, and what conditions will apply - the President-in-Office has agreed that there will be a conciliation procedure in due course here too.
All I can say is that this is a decision for the European Parliament.
I was astounded to read a letter in the Financial Times yesterday, from Hervé Gaymond, the French Agriculture Minister, and six other agriculture ministers.
Subsidies have not delivered prosperity and security for British farmers; in fact, often subsidies and quotas are being capitalised into the high cost base of our industry.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are debating the revision of the common fisheries policy, the budget for 2003 assumes particular importance, and so we hope that the Commission will provide the budgetary authority with information on the budgetary impact of the revision, as the Committee on Fisheries recommends in the opinion that it adopted for the Committee on Budgets.
In any event, we must now guarantee the use of a flexibility instrument for the EUR 27 million that will be used to fund the specific measure of promoting the reconversion of the ships and fishermen that until 1999 depended on the Fisheries Agreement with Morocco, covered by the heading on the structural measures of the financial perspectives under heading B2-200 of the draft budget for 2003.
In its opinion of 11 September on the budget for 2003, the Committee on Fisheries declared itself in favour of protecting the use of flexibility instrument for the PTE 27 billion for this funding, but as to the proposal to use the EUR 32 million for the funding of additional measures to destroy fishing boats in line with the Commission proposal on the revision of the common fisheries policy, the majority of Members of this House declared themselves against, since the entire issue is currently being debated and since the information we have is incomplete.
The disagreement about any attempt to reprogramme or redistribute FIFG appropriations was also reaffirmed as was the principle that new means must be provided for new needs in order to protect the importance of the strategic sector of fisheries for the Community in general and for certain countries and regions in particular, given the deep-rooted link certain local and regional communities have with fishing.
Mr President, Commissioner Schreyer, Commissioner Fischler, it is apparent yet again from today's discussion that some people are keen to feather their nests from the agricultural budget.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - and I myself - do not believe that too much money is flowing into agriculture and Europe's rural regions.
With regard to the transfer to the second pillar, let me point out again that we have re-introduced our INPART programme.
However, we still endorse the concept of establishing a bottom-up programme for the new Member States as well.
We simply have to try and find sufficient funds here.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to express my warm thanks to the honourable Members for making it possible, for the first time, for us to debate next year's budget in Parliament even before the formal procedure begins.
As far as agriculture and rural development are concerned, I am pleased to see that a series of the amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development call for the appropriations in heading 1a to be restored to the level proposed by the Commission in its preliminary draft budget, and that there is a desire to reverse the cuts made across the board by the Council.
I explicitly welcome the reinstatement of these appropriations and should like in addition to underline that the Commission's PDB had already provided for a margin of EUR 2.26 billion below the financial perspective ceiling that was set in Berlin.
As you know, at the end of October the Commission will be tabling a letter of amendment to the PDB for the EAGGF Guarantee Section so as to take account of the very latest macroeconomic forecasts and recent legislative developments.
Today it is certainly still too early to quantify precisely the changes that could be proposed, but I can tell you which factors will be taken into consideration.
Secondly, the market situation in a number of sectors has unfortunately not improved since the preliminary draft budget was presented.
This is the case in particular for milk and milk products, which is precisely the sector that has not yet undergone reform.
In these cases, as you know, we have brought forward advance payments to the 2002 budget year and this is, after all, over EUR 900 million which will, as a result, no longer be needed in the 2003 budget.
Allow me also briefly to address the question, which I am asked so frequently, of the extent to which the proposals made in the context of the mid-term review will impact on the 2003 budget.
To be quite plain, not at all, because the mid-term review can only come into force in 2004 and no legislative changes will therefore be made in the coming year which will make it possible to change the budget.
In its motion, the Agriculture Committee calls for funds to be made available to European farmers in compensation for the extreme weather conditions by, for example, using the surplus in the current marketing year or by creating a disaster relief fund in heading 1b.
I have already mentioned that we have brought forward significant payments in the arable crops sector.
As far as a disaster relief fund is concerned, the Commission has already proposed the creation of a solidarity fund, of at least EUR 500 million this year, but of EUR one billion in 2003, and a decision should be taken quickly on this.
However, this is not a matter that can be resolved in the context of the 2003 budget; it requires a longer-term strategy, the very strategy that we have set out in the mid-term review.
At its first reading, the Council retained the figures in the preliminary draft budget.
The Commission made an initial proposal in its preliminary draft budget, but so far this has not received the support of the budgetary authority.
On the issues raised by Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf in connection with export subsidies, I can only make proposals on the basis of existing legislation.
Only then would it be possible to meet your request, but I should like to stress that the Commission shares the view that in future, agricultural policy and fisheries policy should be included under the codecision procedure.
Neither is a debate assessing Commissioner Fischler's proposals on the mid-term review on today's agenda.
Firstly, the Council is proposing a general reduction of 0.8% or 0.6% across all 1a lines, which amounts to a cut of EUR 275 million.
Secondly, in the Agriculture Committee, our colleagues from the Greens proposed a drastic cut in export refunds; to be more precise they wanted to reduce all export refunds to zero.
Accordingly, in a vote on a proposal tabled by the PPE Group, the Agriculture Committee rejected both proposals by a majority.
At present, the utilisation rate of the 2002 agriculture budget lines is around 80%.
The reality of the situation does indeed support the call for better management and optimal use of agricultural funds.
The question is whether there is already any prospect now of going beyond the Interinstitutional Agreement and implementing this.
I should also like to mention this once more.
Mr President, Commissioners, this is an extraordinarily interesting time for agriculture.
The second is the draft mid-term review.
I hope that the European Parliament is able to support the Commission in its efforts to change and reform the policy in the future.
I believe this is necessary and, even though we do not have any formal influence, our support is badly needed as a matter of urgency.
Economic results, especially in the manufacturing sector, are disappointing to say the least.
Capitalism is in a state of deep crisis; all it can do now is cling to the stability pact and anti-labour policies, chip away at workers' rights and their standard of living and pensions, cut farmers' incomes and choke the life out of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The European Union budget for 2003 is yet another example of this anti-grass roots policy in practice.
A typical example is the agricultural economy: not only does the Community budget do nothing to reverse the decline in income of poor average farmers, who are being driven from the land in droves, but the system of prices and subsidies guarantees cheap raw materials and higher profits for the tobacco and other industries which process their products.
The common agricultural policy and quotas have created a huge, EUR 25 billion trade deficit in the European Union, jobs are being lost and unemployment is rising.
The objectives of big business for 2003 are obvious from the relative reduction in the amounts proposed, at a time when peoples' needs are increasing, unemployment is rising, the environment is being destroyed and so-called globalisation is giving rise to new forms of exploitation and spreading poverty and hunger across the planet.
Mr President, I would like to commend the various rapporteurs and draftsmen on their excellent work on the 2003 budget.
As regards the proposals for agricultural spending in the coming year, I note that the preliminary draft budget adopted by the Commission leaves a margin of EUR 2.3 billion under the ceiling agreed by the financial perspective.
In my own country, Ireland, there has been an almost 20% drop in farm incomes this year when inflation is factored in.
In this respect, it is totally unacceptable that the Council has proposed an across-the-board reduction in agricultural spending in comparison with that which the Commission has proposed.
The attempt by the Council to shave EUR 275 million off market expenditure in such hard-hit sectors as arable crops, milk, beef and mutton and lamb is completely out of order under the current climate.
As far as my own group is concerned, we have tabled a series of amendments which seek to undo some of the potential damage.
Similarly, installation aid for young farmers is a key component in ensuring the future of farming, particularly in the more isolated regions which have a structure of small family farms.
This has negative consequences also for urban areas.
It is important to get the message across to European citizens that we are all beneficiaries of the European model of farming.
Mr President, this year, once again, the agriculture budget has been subject to a certain amount of rigour which I believe reflects certain political views rather than the true situation of the agriculture sector.
These were severely reduced even though so much remains to be done, both in the field of prevention and in terms of research.
The year 2003 will be characterised by an evolving CAP.
According to the OECD, US agricultural policy costs USD 338 per taxpayer in comparison with USD 276 in the European Union.
So, just as our US counterparts, in view of the failure of their previous agricultural act, the Fair Act, have decided to increase aid to agriculture by 70% at a time when some countries have the advantage of large areas of land, using advanced agricultural technologies, benefiting from extremely low labour costs, and implementing dumping policies that destabilise prices world-wide, we should not call into question the Berlin agreements by wanting to impose a reduction in our agriculture budgets within the EU.
Lastly, if we really want to reduce the public budgets allocated to agriculture, it is perhaps time to reopen discussions on Community preference, by defining a new, updated Community preference system that would allow the extra cost imposed on our agriculture sector by our high food safety, social, environmental and animal welfare requirements to be absorbed internally into the agriculture prices on the Community market.
In order to do this, Mr President, Commissioners, we must firmly turn our back on the aberrant dogma of world prices.
Mr President, we have a Commissioner for Agriculture and Fisheries who - and I am now talking as my group's shadow rapporteur for the fisheries budget - is at any rate decisive and, if you will allow me a personal comment, has guts, courage and a proven vision in terms of the EU's enlargement.
Parliament and the Council have indicated that we consider it important, as a result of the failure in Spain of the fisheries agreements with Morocco, that money be set aside for the regions in question.
Thirdly, far-reaching decisions in the fisheries sector also means that a number of regions will actually be affected.
All of the areas of agricultural policy on which I have questions or which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has tackled have already been addressed by him or other colleagues.
This issue has been raised time and again since 1994.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is calling for tobacco subsidies to be abolished.
Obviously the Committee on Budgets cannot accommodate this request because we have a market organisation and we have to work within the legislative framework.
Neither is it acceptable for you to answer that it is all far too expensive because converting jobs - in whatever sector - costs anything from EUR 31 000 to EUR 391 000.
However, I have a question on the period that follows.
In the Böge report on enlargement, which we adopted in May of this year, Parliament asked the Commission to outline agricultural policy after 2006 and what the expenses would roughly be.
It is, in my view, extremely serious that approximately nine months following the adoption of the budget, not even a start has been made on two issues that are so important for public opinion.
Since the Commission wants - and it has let this be known - the reformed CFP to enter into force in 2003, it is asking us to decide immediately on the appropriations which, according to the Commission, the reform will imply: EUR 32 million payable by means of the flexibility instrument, intended to finance the specific measure for scrapping vessels.
The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that this Parliament has yet to give its opinion on the fundamental elements of this issue.
The Commission, for its preliminary draft budget, should - we believe - have worked on the basis of the Resolution approved by this Parliament in relation to the Green Paper on the reform.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like - quite briefly given the advanced hour - to respond to the questions that have been raised here.
From the outset - and we have also discussed this several times here in this Parliament - the intention was that we should table a proposal for a new type of market organisation for tobacco next year.
Here too, however, I have already informed Parliament several times that we intend to work on these next year.
As far as milk is concerned, in principle this is contained in the mid-term review, which also makes it clear that the Commission is prepared at any time to make a legislative proposal adjusting the common organisation of the market in milk, but only if it is clear that the Member States are prepared politically to go in a particular direction.
The only thing is that when it comes to practical implementation we also have to say where the money to boost rural development is going to come from.
If you say that the bad weather in Ireland has had such a serious effect on farmers' income, then I can assure you that we are also prepared to help Ireland.
We are prepared to transfer the advances as early as 16 October, the first day on which the money is available.
Research into animal diseases also takes place in the research framework programme and not in our own budget.
Some say that policy can only be designed on the basis of a budget, which means that you first have to enter more resources in the budget or transfer funds from elsewhere so that you can choose to reform within a sound legal framework.
Only then can we actually determine the specific sums involved in detail.
Both Parliament and the Commission have touched upon important themes concerning the 2003 budget.
I should nonetheless like to add a number of observations to a couple of the speeches that have been made.
Today's debate has indicated both the Commission's and the Member States' responsibility in this area, and this needs to be followed up.
With regard to the mid-term review of agricultural policy, I should like to emphasise that the Danish Presidency will do what it can to further the negotiations on reform.
In that connection, it is encouraging that a common understanding has been reached of the need to work towards securing funding for the Common Foreign and Security Policy in the light of essential new tasks.
We are also agreed about trying to reach an agreement on involving Parliament in the CFSP arrangements within the framework of the Treaty.
The fact that the emergency aid reserve for humanitarian assistance can now also be used for civil crisis management is also a significant result.
In June, a common understanding was also reached about the need to fund the restructuring of the Spanish and Portuguese fishing fleets and about the need to keep the overall payment appropriations as low as possible.
Today's debate has helped clarify Parliament's and the Commission's ideas and attitudes, and I am certain that we can continue the sound cooperation between the institutions and, together, find the necessary solutions so that, in December, a budget can be adopted based on a detailed prioritising of EU funds within the financial estimates.
In this way, we shall be able jointly to meet the challenges of the next few years.
I should also like to thank the President-in-Office.
During this presidency, the Danes have achieved several firsts in the budget procedure and to sit here for four and a half hours is a massive first.
These amendments clarify important points, notably on the definitions, the notification procedures and the access of the public to the information.
However, some redrafting needs to be done, notably on amendments 19, 21 and 52 where the Commission would prefer a wording more in line with the Protocol for cases of absence of decision by the Party of Import. ·- The Commission cannot accept the rest of the amendments (25), namely amendments 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 16, 17, 22, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 38, 44, 45, 47, 48, 49, 53, 57, 58 and 59.
More specifically, the programme should help shift the expected increase in international road freight of 12 billion tonnes per km per year from congested roads to short-sea shipping, rail and inland waterway services.
For the five-year period from 2003-2007, we propose an overall budget of EUR 115 million.
Marco Polo is an ambitious and pragmatic programme, geared to concretely improving services and logistics in the short-sea, rail and inland waterway freight markets.
At the same time, it provides for appropriate monitoring and control to exclude unacceptable distortions of competition in the market.
Marco Polo is thus more than a single continuation of the PACT Programme, which came to an end on 31 December 2001.
Marco Polo will also support actions involving countries outside the European Union and candidate countries, in particular the applicant countries, whereas PACT excluded them.
In this context, it proposes funding for three different types of actions: modal shift actions, catalyst actions and common learning actions.
Modal shift actions: these involved start-up aid for new services in the non-road freight market.
Catalyst actions: this aid is also limited in time and should lead to viable non-road freight services.
In order to achieve a real European added value, the Commission proposes to support only projects of significant impact on the market, which implies sufficiently large contracts.
I have several important points to make on my report concerning the Marco Polo Programme.
Firstly, this programme must strike a proper balance.
I especially welcome the committee's decision to lower the thresholds involved.
This is something I have been adamant in fighting for, not just on behalf of numerous small and medium-sized enterprises in my own region, but also for SMEs in general which, if it were not for these low thresholds, would miss out entirely on funding which is there to help them achieve the goals of the programme.
Thanks to the new proposed new thresholds, companies could work together or alone in putting forward innovative projects that will benefit the industry as a whole.
Keeping the original thresholds would mean that small businesses had once again been ignored by the European Union, which would seem to be merely interested - from the Commission's own comments - in showcase schemes.
In order to advance the immediate aims of the Marco Polo Programme - those of improving the environmental performance of freight transport and reducing road congestion, albeit in a relatively small way - this lowering of subsidy thresholds is crucial.
I also view as a welcome addition to this report, and one that well accompanies the reduction in these thresholds, the simplified definitions.
Indeed, these definitions could well prove to be the difference between companies not fully understanding the system - and hence not bothering to apply - and SMEs having much greater confidence in approaching the Commission with bids for their own innovative projects.
I agree with the Commission that congestion threatens both the environment and the operational working of the whole freight transport sector.
It is therefore imperative that we concentrate, in practical ways, on how to defuse these bottlenecks, especially around sea ports.
It would be wrong to infer that only large-scale projects can reduce bottlenecks.
Thus, given the final outcome of the report in committee, I reiterate the necessity of our open approach - the carrot rather than the stick - designed to encourage the participation of the business community.
I understand that the Council is anxious to reduce the amount of money being made available for this project.
The purpose of the Marco Polo programme is to reduce the social costs of traffic and, obviously, this basic idea and aim are very much worthy of support.
For this reason I cannot agree with what it says in the White Paper, that shares between the various transport modes should be retained and frozen at their present level until 2010.
It is true that road transport is responsible for a lot of congestion and pollution, but that is due to the fact that there simply is no other means of transport that compares to it.
We should establish good incentives for different modes of transport and consider their overall costs, their benefits and their disadvantages to society as a whole.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Marco Polo is a well thought-out instrument that is designed to promote a shift in freight transport from road to more environmentally friendly modes of transport, and this at international level.
It is a practical instrument that will help us to achieve the aim that we have in transport policy, which is, as you know, to stabilise the modal split at its 1998 levels, or restore it to those levels.
Other measures that we envisaged in the White Paper - for example, the first railway package, which we have already adopted, and the second, which we are now working on; cross-financing from road to rail; charges for heavy goods vehicles; internalising external costs - will all only have an effect in the long term or at the very earliest in the medium term if we really get them on track.
The first is a proposal to extend the scope to include intermodal transport.
My group opposes the rapporteur's Amendments Nos 8, 10 and 12, because they again seek to contribute, indirectly, to subsidising road freight transport.
Secondly, we must reject an extension of the scope to transport prevention actions.
My group opposes the amendments re-tabled by the Greens, seeking in addition to carry out actions on transport prevention on this tight budget.
Together we agreed in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism that we do not want any distortions of competition between the environmentally acceptable modes of transport.
We have lowered the minimum subsidy thresholds for the actions, as the rapporteur has explained; we have judged cooperation between operators involved in cross-border transport projects - for example in corridor conferences - to be worthy of support, and we want a budget increase to be reconsidered as part of the mid-term review.
I hope that the Council and the Commission will respond to our ideas quickly so that the programme can start next year, because the increasing problems with road freight transport mean that delay is not an option.
The need to improve the freight transport system in terms of the environment is a vital one, with the amount of traffic continually growing.
Our group supports the Marco Polo programme and is satisfied with the Committee's proposal.
No mode of transport should be excluded from the programme.
The aim must be to move from a more polluting mode of transport to more environmentally friendly transport solutions.
In my opinion, it is important that we can also lend our support to improving the existing situation.
As the rapporteur said, threshold values for all types of action in the Commission proposal are too high.
Parliament's amendments will not radically alter the essentials, but will make certain points in the Commission proposal clearer.
We support Amendment No 29 tabled by the Group of the Greens and other amendments which aim to prevent and reduce unnecessary traffic.
The programme's budget is fairly modest and the objectives are very ambitious.
We must in addition investigate the possibility of additional finance for important infrastructure projects that supplement the Europe-wide traffic networks.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are all aware of the existing congestion on European roads and the significant external costs of goods transport by road, such as accidents, noise, pollution, climatic effects, the provision and maintenance of infrastructures etc.
But this is nothing compared to the bleak predictions of what the future may hold if we do not implement measures to deal with these threats.
We therefore need to adopt measures which, far from affecting our economic growth and progress, guarantee its sustainability.
At the same time, as well as a common political will on cross-border projects, we must promote the prevention and reduction of transport needs.
Road transport takes centre stage in the plans of the new Dutch Government.
Considerable investments in infrastructure for the benefit of road transport will not only promote supply, but also demand.
This is why we welcome initiatives such as PACT and Marco Polo as incentives that encourage investments in true solutions and alternatives for (the problems of) road transport in the areas of research, development and operation.
The fact that we enthuse about the Marco Polo programme does not mean that we would not like to make a few minor observations.
Initiatives within road transport that lead to a reduction in road miles should also be supported by the Marco Polo programme.
In addition, the programme must be tailored to the situation in the sector or sectors.
Large projects are bound to have a greater impact, but given the size of most businesses, it is questionable whether such projects will get off the ground in large numbers.
Subsidy thresholds must be lowered in order to reach the entire sector, whilst the current budget level must be maintained.
This lowering of subsidy thresholds is also important for extending sustainable transport services.
I should like to finish off with a remark about the effects of this programme on the various sectors.
In my view, the conditions imposed on actual support by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism are fair and logical.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on the granting of Community financial assistance to improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system has much to recommend it.
However, there is also much - if not even more - to criticise.
For my country, Austria, this is an absolutely fundamental political issue.
The instruments provided to achieve this are also sensible: start-up support for new, non-road freight transport services, which should however be economically viable in the medium term; support for launching freight services or facilities of strategic European interest, and common learning actions to foster more cooperation in the freight logistics market.
The individual amendments proposed by the European Parliament in the Bradbourn report are also good.
EUR 115 million may be a lot of money, but it is spread over five years and the Marco Polo programme is a different situation yet again for all of the measures that were mentioned just now.
I am sure Marco Polo will be even more popular in the United Kingdom.
After all, only by encouraging the 15 railway companies to work together can some of the artificial national barriers to free movement be removed.
Marco Polo will make a difference there.
Finally, and most importantly, let us not get carried away with our own rhetoric.
The PSE Group urges the Commissioner to encourage more actions like this and encourage the Member States themselves to take on board their own responsibilities to encourage modal shift in a much more dramatic and radical way than we have seen in the past.
The goal of the Marco Polo programme should, in fact, be extended, so that the programme can also contribute to the search for and development of more sustainable transport systems.
The amount of EUR 150 million has already been mentioned, and this is precious little to follow up PACT, a programme that already proved successful.
Lorries are at their most environmentally friendly when they are off the road.
The Marco Polo programme only deals with other transport, not less transport.
A programme such as Marco Polo must be more ambitious than the current draft.
The European Union's aim is to grow annually in economic terms.
We therefore insist that projects aimed at transport prevention also be given scope within a programme such as Marco Polo and should not be discounted from the outset.
Our government in particular seems well capable of making its own mess of our transport policy without any help from the Commission and its jargon.
Mr President, I welcome this programme to shift freight transport from road to short sea journeys, inland waterways and rail, and also the aim of holding the amount of freight on roads at the present level until 2010.
Regarding SMEs, I hope that the Commission's aim of funding large projects, while understandable, does not mean the exclusion of smaller projects which are more likely to be placed in smaller, peripheral Member States which are nonetheless in great need of help and support in this area.
I think of my own country in this context, with its poor road, rail and inland waterway infrastructure.
I welcome this programme, but it should not exclude smaller innovative projects which are deserving of support.
Ireland has benefited greatly from EU funding to develop its rail and road infrastructure.
I want to raise a serious problem that has arisen in relation to the completion of the M50 in the Carrickmines area of Dublin.
I am calling on the Commission to intervene urgently to have the construction of this road stopped until a full review is carried out as to why the environmental impact study did not identify this major archaeological site when it was identified by a state-sponsored organisation, An Foras Forbartha, in 1983.
This is a major issue that needs to be addressed as a matter of urgency by the Commission.
Mr President, I am delighted with the Commission proposal on the Marco Polo programme which should contribute towards a shift in the transport of goods from road mainly to short sea and inland shipping, and soon also to rail.
At present, the White Paper is before us in Parliament and if there is something we are all agreed on, it is that something should be done to prevent a total standstill.
We are already very happy if, with Marco Polo, we can persuade the sectors involved to be more resourceful in thinking of ways of transporting goods from A to B.
Parliament wants to give the sectors involved a clear signal.
I am delighted that both the Commission and the Parliament share largely the same vision on how to actively promote sustainable transport.
In particular, I am happy to see that the Parliament supports the Commission with regard to the overall budgetary envelope of the programme.
Coming to the proposed amendments, you will not be surprised to hear that the Commission can accept a large number of them, possibly with redrafting or even unchanged in so far as they improve or clarify the Commission's texts.
However, there are some amendments which, in our view, would not be conducive to the overall goals and management of the programme.
The Commission rejects these amendments or parts of them.
Amendments 14, 15, 21 and 24 aiming at lowering the contract thresholds will not help us to generate projects which by their size are of real European added value.
This will also help the Commission to manage the Marco Polo programme effectively.
While I understand the concerns of the Parliament, the date proposed will not give us enough time to gain experience with the programme.
Using the term inter-modal action as proposed in Amendments 8, 9, 12 and 28 may carry the risk that we narrow the scope of Marco Polo and exclude important segments of the freight transport sector such as bulk and conventional traffic, which are not inter-modal.
The Commission must also reject Amendment 10 and part of Amendment 17 aiming at including road transport actions in the programme.
As for the second part of Amendment 28, modal shift between non-road modes is not within the scope of the programme because it would lead to unacceptable distortions of competition and does not focus on the main overall programme objective.
We cannot accept the reduction of the central steering role of the Commission in complex logistical projects as proposed by Amendment 18.
The detailed financial rules requested by Amendments 25, 26 and 31 seem superfluous as general financial instruments provide for enough control and monitoring.
Finally, the Commission cannot support part of Amendments 2 and 28, referring to the formation of a common political will in cross-border transport projects as political decision-makers are not targeted by the programme.
Thank you very much, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00.
The European employment strategy must be combined with the national employment strategies in the Member States and must also be rolled out at regional and local levels.
It may perhaps appear self-evident that national action plans should be decided upon and discussed in the national parliaments, but that does not in actual fact happen in any Member State today.
First of all, administrative coordination must also result in coordination in the working environment.
Secondly, the Commission's synchronisation report is concerned, to my surprise, with only two processes, namely the economy and employment.
I would therefore urge the Commission to stick by the Lisbon decisions, which emphasise both economic growth and social integration, which give just as much weight to the quality of working life as to the quantity of work produced and which make full employment, viewed in the light of sustainability, a prime objective.
I also want to underline the value of the open method of coordination, which invites the Member States to take part in a learning and development process that can be far more effective than the traditional way in which legislation is steered through.
I should finally also like to address the absent Council of Ministers, which will meet on 8 October and say that it is not enough to take certain steps to simplify a bureaucratic European cooperation process.
There is also a need to set political priorities and to take practical initiatives that will lead to action and that are based on the decisions taken in Lisbon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the communication being debated today is based on the evaluation by the Commission and the Member States of five years of the employment strategy in practice.
The results are important and I should like to reiterate a number of them.
Ten million jobs have been created in Europe, as the result both of economic growth in previous years and efficient reforms on numerous job markets.
We have seen important structural changes in most Member States, qualitative changes in employment policies and numerous countries have made progress in energising the job market, preventing long-term unemployment, introducing the most employment-friendly tax systems yet, gradually adapting education and training systems and introducing more flexible labour standards.
Much still remains to be done and this is set out every year in the Commission's common report and guidelines.
I fully endorse the three priorities which you have set: first, the need to increase the rate of employment in relation to the Lisbon objectives, secondly, the question of the quality of work and, thirdly, the need to reduce inequalities on the job market, and here I would highlight the question of inequalities at numerous levels, the gaps on the job market, be they skills gaps, inequalities at regional level or inequalities between the two sexes.
As far as inequalities between the Member States and the new countries after enlargement are concerned, I disagree with the proposal in the explanatory statement that we should operate with two parallel strategies.
We need a single strategy and common objectives, although naturally we shall use national recommendations to differentiate our message and accommodate the peculiarities of each country.
The European Parliament and the Commission also appear to agree on the need to rationalise the procedure.
We take the view that they should have a broad scope which covers the main factors which influence the level and quality of employment in our economy.
We have seen interesting examples of regional and local employment strategies over the past 5 years, local action plans on employment have been submitted, and this was a successful initiative.
The commitment and contribution of the two sides of industry is very important.
And as far as the involvement of civil society is concerned, it is still early days as regards any decisive involvement of civil society in employment policies.
The parliamentary Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has already organised events with national parliaments on exchanging experience and information and we believe that this should continue but that, in future proposals, starting with the debate in the Convention, the national parliaments should play a more important part in national action plans and the European Parliament should play a more important part in the European procedure.
My last comment has to do with bringing the European Employment Strategy into line with the general economic policy guidelines, as proposed in our communication of 3 September.
We hope that, in adopting this proposal, which I presented to Parliament the day it was adopted, we will achieve greater cohesion between the two strategies, without calling the independence of the employment strategy in question.
The purpose of the communication taking stock of the strategy, together with the communication on rationalisation, is to start an open debate on the future of the European employment strategy.
After five years in practice, I think that your report has made a valuable contribution and that the Council will do likewise at its meeting on 8 October, when one of the basic issues of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs will be the debate on the evaluation and the future of the employment strategy.
In order to broaden and facilitate this debate, the Commission intends to publish a further communication in January which, as far as the timing of specific proposals is concerned, will come halfway between the communications already approved and the proposal for the 2003 guidelines.
This means we shall have two-and-a-half months in which to conduct an in-depth debate.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when the European Employment Strategy was adopted five years ago it was seen as an important step towards combating unemployment.
The very ambitious aim is to make the European Union into the most dynamic knowledge-based economic area in the world, but this is not only significant in terms of the economy; there are also clear implications for social policy.
In 1997 there were 17 million people unemployed in the European Union.
The Member States must, by creating the appropriate conditions, by policy-making and by negotiating constructively with the social partners, create higher quality jobs, in particular in the full-time sector.
In my opinion, which was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, we criticise the fact that the Member States still have not set any employment rates for women in their national action plans.
In the Committee on Equal Opportunities and Women's Rights we addressed one further interesting issue: how better to reconcile work and family life.
The main points in my opinion were accepted unanimously by the lead committee, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
My work in the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities was not the only say that I had in the Schmid report, because I was also the shadow rapporteur for my group, the PPE, in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
We do not agree that the open coordination method needs to be extended to all areas of social policy.
Mr President, I am delighted that we are having a debate on this vitally important subject.
It is clear that many Member States still have much to do to reduce high levels of unemployment.
I agree with the rapporteur that job creation is a major challenge.
The causes are clear, the actions required are clear.
The social partners may well have a very useful role in some countries and in some cases but, given that the majority of employment growth is coming from SMEs whose employees are beholden neither to big business nor to big unions, it is hard to see how such a move would be positive for job creation.
Certainly we must all put job creation at the top of our own agendas.
During the five years that it has been applied, unemployment has gone down, the number of jobs has increased and, for example, the active labour market policy, which was previously being conducted at a very low level in Europe, has now been considerably improved, partly through lifelong learning.
Those who already have a high level of education also help themselves to most of the education offered in the labour market, and those who have least education do not obtain as much.
I myself think that the pillar structure has been valuable as a structural instrument, because some parts of the pillar structure have been more successful than others.
The employability pillar has been relatively successful, and the equality pillar has also been successful in the sense that female employment has increased, even though a lot remains to be done.
All these factors must be improved in the future.
It is easy, both at national and European levels, to allow economic policy and the economic process to take precedence over the socio-political dimension and considerations relating to employment policy.
Since there is no qualified majority in the Council on the issue of the objectives, it is reasonable for the European Parliament to have the right of co-decision concerning these objectives.
It is only fair that we should have democratic control, both at European and national levels, where these important issues are concerned.
It is also important, as mentioned in our proposal, for the candidate countries to be integrated into this process at an early stage.
There are a number of differences between the candidate countries and our own countries, but there are also similarities.
Demographic developments and the demands they make upon the labour market are similar in the candidate countries.
Moreover, we want to see a clearer link between employment policy and existing economic instruments, namely the European Social Fund and Equal.
The employment strategy underlying those instruments must be made clear; clearer, that is to say, than it is at present.
We have all of us raised the issue of whether the European employment policy has worked, and we have of course genuinely obtained a situation in which countries are speaking more of a common language in some areas.
On the other hand, I think that open coordination should continue to be intergovernmental, and it must be flexible.
It is therefore important that no change be made by the back door to the character of employment policy by, for example, giving Parliament the right of co-decision.
It is also essential to ensure coordination with economic policy.
There must therefore, of course, be better coordination, and I am able to welcome the initiatives the Commission is working on in this area.
Mr President, Commissioner, on the basis of the information concerning the implementation of employment guidelines, the report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs proposes several improvements, emphasising job creation and training.
He makes a series of other proposals with which I agree, and I would like to join previous speakers in congratulating him.
Thousands of Vivendi group employees are anxious.
They know that they will not have the same redundancy payments as their former employer, Jean-Marie Messier.
Total Fina Elf, which has made huge profits, is skimping on compensation to casualties of the AZF disaster in Toulouse and is considering a social plan involving 1500 employees of its subsidiary, Atofina.
Alcatel has announced 23 000 job losses by the end of 2003.
In the textiles sector, within Alstom and Avantis, businesses have closed or are starting to close.
Every day, experience shows us that there can be no true social and employment policy that responds to employees' interests, the needs of the people, while economic policies remain tightly corseted by the stability pact and remain based on exacerbated competition and reduced labour costs.
No real progress can be made, however, if the citizens themselves are not involved in decisions, if there is no effective social dialogue on the challenges of European construction, which are far more wide-reaching than the institutional aspects currently being addressed by the Convention.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Schmid, thank you for the report and thank you for looking into the situation.
It is actually regrettable that we talk about creating 10 million jobs - in the knowledge that this largely depends on the economic climate - but cannot gauge accurately whether, and if so, how, this is related to policy.
Or you may be facing cross-border workers in a room of 600 people who say: 'Yes, very nice, this free movement between Belgium and the Netherlands, but how about adapting the social security systems?' This is an underdeveloped area.
I could quite easily go on like this for a while and fill my 3 minutes very quickly.
I think we should persist with the open coordination method, but should at the same time consider very critically whether it should be applied to other areas, and many more, without any further consideration.
This could mean that we will need to bring elements of current economic policy into line with a number of elements of these other objectives.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his tremendous work on this report.
I would also like to thank the Commissioner for some of the hints she has given us on what she hopes to achieve in the coming year with regard to these guidelines and strategies.
However, when the role of the entrepreneur or business in creating jobs is taken away, then the reality of the employment-creation quandary is undermined.
Secondly, where incentives are given to entrepreneurs and to businesses to invest in new jobs, in new infrastructure and in research and development, giving a longer-lasting guarantee to the creation of manufacturing in other service jobs.
Thirdly, a very solid and continuously evolving education and training system, because the real tools we should use to adapt our workforce to the present, as well as future, conditions are those of education and knowledge.
There is a depth of knowledge within the European Union, amongst people between the ages of 45 and 60, that is going untapped, a resource that is being lost because of ignorance, because of a lack of innovative thinking or simply because of a lack of a properly-structured training programme to allow them to adapt to the new market forces and employment opportunities available.
That must be the underlying basis of our strategies with regard to the quality of jobs, work and employment opportunities available - the kinds of skills that we give to people.
The fourth point concerns competitiveness.
Likewise, who would have thought five years ago when this strategy was first implemented that the number of long-term unemployed would still continue to be the same five years later?
Instead of revising them every year, why not make it every three or four years to ensure again that they can be seen to operate within the mechanisms and systems that they are emerging from?
Next, as many speakers have mentioned, there is a need to coordinate the broad economic policies with regard to employment strategy, to ensure that the two match.
Some people say that there is a tension between these two ideals.
My last point is that we need to continue investing in people, because no matter how many figures and statistics are put before us the bottom line is that we are talking about one single individual person who has lost out on an opportunity within the European Union.
Mr Schmid, whom I shall take this opportunity to congratulate, highlights the positive effects and also some of the less successful aspects of the European Employment Strategy in the last five years.
One of the problems that needs to be resolved is the poor transposition of the Strategy at the decision-making level in the field of employment.
The open method of coordination is an important instrument for the implementation of this strategy.
As everyone knows, this was designed for sectors in which the Member States retain their autonomy.
Differences still remain, however, between national interests and European interests, hence the suggestion that every government should incorporate the national action plan into the development of common policies in the field of employment.
The active support of the social partners and their contribution to the implementation and the integration of the Strategy's priorities into their annual programmes is particularly relevant in areas such as lifelong learning, active ageing, equality between men and women and the modernisation of the organisation of work.
Account must also be taken of the consequences of enlargement for the current labour market in the European Union.
If we are going to be able to improve the current situation between the common global policy at European level and the adoption of policies at national level, adjustments must be made to economic development, by harnessing human resources and creating new institutional structures, but also by strengthening the entrepreneurial spirit.
In Portugal, the National Employment Plan transposes the content of the Strategy to the Portuguese situation in an attempt to respond to the new challenges.
In recent years, the Portuguese labour market has generally performed well.
Amongst these weaknesses I would highlight: the low level of training, the significant effects of long-term and extremely long-term unemployment, the existence of a group with special difficulties in rejoining the labour market, comprising young people, older workers, women, ethnic minorities and persons with disabilities, a sectoral and entrepreneurial structure with serious shortcomings, low productivity, considerable regional inequalities.
Lastly, I should like to emphasise that, in order for economic and national employment policies to be effectively coordinated and coherent, and to guarantee the effective achievement of the European Employment Strategy, the possibilities of the open method of coordination must be improved and exploited, without losing sight of the requirement for this method always to make transparency its top priority.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a successful European project which five years ago still had a host of detractors and which has earned the right for its fame to spread beyond a handful of experts.
Since 1997, around 10 million new jobs have been created.
We do not wish, for the time being in any case, to change the pillar structure.
The assessment of the first and fourth pillars was favourable.
On the basis of my own experience in the Member States I would say that the first pillar - employability, which deals above all with further education and training - is still far too haphazard, arbitrary and shortsighted.
I believe that the considerable success we have been able to see here is also due to the fact, Commissioner, that equal opportunities policy has been supported on several occasions by anti-discrimination legislation.
The European Social Fund is certainly an effective instrument, but we Europeans should also link it to the fulfilment of certain obligations by the Member States.
Commissioner, my group stands by your side.
The national employment plans are often still seen as secret government documents, their contents unknown to national Members of Parliament and the public.
In its report, the Commission admits unhesitatingly that the European employment strategy cannot take all the credit for the increase in employment over the past couple of years.
This worries me greatly, because at present, we are clearly heading for a recession, and this is exactly a time when we need an effective strategy.
From the Commission communication, it appears that older employees and women still get a rough deal in the area of employment.
In many Member States, the public is struggling with the notion that the husband can also apply for parental leave.
In terms of best practices, I believe that a country such as Sweden can certainly be held up as an example.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the balance-sheet of five years of the European Employment Strategy demonstrates that major shortcomings remain in the creation of quality jobs with rights.
Most of the jobs created during these years have been precarious, part-time or very short-term, and which fail to guarantee that equal rights and opportunities will be complied with.
As stated in the report by Herman Schmid, whom I wish to congratulate on his work, unemployment remains at high levels, and long-term unemployment in particular is one of the main causes of social exclusion in Europe, to which we can add precarious and poorly paid work.
Account must, therefore, be taken of these issues if we are to achieve positive results in the creation of jobs with rights.
But what is important is that all the Member States are starting to change the way they design their national policies, mainly by shifting their priorities from managing unemployment to managing an increase in employment.
I should like to focus in my speech on a number of issues which other honourable Members have also raised this evening.
I should like to mention something that has happened in my country, which has made me sit up and think.
Everyone trumpets how important they are in keeping the place clean, creating green spaces, with the odd allusion to social policy for good measure; but never that they can mobilise local forces and create jobs.
This relates directly to the issue raised this evening, an issue which I too vigorously endorse, namely the need to coordinate employment policy and social policy.
This is a question of social policy, for which the Member States are responsible; but it is also a question of social responsibility, an issue of concern to the European Parliament and for which the social partners are responsible.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's stocktaking exercise illustrates very clearly how important it has been even to reflect on strategies at European level because, although responsibility for labour market policy lies with the national governments, when it comes to economic policy and social policy it really is time that we recognised that the internal market has contributed to making our national economies interdependent and at the same time to creating interdependent living and working conditions, with the result that we are quite simply compelled, as the European Parliament, as a European institution, also to find an adequate response to this challenge.
That is why this stocktaking exercise actually does nothing other than invite us to join up procedures even more closely, and to support the Commission's streamlining initiative in economic, employment and social policy so that we gain even better instruments in these fields.
Allow me to make three further comments on practical and comprehensive actions which seek actually to increase employment intensity in the European Union and which are in particular also very important from an economic policy point of view.
In addition, it should also be said that initiatives to promote entrepreneurship and small and medium-sized enterprises need to be more closely interlinked than has been possible in the past.
Thirdly, and this concerns the Employment Guidelines in particular, we should also consider whether we might establish a link with the guidelines in competition policy, that is in policy on state aids, where we of course have specific rules, so as to have exemptions to the ban on state aid when small and medium-sized enterprises are being promoted or jobs created.
Mr President, at a time when unemployment is high in the countries of the European Union, it is vital to draw up a European employment strategy.
Furthermore, any employment strategy should commit the Member States to taking the initiative in creating the hundreds of thousands of jobs lacking in all the Member States of the European Union, in hospitals, the public transport sector, the postal sector, or in education.
Under these conditions, talk about an employment strategy is nothing but pious hopes.
In fact, like many of my fellow Members, I consider that the European employment strategy we have known over the past five years has, to varying degrees, perhaps, depending on the regions, been effective and has benefited the citizens of Europe.
However, I believe the time has now come to review its structure and also to propose a new strategy that takes full account of the coordination of macro-economic, social and employment policies.
From this perspective, we have just reviewed every aspect of European employment strategy during the last five years and proposals have been made regarding the guidelines to follow.
The first point concerns the necessary relationship between the European employment strategy and national employment plans and in this respect, I believe it is a question of the relationship with citizens and the understanding citizens may have of European strategies that affect them.
The employment situation is deteriorating.
The European Union's efforts to set up employment strategies should target people in difficulty.
However, those who should be able to benefit from the actions are in fact the most disillusioned, the most critical and those who least understand our positions and the proposals we are making.
The second point - on which, I believe, everyone agrees - is that, in order to be effective, the European employment policy should really be an integral part, in socio-economic terms, of European policies.
Lastly, in conclusion, I think we need to review the subject of the social instruments used by Europe.
In fact, even if we reach an agreement on the objectives to be achieved, we still need to provide ourselves with suitable instruments with which to implement them.
Serious account will be taken of Parliament's proposals and opinions and I should like to touch on four points which were raised several times this evening.
The first is the basis on which the employment strategy is being developed.
The need to achieve competitiveness and cohesion at one and the same time means, as several honourable Members have pointed out, that we need to couple employment strategies and policies and social policy; in other words, they cannot be segregated and we need to take account of social policy issues every step of the way.
One of the basic problems we identified during our evaluation was the involvement of national parliaments, which need to assume a more important role, and of social partners and of local authorities, as regards the regional and local application of the employment strategy.
Finally, I should like to refer to the method itself as a tool, as Mrs Gillig quite rightly pointed out; a tool which we are using for the first time.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This is acceptable once in a while, but I should nevertheless like to ask those who draft the agenda to switch things around and to schedule economic policy and agricultural policy, for example, this late on the agenda, which would allow us to discuss our reports in the afternoon and prevent Mrs Diamantopoulou and us always having to sit here burning the midnight oil.
Why has a report been drafted on the representation of women among the social partners?
Firstly, because there has been an enormous increase in the number of working women.
Despite this, the social partners require - and we grant them this with pleasure - a large proportion of the power in Europe and the Member States, for it is, of course, a fact that the collective labour agreements they conclude, and which therefore also affect women, generally have force of law.
If you were to ask any Member State what the proportion of women is in employers' organisations, you would not get a reply, any figures or data.
This mandate, however, runs over four years, and I hope, Commissioner, that it will not be four years before steps are taken.
Hence our theory.
Of course, there has been an increase in the number of working women over recent years, but remember that Beijing concluded ten years ago that, if we continue at this rate, we shall achieve equal numbers in 2500 years.
It is true that we have little information on the under-representation of women in social partner structures and on their lack of involvement in social dialogue negotiations.
It is also true that this deficit, this problem, is not acknowledged in political circles.
In fact, while we often hear about the absence of women from parliaments, from governments, from local and regional authorities, we rarely hear about the absence of women among the social partners.
So we too need persuading, as European institutions, as national governments and as social partners, that the involvement of women in decision-making procedures within the social partnership will not merely add credentials to their authority and quality to democracy; it will also, in the final analysis, promote our development objectives, since it will help increase employment, improve the quality of work and increase productivity and competitiveness.
As far as the involvement of women in decision-making processes is concerned, it is the only opportunity to take account of the demands of women, both employed and unemployed, to develop social responsibility for the benefit of working women, to create the conditions needed to develop creativity in the workplace, to take account of specifically female aspects and to deal with wage differentials, which is the most basic problem of all.
So we need a broad information and awareness-raising campaign in every direction and to motivate working women themselves, because they too must take their share of the responsibility.
This report seeks to take stock of the situation in the social and political fields, of the representation of women among the social partners.
There is very little information available about the participation of women inside the organisational structures and internal decision-making bodies of the social partners, while even less information is available about the gender-specific composition of delegations of negotiators in the social dialogue.
The development of the social dialogue at European level will certainly yield benefits in terms of influence, effectiveness and success in the pursuit of the objectives if more gender balance is developed at all levels, including in the socio-economic context.
Mr President, Commissioner, although the European institutions have in various documents highlighted the need for a more balanced and proportional representation of women in the various decision-making structures and political and social bodies, also where the social partners are concerned, the fact is that profound imbalances and enormous inequalities still remain, as Mrs Smet's report points out, and as Commissioner Diamantopoulou confirmed a short while ago.
We therefore support the initiatives proposed in this report, both those that seek to obtain a greater knowledge of the current situation (and the need for data collection has already been mentioned here), and those intended to achieve a more balanced representation of men and women among the social partners.
Objective conditions must be established, however, to ensure that the participation of women in the social and political bodies becomes a reality.
The Commission must also create a database and good practices must be disseminated, including in the joint report on employment, sharing information on the participation of women, and specifically in collective bargaining, and also on the progress made in the field of equal opportunities.
While good statistics are available in parliaments and national institutions, there are still not any satisfactory surveys of the social partners.
These projects were successful and are therefore worth replicating and the others failed and we should try to understand what we can learn from them.
There are therefore sufficient reasons for drawing up this own-initiative report.
One of the issues that must be addressed if we are to ensure that women - and in particular working women - can participate and that they get time off work in order to pursue trade union activities, is that of employers being extremely reluctant to allow workers to have time off to pursue either training or trade union activities.
The only slight criticism I would have of some of the statistics in the report is that they are out of date.
Mr President, the only point of the fallacious symmetry established between the under-representation of women in managerial organisations, on the one hand, and trade unions, on the other, is to show that there are still far fewer women in managerial organisations than in trade unions, even though managers face no material obstacles to this other than the misogyny of the managerial environment.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Constitution of my country solemnly states, in Article 14, that all 'Spaniards are equal before the law, without any discrimination for reasons of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion, or any other political or social condition or circumstance'; and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in Article 20, Chapter III, states that 'Everyone is equal before the law'; and in Article 21 that 'Any discrimination based on any ground such as sex,?..shall be prohibited', and other circumstances are stipulated; and Article 23, under the heading 'Equality between men and women' lays down that 'Equality between men and women must be ensured in all areas, including employment, work and pay.
The principle of equality shall not prevent the maintenance or adoption of measures providing for specific advantages in favour of the under-represented sex.' If we compare these general principles, these solemn declarations, with social reality, with the everyday world we live in, specifically in terms of the achievement of women's equality in the field of representation amongst the European Union's social partners, one conclusion immediately springs to mind: there is still much to do.
Women make up approximately 40% of the members of the trade unions in the European Union, but there is no proportionality between their presence within the membership of the trade unions, on the one hand, and within the decision-making and governing bodies of the trade unions, on the other.
We therefore need strategies aimed at increasing the presence of women amongst the social partners and I believe that an artificial system of quotas is not the right or desired solution or approach.
A fairer society - in a European Union in which 42% of working people are women - cannot tolerate an under-representation of women in the bodies and structures within which social interlocutors meet to define, regulate and agree on issues relating to social policy.
I believe that the horizontal integration of the gender dimension into the different policies, the action programmes - preferably measures to reconcile work and family life - the efforts of the social agents themselves, training and information, measures to stimulate the participation of women, positive actions and action programmes, are ways to achieve equality and this, in turn, is a means, an instrument, for building a better, fairer and more caring society through social dialogue.
In order to remedy the glaringly obvious shortfall in the representation of women in the decision-making structures and bodies of the social partners, three measures, in particular, are to be emphasised.
First: we need to know where we are now and where we want to be.
In my country, for example, the rate of women in employment has been steadily increasing and is one of the highest in the European Union.
Reliable data are difficult to come by, as has already been stated here several times.
Lastly, I wish to remind you that various studies confirm that the presence of women in decision-making bodies and in collective bargaining has a very positive impact on the implementation of equal opportunities policy.
Therefore, the balanced representation of men and women, apart from being a democratic imperative for the social partners, will lead to a more favourable working and organisational environment.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bastos.
The debate is closed.
I therefore agree with the rapporteur on the need to adopt the Council common position as rapidly as possible and without amendments, given that most of the amendments tabled by Parliament have been taken into account, whilst new elements have also been incorporated, which have helped to improve the clarity of the text under our consideration.
Tourism and the way in which travel agencies operate has changed dramatically in the last 25 years, following the adoption of the special VAT arrangements for this sector.
The special arrangements defined in the sixth Directive are finding it increasingly difficult to match the current needs of this sector.
The myriad derogations from which various EU countries benefit and the privileged situation of third-country travel agencies with regard to VAT has led to unfair competition or to the practice of the most powerful companies setting up branches in third countries - Switzerland, for example - in order to avoid their tax obligations to the European Community.
The Commission proposal warrants our vote.
I therefore propose a practical method of collecting VAT imposed on third-country travel agencies that sell products in the European Union or to individuals resident in the Community; the same method, in fact, that Parliament adopted for electronic commerce.
I am not indulging in hyperbole, however - especially in an extremely sensitive area such as this - and I regret the fact that both the rapporteur and the specialist committee have opted for a hyperbolic and frankly excessive approach, which goes far beyond what is necessary.
In the Languedoc area, for example, where flooding in September destroyed 4000 hectares of vineyards.
Disastrous, because 2003 will be the last year before we jump into the bottomless pit of globalisation without a safety net.
It is also the beginning of our descent down the slippery slope of enlargement, with the accession of the Eastern European agricultural countries bringing unknown costs in real terms.
