New regulations on visas for Western Balkan countries (Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia) (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on new regulations on visas for Western Balkan countries (Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia).
It shows how important we all believe it to be that the people of the Western Balkans are brought closer to the European Union.
It is undoubtedly the most important issue for the citizens of the Balkan region as far as their present links with the EU are concerned.
In 2007, the EU embarked upon a process intended to result in visa requirements being removed for the countries of the Western Balkans.
Liberalisation of the visa requirements that apply to citizens of the Western Balkans is an important measure that will strengthen ties between this region and the European Union.
Consequently, the Commission's proposal that was submitted on 15 July is very much to be welcomed.
It is proposed that in a first step, the visa requirement will be removed for citizens of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia, which have biometric passports.
The aim is that on 1 January 2010, we will liberalise the visa requirements for these citizens and later extend this to other countries once they also meet the conditions required.
Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina will not be included in this first decision on visa exemption, but they are not being left in the lurch.
The EU will do all it can to help and support these two countries in their efforts to achieve their objectives, particularly as regards the rule of law.
The Council has only just begun its discussions on the Commission's proposal, but the Presidency will work hard to ensure that we can reach agreement as soon as possible.
In view of the incredible significance of this proposal politically, I am sure that we are in agreement on the goal, which is to conclude this process as quickly as possible with satisfactory results, so that visa liberalisation can become a reality as soon as possible.
Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister, Mrs Malmström, for everything she has told us, and which I will try to confirm on behalf of the Commission.
On 15 July, the Commission proposed the abolition of short-term visas for citizens of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia.
As you have underlined, Minister, this is obviously an historic moment in our relations with the Western Balkans.
This proposal for the abolition of visas is based on the progress made in the last six years in the areas of justice and home affairs, in accordance with the commitments made at Thessaloniki in 2003.
The Commission proposal has been submitted to the Council.
The Member States support the approach proposed by the Commission and confirm their intention to work in close cooperation with the European Parliament to guarantee the formal adoption of the text during your Presidency, Minister, the Swedish Presidency.
The goal is, in fact, to obtain visa exemptions for citizens of Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro on 1 January 2010.
The Commission's proposal is based on the results of the dialogue launched in the first half of 2008 with the five countries of the Western Balkans.
Having studied these reports, we can say that the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia meets all of the criteria in its road map.
Despite the very significant progress accomplished in the course of the last few months, Bosnia and Albania have not yet been able to complete the requisite reforms demanded in the road map, such as the abolition of visas.
On the basis of this analysis, the Commission, in response to the invitation made by the General Affairs Council in June 2009, has therefore proposed the abolition of the visa for the citizens of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia.
Indeed, since 1999, Serbia has not been able to provide verification for identity documents held by people from Kosovo.
In October, their authorities will submit supplementary information to the Commission on the progress made in recent months.
The formal adoption of the text by a majority of the Schengen countries should therefore take place during the Swedish Presidency, which will allow the effective introduction of this abolition of visas for citizens of these three countries from January 2010.
As you have said, Minister, all this means the possibility, particularly for the young generation in these Balkan countries, of participating much more in European life, of integrating into it, and we think that all of this can be extremely beneficial, both for these countries and for our Europe.
The Western Balkans are a central part of Europe and we must do our utmost to bring this important part back home to Europe.
I would also say that this is the first and most important sign that things really are moving in the right direction, and that one day, the final destination of these countries will be the European Union.
For this reason, we believe that the European Commission's decision should be reviewed to include Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a clear timetable setting out when these countries could be included in the visa-free regime, subject to fulfilling specific conditions.
Our question is therefore: when does the European Commission intend to initiate a dialogue on visas with Kosovo, and has it considered what the consequences would be, in terms of Kosovo's stability if this dialogue is not started as soon as possible?
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, the ALDE Group firmly and consistently supports the goal of EU accession for all the Western Balkan countries.
The way to keep Bosnia and Albania up to the mark would be to include them in the legal scope of this proposed regulation, but to make the actual implementation of visa waiver conditional on a Commission declaration of compliance - in fact, similar to that which the Commission needs to make this autumn about Serbia and Montenegro.
I cannot believe the Commission and the Council intend to pursue this damaging path.
They are already issuing biometric passports and have made about the same amount of progress on the other criteria.
I would like to say in Swedish 'tack' - or 'thank you' - for her speech, which in my language, in Polish, means 'yes' - and it is therefore a fitting word, as I fully agree with what she has told us on behalf of the Council today, even though I have some small but important comments.
In the first place, I really do not want this appropriate initiative of the Council, supported by the Commission, to be - to put it bluntly - some kind of alternative to the rapid accession of Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro to the European Union.
Madam President, on behalf of the Federal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, we believe that the Commission proposal to waive visas for citizens from Serbia, Montenegro and FYROM who have biometric passports is a step in the right direction and implements the European Union's commitment towards the people in this area, so that they can plan trips and travel to the rest of Europe without the need for a visa.
I must point out that, when it comes to the Western Balkans, we are talking about a traumatised area which recently experienced war and civil conflict for which the European Union and certain of its Member States bear responsibility.
That is why we believe that the visa waiver procedure for the citizens of all these countries is a very important step and will give them the opportunity to communicate with the peoples of the rest of Europe.
However, I cannot not point out the terms and conditions which, if I have understood correctly, bring a degree of uncertainty to whether the Council will approve the visa waiver for Montenegro and Serbia in October.
Firstly, for Kosovo which, unless I have misunderstood, is subject to Security Council resolution 1244 and, especially, for the Serbian minority living in a state of rural prison, guarded within geographical prisons, we are essentially refusing free communication.
However, I wish to single out FYROM.
However, you must surely understand that we cannot return to nationalism, the fostering of nationalism, in these countries, to the detriment of other Member States of the European Union. (DE) Madam President, that visa requirements for Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro are to be abolished shows that the reform efforts of these countries are clearly bearing fruit.
Clearly this has to do with the fact that Albania, Kosovo and Bosnia, which have not been included this time, are feeling disadvantaged.
Clearly people there prefer to cultivate old antagonisms, rather than ask themselves what their neighbouring states have done better and how progress can be achieved in order to earn visa waiver.
I hope we can agree on a clear message to the authorities in the region that we will support them but we will not compromise on the security of our citizens - that they have to take their responsibilities.
What we can do is to do our part in this Parliament to accelerate the process and make a decision, make our policy so that the Council can take a decision within this year. (SL) As you probably know, I am rapporteur for the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs regarding visa liberalisation for the Western Balkan countries.
In July, the European Commission sent us a proposal recommending the lifting of visa requirements for citizens of Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro.
Macedonia has already fulfilled all its obligations, whereas Montenegro and Serbia are required to meet the remaining conditions as soon as possible.
Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania are using a clear roadmap for the lifting of visa requirements and are aware of all the conditions that need to be met before that can happen.
Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular, achieved great progress on this score during the summer, judging by reports from independent organisations.
The decision to omit Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania from the list is primarily a technical one.
The fact is that it is the Bosniaks who have been omitted from the visa liberalisation process.
We must all take on a share of political responsibility for the implementation of this process, which will be a prerequisite for peace and stability in the Western Balkans.
We are dealing with people here, with their quality of life and mobility, and facilitating the closest cooperation possible, not least, economic cooperation. (SL) I congratulate Macedonia and hope that Montenegro and Serbia also get to the same stage.
The efforts made as regards Bosnia have been inadequate and insufficiently successful, and by this I mean both our efforts and theirs.
The Bosniaks are the only people in Bosnia who have not been allowed to travel freely throughout Europe.
The European Union shares responsibility for the situation in Bosnia and for the stability of the region.
Let us break down that wall and let us help Bosnia to get its visa requirements lifted, now, as soon as possible, in the same package as the other three countries in this region. (DE) Madam President, Mrs Malmström, Commissioner, we Greens obviously welcome visa liberalisation for Montenegro, Macedonia and Serbia.
That is something I campaigned for very strongly in recent years when I was still a member of the Austrian National Assembly.
As far as we are aware, Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina have still not implemented these technical measures in full.
However, since the announcement of the Commission's evaluation, measures have been taken in Bosnia and Herzegovina to combat corruption and a number of important laws have been set in motion, so that the technical preconditions can be met in autumn.
There is the question of the biometric passports; I know that not many have yet been issued and I would sincerely call on the Commission and some of the Member States to help issue these biometric passports.
You do not need to turn a blind eye, but you should set political standards, not just police standards. (SK) The liberalisation of visa policies in the Western Balkans is both a politically sensitive issue and a highly sensitive issue in human terms for the inhabitants of these states and this region.
At present, we are talking about Montenegro, Macedonia and Serbia, which is very important in a historical context, but we should not introduce a two-speed system in the Western Balkans on a long-term basis and we must bring Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular, into this process as quickly as possible and also Albania of course.
In my speech, I would therefore possibly like to ask not only the Council and the Commission but also everyone here in the European Parliament to support the leaders of the various states in their efforts and to provide them with assistance in respect of those issues that have yet to be resolved.
A vital contribution is made to these countries' political stability, knowing what entitlements they are granted with a passport from their own states and to what extent it is recognised by the European Union.
It would be unacceptable if the negative differentiation among the states in the region were to continue in the long term.
The European Union has the political responsibility to offer the Western Balkan countries the prospect of joining the European Union.
I too would like to welcome Mrs Cecilia Malmström and Commissioner Barrot.
We also know that, from this perspective, visa-free travel is the thing which people perhaps understand and feel the most.
In the case of Bosnia, as has been mentioned several times today, this decision is not only beneficial and important because Bosnia has now been left out, but also because a large number of Bosnian citizens who have a Croatian or Serbian passport will enjoy visa-free travel, while the remainder will not.
The same situation applies to Kosovan citizens too, so that anyone who can obtain their passport in Serbia will enjoy visa-free travel.
For this reason, it is our responsibility to help these countries achieve visa-free travel as soon as possible, within a very specific timeframe. (DE) Madam President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, I too share Mr Weber's security concerns, having spent ten years in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
Today we talk of Europeanisation, we send in troops and officials, we spend a great deal of money and, at the same time, we are imprisoning young people in these countries.
In other words, we must give Kosovo every opportunity, because if Serbia enjoys visa waiver in the long run and Kosovo is absolutely excluded, that will lead to unacceptable distortions.
Disintegration for Kosovo or Bosnia would endanger our security more than any technical details. (EL) Madam President, we must acknowledge that the visa waiver for Serbia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Montenegro is an important step towards the European integration of the Western Balkans.
On the other hand, we should not forget the peculiar status of Kosovo, whose independence is not recognised by all Member States of the European Union.
Let us not make this more of a political issue than is necessary, however.
Let us look at what remains to be done and how we can ensure as quickly as possible that Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania are soon also able to join the family of visa-free countries.
Bosnia and Herzegovina has made great progress recently and will soon have fulfilled most of the remaining requirements in the roadmap.
I therefore call on the players in Bosnia and Herzegovina to adopt the anti-corruption act and lay down rules for the exchange of information between the different parts of the police service as quickly as possible.
I hope that this can take effect in July 2010. (RO) Madam President, Commissioner, the visa waiver for some of the countries which belong to the Western Balkans region marks an initial confirmation of the European Union's commitment to continuing the European process of integration.
Citizens from Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina will not enjoy the same treatment, which is going to create differences between citizens in the Balkans.
However, this proposal will result in citizens of countries in the former Republic of Yugoslavia who do not benefit from the visa waiver trying to obtain a second passport in a country belonging to the former Yugoslav federation, which the European Union accepts without a visa.
However, at the same time, I believe that Europe is also a Europe of regulations which, as European citizens, every one of us must abide by.
You have put forward this proposal because you have assessed that the rules and conditions that we set have been met.
I feel that this process will help encourage the other two countries to perform better and meet these conditions because, since the adoption of this decision, the other three countries have proved that when they wanted their peoples to enjoy a different status, they were willing to do what it takes. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am in favour of liberalisation and of European integration up to and including the completion of this mosaic that is the Western Balkans because, as someone said earlier, we need the Balkans to be stable.
This integration is therefore crucial and must happen as soon as possible.
You will understand me perfectly well when I say that this gap makes it quite simple for people from the other countries to travel between Kosovo and Macedonia.
Can you tell me for certain whether the Commission or the Council have held talks with Croatia and Serbia about exercising restraint in the issuing of passports as it should be clear that their actions will create a great deal of unrest. (BG) I would like to congratulate Mr Barrot for the European Commission's position on liberalising the visa regime for the Western Balkans.
At the same time, however, as an MEP, I cannot but agree with Mrs Pack and Mrs Bildt that true European solidarity involves the European Union providing logistical help in meeting criteria rather than deviating from them, as this has a demoralising effect on societies and absolves governments of responsibility.
However, I believe that the citizens of the Republic of Moldova should enjoy the same rights regarding the freedom of movement in the EU as soon as possible.
The European Union must continue to develop its open-door policy to these countries, and the visa waiver is an important step on the path to European integration for these peoples.
This also holds true of areas as sensitive as police coordination between Banja Luka and Sarajevo.
I call on the Commission and the Council to monitor this progress on a continuing basis and to be responsive to it.
The European Union must be capable of bringing its influence to bear on any political forces in Bosnia and Herzegovina which are seeking to sabotage this process.
The citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina must not be allowed to suffer because of the irresponsibility of their politicians and we have an obligation to help them in that regard.
I call on the Commission to include Bosnia and Herzegovina within the visa-free zone as soon as possible.
I welcome every move that combats selectivity and firmly believe that lifting visa requirements for all those countries would certainly help improve the image of the European Union in the eyes of the people in these countries who need an opening on the world after years of conflict.
I would, therefore, urge the Council and the Commission to review their positions as soon as possible, to follow up the progress in these countries, and to lift visa requirements for the countries which were not included in the first group.
It is essential that Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina are included on the Schengen white list as soon as possible, and the Commission should provide all the necessary technical assistance to the authorities of these two countries in order to meet the necessary conditions in a short while.
That is why I am delighted that the conditions are already in place to give this opportunity to the three countries mentioned - the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia - at the end of the year.
It is regrettable that not all the countries of the Western Balkans can be included in this proposal at present, but let there be no doubt that the Swedish Presidency is extremely keen to strengthen the integration process - and eventually the enlargement process - in the Balkan region.
It is essential that we do so for the sake of the people of the Western Balkans as well as for the benefit of our own citizens.
I know that the people of Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina are disappointed.
However, it is up to the authorities and politicians in those countries to finish off the job.
I do not believe that a time lag between the removal of visas for the first three countries and for Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina will cause instability.
Where Kosovo is concerned, discussions on the visa regime started back when Kosovo was still part of Serbia, but we are working on finding a solution.
I hope that the Commission will point the way forward in its report so that in the longer term, we can also bring about visa liberalisation for the people of Kosovo.
It is true that in the case of Albania, the issuing of biometric passports still has to be improved.
I myself went to Albania to present the first biometric passport in that country and I can tell you that I gave as much encouragement as possible to see that Albania, its political leaders and those of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are fully aware of the efforts required.
I would also like to say to you quite simply that for us there is no question of ethnic or religious discrimination.
There is no question of discriminating against the 25 or 30% of Muslim Albanians in Macedonia.
Therefore, I would really like to reassure you and to tell you that this is part of a process that we have planned and that the Council has willingly accepted.
I will also give you an answer on Kosovo.
In March 2009, an expert mission funded by the Commission resulted in some positive findings.
It is quite clear that in all this we want to open this European perspective to all of the Balkan countries, and we are thinking in particular about the young generation.
That is what I can tell you, giving you the assurance, in any event, that the Commission's process is one which is objective, which is really very attentive and not at all conducted in a spirit of any sort of discrimination, but in a spirit of cooperation.
in writing. - (HU) The European Union has become stronger after every expansion, not only because it has created a common market for almost 500 million citizens, but also because it has guaranteed stability in Central and Eastern Europe.
The economic crisis or the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty must not delay the process leading to these countries' accession to the European Union.
