This will involve, for example, disposing of more than 32 million lots of used oil, removing break fluid, etc.
Vehicles already abandoned have also been abandoned by Community legislation, in that they are not taken into consideration either in the texts on emissions or in this text on end-of-life vehicles.
The only merit of this directive is that it looks to the future.
Such distortions in competition are not about environmental protection; they simply affect investment potential and the jobs of those building cars in Europe.
However, I would ask these colleagues to show solidarity with the more than 2 million people who make a living from building cars in Europe, so that these jobs can be secured in the future.
Firstly, because it clearly stipulates the environmental objectives.
Thirdly, because it sets out a clear procedure to combat pollution caused by heavy metals.
Secondly, we need to retain the details as they are included in the common position.
In my opinion, we should not jeopardise that common position, because it is a directive which we desperately need for environmental reasons.
Our group will, at any rate, do this as far as possible - for environmental reasons and because we have this directive which is well-balanced and encompasses a whole range of issues and difficulties including, for example, the way in which the costs are to be distributed.
Some of the socialists under the direction of Mr Bernd Lange say: yes, we approve of this principle but we need not implement it until 2010 or 2012 according to Amendment No 45.
The common position stipulates 2006.
I would therefore urge my colleagues not to support Amendment No 38 of the Christian Democrats and Amendment No 45 of some of the socialists.
Mr President, the waste from end-of-life vehicles is one of our really major environmental problems in terms both of the quantity of waste and of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances.
It is easy to see that the car industry in certain countries, for example in Germany, went in for some pretty tough lobbying before the present directive was adopted.
Reference was made earlier on in the debate to the fact that some thought should be given to the millions of people who work in the car industry in various countries and to those countries which have large car industries, for example my own country, Sweden.
Mr President, I am very pleased that environmental protection is now a priority for this Parliament, as indeed it is for the citizens of Europe.
There is no doubt that abandoned cars represent a serious threat to the visual and physical environment.
Car manufacturers, the suppliers of materials and equipment manufacturers must make an effort to limit the use of hazardous substances and therefore must ensure at the design stage that recycled materials can be used in the manufacture of cars.
We know that in the Netherlands there are authorised treatment centres in place to collect end-of-life vehicles and this process should be extended across the length and breadth of the European Union.
In accordance with new provisions included in the Amsterdam Treaty all the 370 million consumers within the European Union have a right to consumer-related information.
In this regard, we are certainly on the right track, but as some Members have already stressed, the real issue here is the possibility that manufacturers' responsibility will become a shared responsibility.
In Italy, we have begun to withdraw and recycle around 80% of old cars, but there is a market problem which could trigger a crisis - in terms of unemployment given that in Italy industry often resorts to lay-offs and redundancies - and cause problems for workers in different parts of Italy.
Mr President, this directive deals with the comparatively small but growing problem of abandoned cars and the question of a more structured disposal of all cars at the end of their life.
That would mean billions of pounds or euros for each of the major companies in each of the countries of the European Union.
The Council' s common position was to say that car manufacturers should bear all, or a significant part, of the costs of recovery and recycling.
The common position puts European car manufacturers in a disadvantageous position in relation to manufacturers which have just come to the European market.
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposed directive on end-of-life vehicles before us today aims firstly to guarantee a high level of environmental protection in the Union, but also to safeguard the proper operation of the internal market in this sector.
the date on which the directive will come into force.
The common position was more feasible since it envisaged 2006 for vehicles already on the road.
It would be shameful to say the least if the European Parliament were to draw back from the professions the governments of the 14 Member States and the European Commission have been making concerning manufacturer responsibility and environmental protection!
Another point is that waste should not be incinerated or crushed, not only in the case of lead, cadmium and mercury, but also in the case of waste which contains PVC.
The other question is who should bear the cost.
We are more in agreement with the amendment proposed at first reading.
I come, of course, from a country that is proud of its car industry and of its commercial success both in Europe and in third countries.
The men and women on the move throughout Europe pay for their car and their catalytic converter, pay their national taxes and the tax on fuel and are therefore already paying a high price for their magnificent machine and their freedom of movement.
I do not wish to alter the text of the common position in any way.
The manufacturer is and should be liable and the last holder and/or owner must be able to hand back the car without any cost.
Mr President, the present directive is important in so far as it helps prevent our being faced with hazardous waste from end-of-life vehicles and in so far as it promotes the re-use and recycling of materials from scrapped cars.
If you want the full benefits of this directive use your vote to throw out these amendments.
Yesterday we honoured our institution with a political debate.
Today, if 314 Members of Parliament yield to the strength of the lobbying of some car manufacturers, we should be doing ourselves dishonour.
Most of the technical issues have been resolved.
There are some details to be finalised but most of the technical issues have been resolved.
I cannot accept that.
The common position is a reasonable compromise.
I cannot accept that and on behalf of the taxpayers and the consumers of Europe I am voting against those amendments.
For there are considerably more than two million people employed in this sector.
Mr President, we are indeed now in a very rare situation: those who wish to uphold environmental values will take the side of the Council in their common position.
Mr President, there are two issues of principle in the Council' s draft directive.
Mr President, the common position is sound, but it is up to Parliament to improve the common position on end-of-life vehicles.
The common position stipulates that manufacturers should not only bear the cost, they should also take back end-of-life vehicles.
The European consumer organisation, which has asked us to support the common position on this point, is to my mind letting the consumer down.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have asked to speak again so that I can say a few more words at the close of this debate.
You will also find that these cars are suitably disposed of, that new material flows have been opened up in order to recycle materials, that 85% of the weight of a car is recycled and that 92% of all cars in the Netherlands are recycled.
I will only give the example of my own country to illustrate how this system functions there without any problems.
Some businesses have become hi-tech businesses, because they managed to recycle certain materials, even materials which are not yet included in the directive.
What we are discussing here is the fact that close on ten million cars are scrapped every year in the European Union, resulting in approximately as many millions of tons of waste.
The first question, then, is about who should pay.
We have what we require in order to deal with end-of-life cars.
After the first reading in the European Parliament in 1999, the Commission' s proposal ended up in an awkward political situation in the Council.
A total of 48 amendments have been tabled.
This applies to Amendment No 5, excluding section 1; 8 and 9, section 1; 10 and 12, section 3; 15, 16, 20, 22, 24 and 25.
Amendments Nos 6 and 21 are new; the Commission can approve these.
Amendments Nos 4, 11, 12, 13, 28, 30, 32, 37, 42 and 48 concern the phasing-out of heavy metals.
Amendments Nos 13, 28, 32, 37, 42 and 48 involve introducing unnecessary conditions and exceptions.
Amendments Nos 4, 11 and 30 mean that heavy metals have to be separated from the waste before recycling.
Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 34, 36, 38, 44 and 45 relate to the manufacturer' s liability.
Amendment No 23 involves the Commission' s having to adopt quality standards for reusable components.
Finally, the Commission cannot approve Amendments Nos 1 and 33 for reasons to do with legal clarity; nor Amendment No 19, which the Commission considers to be unnecessary at this stage.
The debate is closed.
There is an error which has still not been corrected and that is on Amendment No 4.
the draft Council decision amending Decision 88/591/ECSC, EEC, Euratom establishing a Court of First Instance of the European Communities (5713/1999 - C5-0020/1999 - 1999/0803(CNS)) and II.
Thank you, Mr van Velzen.
Madam President, the Socialist Group proposes the following oral amendment.
Expenditure on research and technology actually forms a sizeable part of the budget of the European Union, after agriculture and the Structural Funds.
The various framework programmes have enabled not only high quality scientific work to take place but also innovative cooperation between researchers in various Member States.
The fact is there are too few women involved in research work in the European Union.
Having said this, some of our fellow Members clearly have qualms because the report by the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities which we have voted on contains one point which may lead to confusion and is interpreted by some as a quota stipulating that there must be 40% female participating in research in Europe.
They are involved in low-profile work of valuable cultural importance. - (SV) The parliamentary process concerning this question has been confusing, to say the least.
The directive concerning end-of-life vehicles will stand as an example for future legislation.
So let us vote for these amendments in order to preserve these gems of the automobile industry.
The precise wording of texts provides a guarantee and legal certainty for those people who will have to apply or live by these texts on a daily basis.
The directive remains in place.
Thus, a more appropriate way to encourage recycling is to tax manufacturers who do not increase the amounts of recoverable material in their vehicles, to encourage private sector recycling companies, through a package of tax incentives and assistance on complying with environmental requirements, and to incentivise the use of recycled materials.
Berger Report (A5-0007/2000) This proposal for a directive attempts to establish conditions for the posting of workers who are third-country nationals, for the provision of cross-border services.
Basically, these proposals introduce the EU service provision card which will in future enable almost 5 million third country nationals legally resident in a European Union Member State to provide services in other Member States, a phenomenon currently obstructed by problems such as the need to obtain visas and work permits.
The first proposal for a directive will authorise businesses established in a Member State which employ workers who are third country nationals to assign such employees to another Member State on a temporary basis to provide services there.
That is why I am voting in favour of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur.
Marinho Report (A5-0003/2000): We have serious reservations about the Council' s proposed amendments.
Some people will say that perfection is not a realistic aim, but a brief look at the background should make our reservations more understandable to them: On 1 January 1995, the Council went back on the decision to increase the number of judges laid down in Article 17 of the Accession Treaty of 24 June 1994.
Dimitrakopoulos and Leinen Report (A5-0018/2000) - (SV) The most important task of the approaching Intergovernmental Conference is to reform the EU before the accession of the new Member States.
Incidentally, the French will probably be interested to learn that the Commission is asking for Article 67 of the Amsterdam Treaty to be amended in order to establish majority voting and codecision with the European Parliament.
The French must be made aware not only that the purpose of all these operations is to eliminate their country as a responsible centre for decision making, but that furthermore every means will be used to extract their consent.
It is crucial for us that it should be possible for this Intergovernmental Conference to be concluded before the end of the year 2000 so that there are no remaining formalities, such as the weighting of votes in the Council of Ministers and the composition of the Commission and the European Parliament, which place obstacles in the way of the enlargement of the EU.
In other words, fifteen people are going to have discussions and decide, behind closed doors, on the fate of more than 350 million individuals.
Unfortunately, in the issues covered by the resolutions on future subjects for revisions to the Treaty on European Union, nothing has so far been stated about the need to review Article 7, which deals with suspending a State in the event of a serious and persistent violation of the "founding" principles of the Union, as laid down in Article 6.
The European Parliament and its Committee on Constitutional Affairs ought instead to have been more specific and concentrated on just a few points in addition to the Council decision in Helsinki, so stating what it considered to be the most pressing matters for discussion, including the question of establishing a public prosecutor to deal with crimes against the institutions of the European Union and their financial interests.
I also refer to my explanation of vote of 18 November 1999 which clarifies my attitude towards supranationalism and common defence.
Joint resolution on Austria Madam President, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group did not associate itself with the joint PPE/DE-PSE resolution on the political situation in Austria following the formation in that country of a coalition government between the conservatives and Jörg Haider' s Freedom Party.
In our opinion, it is clear that the left wing in the European Parliament, in association with the Austrian left wing which was defeated in the electoral arena, have mounted a petty political campaign resorting to the memory of a sinister but fortunately bygone period.
I also wonder about the wisdom of the EU and its reaction to the formation of the government in Austria and how that is going to affect public opinion there.
There is the tragic monument of the Holocaust, the death of 6 million Jews, to those who argued the same case with respect to Germany in the 1930s.
Madam President, we have just passed a resolution which condemns the racist and xenophobic record of Jörg Haider' s Freedom Party in Austria, which has welcomed action by our governments to cut off political relations with any government of which he is part, and which sends our support to anti-racist groups within the democratic majority of the Austrian people.
This European Parliament requires the European Commission to be vigilant of any racist action in Austria, and threatens to suspend Austria from membership of the European Union if this happens.
Our vote in no way constitutes an endorsement of the signatories to this compromise resolution, their present policy or their future attitude should the threat of the extreme right become more serious.
However, as it lacks the legal instruments to support this political will, since the sanctions stipulated under Article 7 of the Treaties are virtually impossible to apply, will it be able to keep its head high in the face of the threat of the systematic blocking of its entire institutional structure?
It is our responsibility as a parliament, particularly as the democratically elected voice of the European Union, to comment on current political developments in Austria which are in conflict with the policies of this parliament.
That is why the European Union must make its position clear regarding the current situation in Austria. - (SV) We have voted in favour of the common resolution in order to express our solidarity with all those who are exposed to xenophobia and racism.
We are nonetheless very critical of the methods which the 14 Member States have employed on this issue.
The resolution makes no clear reference to respect for the Member States' national identities and constitutional traditions in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty.
A radical policy to promote security and justice in each country is the best guarantee of democratic development in Europe. - (DE) I am making this statement on behalf of the CSU.
It is intolerable that the EU should involve itself in the formation of the government in a Member State.
However, as politicians we must ask the question why 27% of the Austrian population voted for a party such as the FPÖ at the elections in October 1999.
For these reasons the CSU European delegates are against this resolution.
For the first time since the Second World War, a party which is openly pro-Nazi, racist and xenophobic has gained access to power in a European country.
It was only after they unsuccessfully solicited the FPÖ to tolerate a minority government and, obviously in vain, offered the Freedom Party ministerial posts, that the SPÖ begin its massive campaign against Haider.
The Council has become prematurely involved without waiting for the results of the coalition negotiations or a programme of government.
Any interference by the European institutions in this country is therefore unacceptable; it is in violation of the European Treaty (Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam).
I believe there are circumstances when the question of principles and institutional regulations is obliterated.
Personally I argued in favour of a rather harder line, and I supported Amendments Nos 1, 4, 6, 7 and 8, as well as the oral amendment tabled by the Socialist Group.
Including Jörg Haider' s party in a coalition government makes the presence of the extreme right an everyday fact of life in Europe, and sets an extremely dangerous precedent which may generate a serious aftermath in other Union Member States or in candidate countries.
The Austrian People' s Party must accept some historical responsibility for this.
I condemn Jörg Haider' s racist and xenophobic policy.
I cannot therefore accept paragraph 4 in the joint resolution, and I cannot vote in favour of the resolution, even though it would be a vote against the extreme right. - (SV) Obviously, the political leaders of Europe have a right and a duty to react against Mr Haider and his party.
The political leaders of Europe are entitled to express their view of political developments in another Member State, just as a prime minister can express his opinion about racist politicians in a local authority.
The treaties do not authorise this reaction by the 14 Member States.
