The reason for the delay is that we have more than 200 pages of roll-call votes, which have cost Parliament' s budget the modest sum of BEF 4 million.
I think that what went on there last night must be investigated at any rate.
At the beginning of the topical and urgent debate, we had a discussion on the application of Rule 146 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say adjournment of a debate.
Mr Maaten, Rule 50(6) stipulates that Rules 143, 144 and 146 shall not apply to those resolutions.
I would like to inform you that, as you are aware, yesterday a tragic road accident occurred in Spain, near Soria, in which 2 drivers and 25 teenagers died.
Working Document No 4 specifically deals with the actual mechanics of the plenary session, and I think that would be the appropriate environment for this type of discussion and for making improvements to our working methods.
Mr Mann, this week at least, the verbatim report of proceedings has been available to all Members from 10 a.m.
Vote Mr President, although we consider the prospect of developing short sea shipping in Europe, as well as inland waterway transport, as something positive, Armonia Bordes, Chantal Cauquil and I have chosen, nevertheless, to abstain from voting on this proposal.
However, as the Commission report and the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism point out, short sea shipping is suffering from a poor public image in terms of its cost, slowness and inefficiency.
Finally, I would have liked the report to have included the proposal made by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, according to which short sea shipping must be considered neither as an alternative to road transport nor as a competitive system.
The sole purpose of this proposal for a framework decision is to speed things up, at least with regard to the 15 Member States.
First of all, this framework decision allows European countries to raise fines to make this offence - environmental crime - unprofitable.
By means of administrative cooperation between the Member States, it is also possible to obtain such information as can be of use in enabling us to combat environmental crime.
It is important to try to cooperate as much as possible in this area.
I am in favour of the Framework Decision and of the amendments which have been tabled.
I also wish to praise this initiative by Denmark, which seeks to ensure that a Framework Decision on combating serious environmental crime is approved.
It is therefore imperative that the methods for combating serious environmental crimes are strengthened and coordinated between Member States.
Furthermore, I must stress the need for educating and training the personnel who will be responsible for investigating and prosecuting environmental crimes, the need to highlight preventative measures and the need for all the Member States to ratify the 1998 Convention of the Council of Europe.
It is a logical continuation of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Council of Ministers' summit in Tampere.
These are very complicated, very interesting and very important questions.
In many cases companies use the argument of negligence rather than saying it is deliberate but in fact negligence in its way is deliberate.
The other thing I would like to point out is that there are companies, such as British Nuclear Fuels, who have absolutely no sense of public responsibility or environmental awareness.
The Erika is another example of negligence.
On an international level we have seen many many disasters in the past, just to take Bhopal as an example.
The crimes are often committed by a corporate body.
Having said that, if, as many of the Members have said, the Council of Europe Convention is more comprehensive and more consistent, perhaps in these cases we should also ask ourselves how the European Union might be able to consider the Council of Europe texts directly in order to make legislation more homogeneous, both within and outside the Union.
In the Council of Europe - and this has already been echoed by others - a convention was concluded in 1998 to fight international environmental crime.
And of course in the not-so-distant past there was Chernobyl, the memory of which still haunts us.
Mr President, I would first like to congratulate the Danish Government on taking the initiative to propose the Council framework decision that we are discussing, which aims to equip us with more effective tools for combating serious environmental crime.
My colleague and compatriot Carmen Cerdeira contributed ideas and amendments that are now part of the text on which we are going to vote.
The first aspect is that it is recognised that a country may act against criminals when the crime against the environment has been committed on its own territory, but also when it has been committed in another country, if the consequences of that crime affect the former.
The second matter is the need to consider the international dimension of the crime.
Obviously, this is, in the first place, a responsibility of the Member States, and there should be international cooperation in this area.
Environmental crime, whether it be the illegal trade in endangered species of flora and fauna or their products, or whether it be the illegal export and dumping of toxic waste in other countries, either inside or outside the European Union, is a growing and increasingly a cross-border problem.
It is important that we have legislation in place to protect us against serious environmental crime before we see further enlargement of the European Union.
Some difficulties exist in resolving all of these to the satisfaction of the 15 Member States of the Union.
This proposal suffers from the same problems we have too often in the European Union.
Penalties are therefore essential, and they need to be designed to act as a deterrent and to be proportional to the damage to citizens' quality of life.
In the Committee on Petitions, we are aware of the terrible frustration felt by those citizens who take the trouble to report environmental crimes and see that, in Europe, we are incapable of coming to their aid in order to improve the natural environment in which they live and to prevent these crimes.
The worst environmental crimes are those perpetrated by companies, for which it is just part of their business.
I therefore think that when people start having to face the consequences, progress will be made in the matter both within the Union and in other respects.
The initiative mainly focuses on this part, which in essence corresponds to the provisions of a convention which was adopted by the Council of Europe in November 1998.
In accordance with this, a Council working group - one speaker has gone into it already - is currently working just on the first part of the initiative, that is, on substantive criminal law.
There are already several initiatives and proposals on improving cooperation in criminal law matters, which are not limited to environmental criminal law.
With this in mind, the European Judicial Network was established in 1998 through a joint action.
While some Member States have specified particular environmental offences in their criminal law, this is not the case with others.
A serious breach of environmental law is therefore not necessarily punishable in every Member State.
The overall lack of enforcement in environmental protection cannot, of course, be corrected by criminal law measures alone, but here too, this framework decision would certainly provide new impetus.
Under the first pillar, it is in principle up to the Member States whether they regard sanctions of administrative law as adequate or whether they take up the sharper sword of criminal law.
Irrespective of this, however, the persons responsible for serious environmental offences should, of course, also be subject to criminal law.
Unfortunately, this gives the overall impression that perhaps many Member States do not take the area of environmental protection and environmental law so seriously after all.
Thank you very much, Mrs Schreyer.
The debate is closed.
After all, fighting and prosecuting environmental crimes is not a priority for many Member States.
So what are you doing for those of us who live in Liguria, in Genoa, and although we have the sea, it is polluted?" "Do not worry" , I said, "Today is Friday 7 July.
