Integrated pollution prevention and control: industrial emissions, titanium dioxide industry, use of organic solvents, incineration of waste, large combustion plants (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Krahmer, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on industrial emissions (integrated pollution prevention and control) (recast) - C6-0002/2008 -.
Some Member States have been simply overlooking the need to invest in modernising their plants for years.
That distorts competition and damages the environment and I am therefore arguing for a new approach for the improved implementation of best available techniques.
Instead of differentiating by species between turkeys, ducks and broiler chickens, we should keep the threshold of 40 000 places for poultry.
All I can say, in that regard, is that I would have been very happy to have discussed their proposals, but at no time during the compromise negotiations with the shadow rapporteurs were such proposals put forward.
Madam President, I am delighted that we are debating today the proposal to reform the directive on industrial emissions and I would like to specifically thank the rapporteur, Mr Krahmer, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for their excellent work on this dossier.
This unacceptable situation must stop.
This makes the licensing terms of businesses throughout the European Union more similar and, by extension, achieves greater convergence in conditions of competition.
This will allow BREFs to play a bigger role in defining the terms on which operating licences are granted to industrial companies, which will result in our industrial plants' meeting the highest possible environmental requirements laid down in the legislation of the European Union.
At the same time, for certain sectors of industry which have a particularly serious environmental impact, minimum mandatory requirements must be set at European Union level.
Moreover, relevant minimum standards have already been adopted for sectors such as large combustion plants or waste incineration plants.
That is why the proposal merges seven current legislative acts into one directive.
The benefits of this simplification are numerous.
The proposal tabled will simplify the current legislation and, at the same time, will strengthen the application framework for the best available techniques.
This will make a further contribution towards improving environmental protection and the viability of European industry.
I therefore await your views on this important proposal and the constructive dialogue that will follow with interest.
The reference documents on best available techniques (BREFs) take too long to prepare and therefore cannot guarantee that the directive is applied in a transparent manner.
I would also like to add that industrialists have certainly made few investments in the past: a greater commitment is needed, and I believe that, since too many people in Europe fall ill and die due to atmospheric pollution caused by industrial emissions, we must introduce appropriate clean-up measures and a strict system of monitoring and testing.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all,7 I would like to clarify that I am speaking in place of our shadow rapporteur, who is unfortunately unable to be with us today, but I am able to give the united position of our group.
The minimum requirements proposed for large combustion plants must be met in order to apply the BATs and air quality criteria to this sector.
This is why, for our part, we are saying that the amendments tabled in plenary must not be carried.
However, as the Commissioner has pointed out, that principle is being abused: many Member States have interpreted best available techniques in manners not intended by the Commission.
The fact that our rapporteur is German perhaps has some involvement in this; Germany has a very good record in this instance.
I want to turn also to the opportunity this recast directive gives us to amend the Directive on large combustion plants.
We will therefore gain enormously from this directive, which takes us away from looking only at end-of-pipe technologies to push through the best available documents and best technology already used by an industry.
This also strengthens our suppliers of green technology in Europe.
Life is about trust - as is politics - so I do not understand why, at the very end, you who have such a good knowledge of this dossier are now giving in to politicians like Mrs Jackson and other politicians who do not care for health or for competitiveness.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although this is a consolidation of several directives and there are therefore limited possibilities for amending the legislative text, this new IPPC Directive is a necessary and useful tool for promoting not only a dramatic reduction in emissions by taking advantage of best available techniques, but also for precipitating a new trend in industrial investments.
The amendments discussed by all the groups to permit stricter controls on furan and dioxin emissions are also justified.
I think that in this light we should consolidate this debate with a House vote.
Creation is also threatened by the emission of atmospheric pollutants, 40-80% of which originate from large industrial installations.
We in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety have considered the proposals in detail and have reached an acceptable compromise on many points.
The calculation of the upper limits for animal husbandry must also be reasonable and comprehensible in relation to poultry.
I would like to say to the rapporteur that I, personally, along with other members of my group, very much welcome the concept of a European safety network.
Member States will then no longer be able to gain a competitive advantage at the expense of the environment. (SV) Mr President, this is a very important piece of legislation.
This directive is not the place to regulate small farms. (PL) Mr President, in the draft legislative resolution on industrial missions, a strong tendency to limit the important environmental aspects of the current directive is emerging while, at the same time, attempting to push through more extended references to the greenhouse effect.
The numerous motions for amendments have drastically enhanced the standards for thermal energy plants emissions which are not directly toxic in nature, while, at the same time, other more liberal draft amendments only slightly improve the regulations on combustion or co-incineration of waste.
I tabled Amendment 134 on staying outside the high-emission industries with standards based on best available techniques, leaving the implementation of such measures to the discretion of the Member States.
My final point concerns compromises and Mr Turmes's attack on me: the first reading is not a time for compromises, but rather a time when we fire off all our amendments and ideas and discuss them.
This removes the cost incentive to reduce CO2.
On the issue of large combustion plants, the EU ETS operation today does not safeguard against design lock-in of unnecessary pollution in many new high-cost and high-emitting installations, particularly in new coal-fired plants which, when built, would expect to operate for over 40 years, thus making it difficult and more expensive to meet overall climate goals.
A 350 g limit would ensure that only the most efficient state of the art gas-fired plants, for example, are built.
CO2 standards that apply from, say, 2020 would mean that new coal-fired plant stations could only be built after entry into force of this proposal, providing they use CO2 capture equipment from 2020 onwards, by when we expect CCS to be commercially available.
Installations could also comply with the standard in other ways, for example, by co-firing biomass or by using the heat from cogen techniques.
I find that the minimum emissions limit values would become the default values rather than focusing on full application of the more ambitious best available techniques, and could well reduce the level of environmental protection whilst, at the same time, vastly increasing the costs of implementation.
Agriculture must be monitored for its emissions, but I do not accept that we should do it in this way.
A piece of legislation in which all the significant measures to reduce pollution depend on the best available technique should be adjusted at least every five years, rather than after 13.
Permit conditions are already generally very stringent.
In practice this would even impair standards of environmental protection.
That is why we have tabled these amendments, where we call for all power plants that are built in the future to limit their emissions to 350 g CO2 from 2020 and onwards and those which are already in existence should be retrofitted by 2025 or closed down.
It troubles me all the more that the Commission has not carried out a study into economic impacts on employment, in order for us to take an informed and responsible decision concerning the new requirements for what is otherwise a very desirable reduction in emissions of nitrogen oxide.
I will vote against expanding the scope of this directive on reducing emissions to include households, small plants, small farms and even schools and churches and the like at a time of crisis.
I would like to thank Mrs Jackson for her proposal for an amendment.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members who have participated in today's debate.
Before I close, I would like to say a few words on some of the key amendments that have been discussed today.
There are many amendments that are acceptable to the Commission, at least in part or in principle.
In particular, many of the amendments help to clarify the text of the Commission's proposal or to improve transparency in the development of the BREFs and in the permitting and enforcement practices of Member States.
In considering minimum requirements on large combustion plants, it is important to keep in mind the significant impacts that such operations have on the environment and on the health of European Union citizens.
BAT for large combustion plants was agreed in 2006 and it is the Commission's view that the minimum criteria should be applied from 2016.
In the past, we have identified some shortcomings in this regard and it is, therefore, of paramount importance that the new legislation sets clear provisions to ensure the law is properly implemented.
The proposed new thresholds have been set on the basis of the environmental impact of the species concerned.
Commission's position on amendments by Parliament Krahmer report The Commission can support fully, in part, or in principle, Amendments 1, 5-8, 12-14, 16, 18-21, 27, 34-37, 40, 42-44, 46, 48-56, 58-62, 64-66, 68, 69, 71-73, 75 and 79.
The amendments which the Commission cannot support are Amendments 2-4, 9-11, 15, 17, 22-26, 28-33, 38, 39, 41, 45, 47, 57, 63, 67, 70, 76-78, 80, 93, 97, 114, 115, 117, 129 and 133.
I therefore ask for your support for the compromises when we vote in an hour's time.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 10 March 2009.
The proposed single directive on industrial emissions, along with all the recommended options of the policy package, will improve the legislation's effectiveness in achieving its environmental and health objectives in the most cost-effective way.
It will also reduce unnecessary administrative costs (with an expected net reduction estimated between EUR 105 and 225 million per year) and minimise distortion to competition within the EU without hampering the competitive position of European industry.
While industrial activity has a fundamental role to play in maintaining and increasing economic well-being, we must not lose sight of the impact it has on the environment.
I supported the introduction, from 1 January 2020, of a limit value of 350g of carbon dioxide for electricity-generating combustion plants bigger than 500 MW as these plants cause an increase in the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and, by implication, a deterioration in global warming.
Introducing a limit value would act as an incentive in terms of investing in techniques for cutting emissions, with all plants having to comply with this limit value by 2025.
I believe that the reduction in pollution originating from various industrial sources will help the European Union achieve its aim of maintaining the rise in global temperature below 2 ºC.
The 'best available technique' principle should be reinforced in future.
