I have not received any requests for changes to the agenda for Monday. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as rapporteur for the own-initiative report on Directive 93/104/EC on the organisation of working time, I would request that the vote take place on Wednesday rather than tomorrow, since negotiations are being held between various parliamentary groups and they asked me a moment ago if we could do this.
Traditionally, we conclude such debates with a resolution; it therefore seemed right to do so in this case too, even though the resolution will be put to the vote during the next sitting. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I believe that this is one of the most important policy issues currently under consideration and discussion in the sphere of international politics.
If this is true, this seems to be behaviour that is not consistent with the democratic process which this House would accept as the norm for a country which is shortly to become a Member State of the European Union.
This House has criticised Pakistan's exports of nuclear technology in the past and received condemnation from its government for doing so.
I ask those in this House who proclaim the glory of the Chechen freedom fighters how they account for the murder of innocent Muscovites? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in a few days’ time it will be the 20th anniversary of the adoption by the European Parliament of the Draft Treaty Establishing the European Union, created and proposed by Altiero Spinelli.
I would, however, like to draw your attention, Mr&#160;President, to the dissimilar nature of these two anniversaries.
This is not about commemorating Altiero Spinelli, but rather about seizing the opportunity of this important and historic date, which calls for a special sitting and not for one among many celebrations.
A report by me on industrial associations has been put on this week’s agenda, without my knowledge, and, above all, also contrary to everything agreed by Parliament with the authorities here.
On being asked how this could come to pass, the Parliament office responsible stated that it had been done with the groups’ agreement.
In practice, though, it would have been nice for this to have been done a bit more transparently and efficiently. &#160;&#160; I will get back to you on the detail when I have had a chance to study the matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Portuguese newspapers have recently reported appalling cases of mistreatment, abuse and even slavery, to which Portuguese workers have been subjected in various EU countries, such as France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
I request, Mr President, that the Commission and the Council be notified and that immediate action be taken to eradicate the problem of these appalling attacks on workers’ rights and on human rights in general. &#160;&#160; I would like you to send to my office copies of the material you referred to.
This Parliament has to be very careful that it does not allow President Uribe to use this opportunity as a propaganda stunt, to give an impression that somehow the human rights situation in Colombia is improving.
Such a thing can of course happen anywhere, but I find it an extraordinarily serious matter that it should happen so close to the Parliament building.
They want to strike the pioneers of this fight, the communists who remain faithful to their ideals, because the followers are their friends and protégées. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a few days ago, 19 Chinese people lost their lives in Morecambe Bay in the north-west of England.
Jacques Chirac even managed to describe the forthcoming referendum in Taiwan as an act of aggression against China.
These failures have prompted debates in the United States, investigations in the US Congress, the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the International Organization of Securities Commission and other international fora.
Rating agencies that are one hundred years old in the United States are relative newcomers in Europe.
The fact that nothing similar exists in Europe makes for an unbalanced transatlantic relationship which might become troublesome if it is not redressed in time.
These considerations prompted the original proposal of the report in favour of the formation of a European registration authority to be considered by the Commission, an authority to which agencies would report on their activities and with which they could establish a regulatory dialogue, a dialogue of equals based on the European Security Ratings Committee, on topics of mutual interest – excluding, of course, any intervention in the substance of the opinions issued by the agencies.
It is interesting that the Securities and Exchange Commission has recently expressed interest in making contact with the CSR on this matter.
As you all know, the role of rating agencies is increasing nowadays.
However, in the last decade, the role of credit ratings has become ever more crucial, with the growth of corporate bond issuances and the inclusion of references to credit ratings in several pieces of financial legislation, including banking legislation.
Besides, as everybody knows, recent major scandals have raised questions on the role of rating agencies in general: we cannot forget the Enron case in 2001, or the recent Parmalat case, among others.
In practice, the worldwide industry is nearly an oligopoly.
The establishment of objective criteria for entrance or development of other players in the industry might help.
The European Commission committed itself to that at the Oviedo European Council in April 2002.
The European Commission will thus be able to take a position on the subject by the summer or autumn of 2004 at the latest.
The top two worldwide rating agencies are American.
There are three rating agencies in the market; even though I am a defender of competition and would very much welcome it if they were to be joined by more, I think that an administrative, public solution would be the wrong one.
If anything, the creation of any more rating agencies, or at any rate, of a European one, should be in response to the market, but all attempts to do so to date have been unsuccessful.
If we take into account the power that the rating agencies have, and our tendency, in legislating on financial markets, towards ever more regulation and supervision, then we have to give some thought to how we are to handle them in future.
It is also important that Europe should do so.
My main reason for raising this point is that I am told, by people in industry and in the financial sector, that businesses themselves find it very difficult to get the relevant information about their own rating, so one can scarcely speak in terms of a normal customer relationship between enterprises and rating firms.
I regard it as a matter of urgency – as does the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – that we should get this process underway now, that we should monitor it with a critical eye, and that the Commission should submit its proposals in the middle of next year. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Diamantopoulou, Mr&#160;Katiforis, well done on this initiative, well done on the content of this report.
These are the questions that we should answer by way of the solutions that we envisage for the operation of these agencies in particular, but not only for these agencies.
My second remark is that if, in Europe, we want the improvement in the operation of rating agencies to contribute to protecting our social model, then we cannot leave aside the issue of corporate social responsibility.
I hope that a deal may be reached between the PPE-DE Group and the rapporteur.
There is a tendency among some financial commentators to assume that we must have further regulation following Parmalat, and the organisations that are most squarely in the frame for further regulation and registration are rating agencies.
Questions have to be asked about rating agencies and how they function, but it is premature to reach the conclusion that further regulation or a registration scheme are necessarily needed at this stage. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I can tell Mrs&#160;Villiers that we should not, at any rate, be saying that we do not know what we are asking for or what we want.
Of the hundred largest enterprises in the European Union, 80 are monitored by only three agencies, which should, therefore, be able to do a better job of rating them.
The information used to produce an assessment is also important when deciding where to invest.
I will nonetheless conclude by endorsing his appeal that, in view of the many current uncertainties, we should explore every avenue whereby a European Registration Authority may be established. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Katiforis, ladies and gentlemen, this report and this issue are of particular significance in view of the many questions that are being raised.
Previous speakers have already shown you how the rating agencies have gained twofold significance – on the one hand as a result of notorious scandals, and on the other as a result of the consumer credit directive or the development of Basel II.
Above all, rating agencies assess companies and countries.
These evaluations lead to debates on the level of interest rates, the amount of equity capital and the stock exchange prices; they also have an effect on customers’ confidence in the business and country in question.
As the rapporteur suggested in his explanatory statement, this is clearly a political decision, and this debate clearly bears out this view.
The Commission agrees with many of the points the Katiforis report has made, but it will present its final position at the end of spring or at the latest in autumn.
The debate is closed.
The Commission and the Council should have re-examined these temporary exceptions before 26&#160;November last year.
My proposals are also clear.
I will end, Mr President, by saying that our Charter of Fundamental Rights and Article 137 of the Treaty oblige us to resist the wishes of those who do not want European rules.
As we have heard, the main objective of this directive, which is also both its political framework and its legal basis, is to protect workers from the harmful effects on their health and safety from working excessively long hours, inadequate rest or irregular working hours.
The directive is in fact a framework of minimum health and safety requirements as regards daily and weekly rest, the maximum working week, annual paid leave and the length of night shifts.
Of course, we must not overlook the fact that, although the legal framework is the health and safety of workers, it also relates directly to the productivity of enterprises.
I must stress here that, according to the Treaty, the role of the social partners is very different, it is independent, and the framework within which the Commission is starting the debate cannot but be broad and the first approach cannot result in directions set by the Commission, because the social partners themselves must consult in the first and second stages, so that we have their positions.
Secondly, we need to address the matter in all its aspects.
The third point is the correlation between working time and equal opportunities.
Our objective is for this procedure to bring us to a better legislative framework which takes account of the real impact on the job market and best serves the basic objective of the directive, which is to protect the health and safety of workers.
I would like to assure you that it is the basis for preparations and, of course, is only the Commission's first debate and approach with Parliament.
I would like to share some facts with the House this evening.
I would now just like to talk briefly about the report by Barnard, Deakin and Hobbs, which the rapporteur referred to.
It was interesting that, when the Commission report itself came out, there was an article in the on Tuesday, 6 January, co-authored by Catherine Barnard and Simon Deakin, professing surprise at the way their report had been misinterpreted.
I would hope that Members on all sides of the House could support that.
However, although I clearly understand that individual Commissioners do not always get what they want when they want it, I am very disappointed with the way the issue of working time has been handled by the Commission as a whole.
We want speedy and specific action from the Commission in response to those judgments and then time to sensibly revise other provisions in the original directive.
I for one would also be quite happy to look at whether annualisation of working time could be made a more realistic option in all Member States.
But workers in the UK are on low wages, even though we have a national minimum wage.
The Commission must also look at the SIMAP and Jaeger judgments.
It is very important that we do that on health and come forward with proposals.
The Court of Justice has ruled in a number of cases, and has included time spent on call as working time, thereby confirming the fundamental principle that time not entirely available to workers due to work commitments must be regarded as working time.
My group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left, has tabled proposals that would enable us to extend these rights a little further.
The material available to us and the study as published are enlightening, but they are not normative.
This is an issue that is generating a lot of heat in certain Member States.
The fact that France, Germany and the Netherlands are now following the UK's example in deploying it in relation to the medical professions serves to demonstrate that the line the UK has always taken is the practical one.
The majority of people in Malta work in excess of 48 hours per week and need to do so for their own benefit and for the island's economy.
All Member States need the flexibility to organise their own working time.
On the one hand, it is very irritating that this House is virtually turning into a sort of House of Commons, in that we are now giving our attention solely to problems that are in fact not even specific to the UK, but are specifically English.
Then we will, in any case, have all the Member States behind us – with the exception of the United Kingdom, but including, I am sure, the Member States in Eastern Europe.
What matters most of all to businesses is the options available for machinery’s runtimes and operating times, rather than any unnecessary extension of working time.
It is in this area that European social policy is under scrutiny, as are guaranteed European standards, for if we make it possible for these matters to be handed back to the national level, you can be sure that the same thing will happen in many other cases in the life of the next Parliament.
In order to nip that sort of thing in the bud, we want the precise legal framework, which you have promised us.
I am really shocked that the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, together with several other political groups, seem to want to break with this tradition and, instead, go back to the situation that existed a hundred years ago when a voluntary ethos prevailed in the labour market.
I do not understand how people can argue in that way or put forward a proposal along those lines.
In a labour market so exposed to competition, it will lead to a situation in which people are forced to take jobs on the conditions that apply.
As many have said, family life is also affected.
I also want to add that all of us, as consumers, are affected.
We must remove the United Kingdom’s opt-out and find other ways of solving these flexibility problems, for we cannot cope successfully without labour legislation that is applicable across the board. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome this report and I welcome the Commission's public consultation on it.
If we are honest we all know the problems that long hours of work bring for health and safety, productivity and social relationships, both for the individual and within the family.
The issue about who owns your time, who controls it, who says where you have to be at what point, is a key question when deciding whether or not you are actually at work.
But we also recognise that there is more to life than paid work.
The purpose of the original directive was, out of health and safety considerations, to safeguard employees against unduly long working days by setting a maximum working time of 48 hours per week.
This has, for example, led to millions of Britons increasing their working time to more than 48 hours per week since the directive was introduced.
The directive supports the principle of individual agreements that is contrary to the collective agreement model that exists in Denmark.
Among Danes, there is considerable backing for the national model in which, for example, working time and wage conditions are established through free negotiations between independent trade unions and employer associations.
The directive on working time is an example of the EU’s needing to keep clear of labour market policy and leave this to the Member States.
The proximity principle must be taken seriously.
To conclude, therefore, we are voting in favour of the rapporteur’s report and against the majority of the many amendments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, we are dealing with a report which I believe to be of profound social, legal and political importance.
This is because the completion of the internal market must lead to an improvement in working conditions, because the Community will support and complement the Member States’ actions in the fields of health and safety protection of workers, as laid down in Article 137 of the EC Treaty, and because all workers have the right to a restriction of maximum working time, to daily and weekly periods of rest, and an annual period of paid holiday, as well as to work in conditions which respect their health, their safety and their dignity, as laid down in the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The issue is very simple, therefore, on a theoretical level.
With regard to opting-out, the potential for abuse is obvious, particularly in a situation of legal equality but not economic equality between the protagonists in working life.
Directive 93/104/EC is intended to guarantee a higher level of health and safety protection for workers, as reiterated in Directive 2000/34/EC.
I therefore believe that before the vote we should seek agreements which combine legal guarantees for workers with creating more flexibility, in the spirit of Directive 93/104/EC. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a number of references were made to us, the British Labour MEPs.
However, we believe in the principle of working time and want to see progress, particularly in the health sector. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the proposals by the European Commission on working time obey the demands of the employers for flexible working time.
It is a form of modern paid slavery, which forces a large percentage of the workforce to work an average of between 48 and 70 hours a week, with deteriorating health and safety conditions and very serious repercussions on the mental and physical health of workers.
We support the reduction in working time, the introduction of a genuine 35-hour week of seven set working hours a day, five days a week, an increase in wages and full insurance and employment rights which will apply universally to all workers and all enterprises.
We also have a certain number of problems as regards homeworkers and also those working in situations that involve caring for others, because private and professional life are often intermingled in this area.
Some Member States call on collective or workforce agreements to establish the average working time, whilst others resort to individual derogations which make it possible for workers in, for example, supervisory positions, not to be subjected to restrictions in working time.
I do, of course, agree with the fact that the European Union is duty bound to lay down minimum conditions governing the organisation of working time in order to guarantee a high level of health and safety protection for workers.
This is why it seems to me that the rapporteur’s opinion would have to be qualified by accepting, for example, as you initially proposed, Commissioner, the gradual abolition of the opt out, provided for in Article 18 of the Directive, in return for the introduction, in the future draft revision of the directive, of a derogation at Article 6 to allow periods of inactivity partially to be taken into account.
This would probably be a transitional solution that would make it possible to have minimal social rules whilst, at the same time, taking into account the constraints of each sector. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the basis of the whole working time directive is now in the process of being eroded.
We also know that the statistics are clear in their implications.
The second pressure on the working time directive stems directly from the fact that the Commission has neglected to say what it intends to do as a consequence of the Jaeger and SIMAP Judgments.
We badly need a revision of the directive that abolishes the individual opt-out but that constantly provides for flexibility where there is a need for this, for example in the health sector.
I say this not just to harp on about time-honoured Danish practices, but also because this method of implementation puts a stop to the individual ways of doing things and, at the same time, provides for a very high-level implementation of the directive.
That is why this is a sound way of proceeding, and that is why I should like to ask the Commission specifically to state in the directive that the directive can be implemented by means of collective agreements. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the exercise that we are currently carrying out to revise a 1993 directive on the organisation of working time is worthwhile.
I had tabled a series of amendments aimed at removing from the text of this opinion the obvious falsehoods, according to which working hours are apparently being extended all over the place in the European Union and long working hours being imposed in our Member States, with negative effects on our health, well-being and appetite for life.
The opinion then concludes by heaping criticism on the would-be culture of long working hours for high level professionals and others, managers in particular.
For some here, a massive reduction in working time is the universal remedy for all problems.
My group has tabled a host of amendments designed to re-establish truth and reason on this sensitive issue and aimed, in particular, at those populists who would have our European citizens believe that they can always work a lot less to earn a lot more than their colleagues in other parts of the world. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank the rapporteur, who has prepared a very constructive report.
There are differences between various industries and, sometimes, certain industries may require special arrangements in order to achieve flexibility and, at the same time, maintain the principles of health and safety.
I am not in favour of renationalisation, because it would have the same effect.
Let us comply with this model, in which case we must remove the individual opt-out, at the same time as preserving flexibility and a high level of safety. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate.
The ACP Co-President’s personal commitment to ensuring that only the head of the Zimbabwean delegation can take the floor during the session in Rome should also be welcomed.
The more informal organisation of Question Time with the Commission, at the sixth session in Rome, proved its worth and led to a livelier debate.
The Women’s Forum was a success both at the 5th session in Brazzaville and at the 6th session in Rome.
Finally, two important reports were adopted, one on children’s rights, and those of child soldiers in particular, and the other on the use of the European Development Fund and the discussions initiated on its budgetisation.
Improvements have been made to the organisation of its work, allowing it to make its voice heard more clearly and to actively participate in the political dialogue provided for in the Cotonou Agreement.
Mr President, I should like first of all to express my satisfaction on this very informative report concerning the work of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly, which is very useful not only for us, but also for the interested agencies which somehow create relations between Europe and these countries.
The first is that we absolutely welcome the setting up of these three standing committees following the approval of the new rules of procedure in 2003.
Thanks to preparatory cooperation between these committees, the reports present a high degree of accuracy and the debates in plenary are much clearer, specific and detailed.
There are an estimated 300 000 child soldiers under the age of 18 involved in some 40 conflicts throughout the world.
The International Save the Children Alliance was heard when the UN Security Council met in mid-January 2003 to discuss the plight of children in armed conflicts.
The references which the excellent rapporteur makes are to the fact that we now have a parliamentary status and a very different way of working but, most important, the ACP representation is of elected Members of Parliament and not of ambassadors, which used to be the case in the past.
The parliamentary assembly is a very special institution: it is the democratic arm of ACP-EU cooperation and provides a voice for the people in the 93 countries which are represented there.
It is our task to build credible and workable partnerships through dialogue and consultation between our respective parliaments.
In our last Joint Assembly we worked on the EPA trade negotiations, human rights, governance, the European Development Fund and environmental concerns.
Our work should reflect that unique subscription between the EU and 78 ACP countries to those values which are enshrined in the agreement.
Those values are central to our work here in Parliament and to our work with developing countries, and that is democracy, the rule of law and, above all, the eradication of poverty.
I am delighted that Commissioner Nielson has on a number of occasions expressed his support for the Joint Assembly and for financial resources to be made available for us to be more effective in our work and for the participation of ACP Parliaments to be greater, because, after all, it is their legitimacy and accountability as parliamentarians that is at the heart of our work.
We are now preparing for the seventh session of the JPA in Addis Ababa this weekend and I am sure that we will continue to work in an increasingly impressive and focused way in 2003. &#160;&#160; – Mrs Flesch, I should like to congratulate you mainly on the tone of the positive, yet critical, remarks in your explanation.
There are structures in place and both sides must now make effective use of them.
This will require an increase in resources on the ACP side and quite possibly, a change in mentality on both, because the EU partner will also change following the accession of ten new countries.
We must become real partners in the development of North and South, and I should like to emphasise that consultation is necessary at all times if we are to be spared the disastrous effects of such incidents as those in Zimbabwe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the cooperation system that links the European Union to the ACP countries is marked by a dual evolution in opposite directions.
As the rapporteur stresses, the creation in 2003 of three standing committees, in particular a Committee on Economic Development, Finance and Trade responsible for looking at the extremely delicate issue of negotiating future partnership agreements, reinforces the continuity of the Parliamentary Assembly and allows the quality of its work to be improved.
If future economic partnership agreements merely apply the principle of equality of competitors, is there not a risk that they will create insurmountable accounting problems for ACP countries by making them lose out on a large part of their customs revenue, which is an important, and sometimes an essential, part of their budget?
Moreover, is there not a risk that putting Community merchandise and local products in direct competition with each other without sufficient safeguards will weaken or even suffocate a number of sectors of activity in the ACP countries?
It is by working in this direction, Mr&#160;President, that ACP and European countries will no longer find themselves on different playing fields in future negotiations regarding agriculture and world trade. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, allow me firstly to say that the report is constructive and provides a correct description of the work in the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
The work has acquired a better structure with the three committees, something that has improved the preparatory work prior to the plenary.
It is gratifying that most other countries have resisted the pressure from the United States.
The ACP-EU Assembly plays an important political and economic role in major, crucial issues in the international arena. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate.
The Commission has various options in mind for the reform process, and the report makes reference to them.
Whilst the Commission, and also several of my fellow-Members of this House, are strongly in favour of privatisation, all the experience we have had, including in the EU’s Member States, leads me to urge that, along with a responsible role for the public sector and the State, the focus should be on cooperative solutions and also the involvement of the private sector in these states.
In the private business sector, priority should be given to the promotion and development of small- and medium-sized enterprises, which lay the foundation for more jobs and self-supporting economic development in developing countries.
It is clear that the Commission, with these two communications, is trying to highlight the importance of the business sector to development.
The development of businesses and the existence of a dynamic private sector are basic factors in economic development and are the main source of employment in developing countries, especially if account is taken of the unofficial sector of the economy.
As far as state-owned enterprises are concerned, our intention is to contribute to their reform in developing countries.
Finally, we have not put an end to the discussion on ownership, by which I mean if they are state-owned or private enterprises or partnerships between the public and private sectors.
The two communications are complementary and have been drafted on the criterion and with the ultimate objective of further reducing poverty.
I would like to highlight what I believe are some of the key elements in the reform of state-owned and private enterprises in developing countries.
We are all aware also of the Enron scandal in the United States.
In other words, the issues of the efficient running of enterprises are as pertinent in western, developed market economies as they are in developing countries.
I share the Commission's view that reforms of state-owned enterprises must take account of the capacity and resources of the countries involved.
Reform of state-owned enterprises in developing countries should not be confined to privatisation measures.
The EU should encourage reform strategies which involve domestic investors and devote particular attention to decentralised solutions involving small and medium-sized enterprises.
Our own SME sector should be actively engaged in this process. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I applaud the development of the rapporteur's ideas in recent years on this subject.
There is no single holistic approach to the management of public utilities that fits all developing countries.
Evidence from post-independent developing countries in the past 50 years shows that state-owned enterprises have, in the majority of cases, failed to efficiently and cost-effectively provide water, waste management, municipal services, road transport, aviation services, mining, reforestation and energy supplies, thereby making them a considerable burden on the state budget, hindering economic growth and impoverishing the poorest.
It is imperative to get the private sector involved in the provision of public services in developing countries in order to increase cost efficiency as well as economic growth.
The private sector alone can generate sustainable employment and is the driving force of every modern economy.
When large transnational companies are encouraged to invest, through foreign direct investment, in developing countries, they should also be empowered to make offset investments.
When we are looking at public services in the developing world, we must also focus on the eradication of poverty as a top priority of our reform of public services and state enterprises.
In this framework, the often too exclusive call on the private sector is at best a deception and at worst a seizure of economic, social and political power, which slips from the control of the peoples in these countries.
We are aware of the drastic social consequences of this.
Yet, such an assessment would render more credible its call for the European Union’s experience on this matter to be considered.
If combining a strong and modern State-owned sector and private enterprises could be desirable to meet needs, in particular in the services area, it is nonetheless a fact that the call for public-private partnerships at present actually does more to weaken public enterprises than to create an overall dynamic.
Without employees being involved in decisions and the destiny of the enterprise, without consulting the peoples and without a genuine code of practice which restricts multinationals involved in developing countries, recourse to private investments amounts to financial takeovers by large corporations, without there being any improvement to the service and often to the detriment of the national interests of these countries.
The ever more dominant role of these transnational companies in the world clearly benefits the financial, speculative and stock market system more than the people of the South.
The EU should strengthen its aid to the developing countries according to the criteria of whether enterprises are modernising by moving towards democratisation in decision-making processes, with more transparency in the operation of public service enterprises.
Finally, and I will conclude on this point, the fundamental rights of every person to health and education must remain in the public sphere, just as water, transport, health and energy should remain outside of the GATS. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Modrow report is right to highlight a number of painful areas in the privatisation mania that has swept many developing countries.
However, can the European Union not play a more positive role so as to help create the conditions to ensure that the reforms in state-owned undertakings can progress in a more favourable sense for the sake of development?
I join the rapporteur in calling for more attention and more resources to make the transition of small undertakings in the informal sector to the formal economy possible, and also for more resources for women, who are often active in this informal sector.
They must have the first claim on aid, because their undertakings are probably the most direct way in which the fight against poverty in their country can be tackled. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, support for the development of industry in developing countries is intended to improve those countries' trading position.
After all, the European Community has no powers in the field of employment policy and social policy in the developing countries.
Thirdly, in relation to the Member States' policies; there is hardly any reference in either the Commission communication or the Modrow report to the Member States' development cooperation in this field.
The sustainable development relation between a developing country and a Member State could be the perfect framework in order to, for example, offer support in the event of redundancies.
In conclusion, support to undertakings in developing countries has my blessing, but the line of approach in the case of state-owned undertakings raises essential questions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, this report is, in my view, a modest sign of a favourable development.
One of the major problems in the developing world was – and still is to a great extent – the absence of a truly free market economy.
In practice, socialistic and collectivistic experiments have generally exacerbated the problems rather than offered a solution to poverty.
The high living standards and prosperity achieved by the western world, Japan and Australia are not the results of monopoly and protectionism but of the free market economy’s and private enterprise’s many dynamic forces that promote development and prosperity.
Half our continent has tried another method involving centralised control and large state monopolies.
The developing countries must be given the same opportunity to develop and create an economic model involving free competition and an open market economy.
Competition is very important in this area.
Current political solutions in many developing countries are, unfortunately, often ineffective and expensive and only reach a limited proportion of the population.
It must be said, however, that one of the two Commission Communications&#160;–&#160;the one entitled ‘reform of state-owned enterprises in developing countries with focus on public utilities: the need to assess all the options’&#160;–&#160;made for more than thought-provoking, but at the same time welcome, reading for me.
As is called for in the draft report, an initial step in this direction would be for the Commission to finally agree to carry out a transparent, public and openly debated assessment of the effect of liberalisation on employment, on the quality and the extent of the services provided and on working conditions in Europe.
When we look more closely at the various examples quoted in the Communication, we can see that among the positive experiences are cases in which State-owned enterprises have remained State-owned but in which mismanagement and corruption have been combated, the enterprise has gained renewed dynamism and effectiveness in its management and, above all, a regulatory and political framework has been implemented, which has clear objectives that are ambitious in terms of development, accessibility and quality of service and that are, in particular, financed by tariff adjustment.
A final point is that those in favour of the general liberalisation of utilities though the GATS claim that opening up public utilities in developing countries can only benefit them.
A more pragmatic analysis should favour a different economic development strategy: one that is centred on the local economic and social actors and small- and micro-enterprises&#160;–&#160;with account being taken, in particular, of women and basic public utilities&#160;–&#160;and one that, above all, does not hand such enterprises over to the reckless appetites of the multinationals.
Excuse me at this point, however, for I think we are talking about ethics. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Diamantopoulou, Mr&#160;Modrow, when talking about support for the development of the business sector in cooperation policies with third countries and, in particular, developing countries, it is perhaps useful to remember what the Peruvian economist, Hernando de Soto, stated in his book He said that one of the main obstacles to economic development, the missing ingredient, in countries that would in fact enjoy considerable wealth, is the absence of property laws that are clearly defined and, therefore, protected by the certainty needed to give them genuine economic value.
It is good to consider all the options; I believe, however, that the political option that we must propose is privatisation of enterprises with a view to seeking efficiency and investment.
The privatisation option&#160;–&#160;both in Europe and also in developing countries&#160;–&#160;is the politically desirable option. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in addition to analysing the EU’s policy to date, these communications are intended to lay the basis for the Commission’s strategies to promote enterprise in developing countries and to prepare the Commission’s position on the reform of State-owned enterprises.
These have involved the opening up of markets and various types of arrangements, including privatisation.
It is important to have tangible support for SMEs and cooperatives by means of advice in the fields of services, training, business modernisation, and promotion of micro-enterprises, particularly by ensuring there is available funding.
For that reason, the channels of fair and sustainable trade must be made to work in such a way that European consumers are able to support enterprises and producers in developing countries by means of their own purchasing decisions. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate.
The vote will be tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (1)
