Guatemala The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Guatemala.
author. - (PL) Mr President, in recent months in Guatemala there have been a number of unexplained murders, unexplained threats, cases of intimidation of trade union activists, politicians, and of society as a whole.
Human Rights Watch published its recent report on human rights in January 2007.
This report states that during the 36-month dirty war in Guatemala, which ended in 1996, some 200 000 people were killed.
I repeat, 200 000 people were killed during the 36-month dirty war in Guatemala.
Over the last 20 years we have witnessed the process of democratisation in Guatemala, including many achievements concerning the rule of law, and the development of democratic institutions.
Let me remind the House that in 2005 between 70 and 80 million documents linked to the dissolved national police were found.
When we were dealing with Guatemala in the urgent debate in the last session a few months ago, I reminded the House that in the early 1970s, that is more than 30 years ago, a German diplomat, Karl Graf von Spreti, was abducted and murdered by terrorists in Guatemala; he was a prominent Bavarian politician who always spoke out for freedom and we shall shortly be marking the anniversary of his death again in Bavaria.
Since then, the country has still not found rest, despite a degree of democratisation in the last 20 years.
author. - (PL) Mr President, in distant Guatemala, three members of the national Parliament were killed.
We are reacting to the situation in a state whose President has publicly acknowledged that his country's police force is riddled with corruption.
We are referring to a country in which several thousand murders take place every year, and which, like Colombia, is involved in the drugs trade.
Now, as the House will be aware, the authorities of the Central American Parliament are discussing with Daniel Ortega, the re-elected President of Nicaragua, the possibility of moving the seat of the Central American Parliament to Nicaragua from Guatemala where the danger is so high.
author. - (DE) Mr President, the human rights situation in Guatemala is frightening.
The response from thousands of people from Guatemala is relatively clear; we saw that when US President George W.
Bush also promised Guatemala further support in fighting organised crime, especially drug gangs.
author. - Mr President, Madam Commissioner, the European Parliament has passed a number of resolutions on Guatemala in the past.
The callous murder in mid-February 2007 of three members of the Central American Parliament and the alleged involvement in this and many other crimes of police officials is a reminder that impunity and police corruption in Guatemala are still very much in existence.
Thousands of people are murdered each year in Guatemala, but arrests have been made in just 2% of cases.
One of the most recent cases has been the murder of the campesino leader, Pedro Zamora, in Puerto Queztal, which we reported to the Commission and the Council.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Mr President, Guatemala is one of Latin America's poorest countries.
Out of Guatemala's population of 11 million, more than half live on the verge of poverty.
We should remember that the war spanned 36 years and is estimated to have cost the lives of more than 200 000 civilians.
The people of Guatemala are still suffering particular and permanent violence, intimidation, corruption, and breaches of their civil rights.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, our resolution on the murder of three El Salvador members of the Central American Parliament and their driver near Guatemala City, the capital of Guatemala and seat of the administration of the Central American Parliament, is a protest against banditry affecting innocent people.
Sadly, the population has not been fortunate in its governments.
Despite genuine efforts in the last three years to reinforce the rule of law, the Government has had to recognise that insecurity and impunity were deeply rooted in Guatemala.
It is hoped that the recent events will mark a turning point in the security debate in Guatemala.
