I am sure this will provoke strong feelings among you, but there are very many Members who have put their names down to speak, and I believe they are present. (LV) Mr President, it was not really clear on which report I could speak now.
Mr President, with this EUR 5 billion package, the majority of which has been directed towards rural development, I would particularly like to emphasise the fact that it is very important to look not only at official indicators, but also at the real needs of rural development.
Thank you. - (SK) The Stavreva report is one of three reports incorporated into the EUR 5 billion combined package.
So it is because the President in the chair at the time broke our own Rules of Procedure that we are here tonight, and all of us that are trying to make our explanations of vote are doing what we can legitimately do to raise our voices in a Parliament that does not really like to listen to minorities.
The difference enables us to interpret matters.
Mr Leinen, earlier today, told us that it was actually more of a social Europe.
I would like to thank all those who sent us e-mails about this.
The reason we are here is because the vote was not followed, as is explicitly provided for in Rule 163, by explanations of vote.
This says that once the debate has concluded, every Member shall have the right to make an explanation of vote in not more than 60 seconds.
Rejection of Amendment 28 would have given at least the possibility for maintaining or introducing a ban on such practices in particular Member States.
Adoption of Amendment 28 reveals the true, bloodthirsty face of this Parliament.
Finally, Mr President, can I thank you for all those who are here tonight, because I think only the lonely are here tonight, and we are all hopelessly devoted to you because that is why we are here tonight. (ET) European social models face many problems at the moment, for instance demographic changes and globalisation, which also influence the models under discussion.
Mrs Oviir, you are not bothering me in the slightest, moreover I am pleased to tell you that you are the last speaker, on the last report. (ET) Sometimes it is good to be first, and sometimes it is good to be last.
I would like to mention the following things: in the present severe economic crisis, the European Union's labour market is controlled by the reality that more and more people are being made redundant, which in turn will increase the total number of individuals suffering from poverty and alienation in Europe.
Mrs Oviir, your fan club has stayed to the end.
The next sitting will start shortly, because it is already Thursday 7 May 2009, the last day of the sixth legislative term of the European Parliament.
