Protection and conservation of the marine environment: Marine Strategy Directive (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Framework for Community Action in the field of Marine Environmental Policy (Marine Strategy Framework Directive) [09388/2/2007 - C6-0261/2007 - (Rapporteur: Marie-Noëlle Lienemann).
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive that Parliament should adopt at its second reading is extremely important because it is the first directive that forces Member States to have an environmental strategy to restore the seas and oceans to a good ecological status.
The first aim is to restore our seas and oceans to a good ecological status.
We have largely been satisfied in that the criteria for good ecological status have been extended to include pressure from all pollutants affecting an ecosystem and the need to evaluate them and reduce their impact with this aim of restoring good ecological status.
The deadline is 2020, but the Member States must not drag their feet because they need to have the directive transposed by 2010.
This directive marks the beginning of a new approach for protecting our seas and our oceans.
The efforts of Parliament to enhance the ambition of this legislative initiative have borne fruit, and they have made sure that the agreed directive will be an effective instrument for protecting our seas and our oceans in an integrated manner.
The objective of the proposed directive is that Member States take the necessary measures to achieve good environmental status in the marine environment by the year 2020 at the latest.
This directive sets out a new framework for working, for the first time, together in an integrated manner to protect our seas and oceans.
She has been a good leader in the negotiations and has also listened to the other groups.
This is the kind of legislation our Community needs.
I would like to state that I agree that a more strongly opinionated report would have been even more effective.
The wellbeing of all the EU regions and millions of EU citizens depends on the good environmental status and productivity of the surrounding seas and oceans.
I welcome the fact that the European Union is taking on the role of global leader once again and is committed to achieving good marine environmental status in 13 years time.
The Member States will provide an initial assessment up to 2012, defining good environmental status and declaring coherent environmental goals.
The targets must all be achieved by 2020.
Let us not forget that there are 27 countries around the Mediterranean, and only seven of them are Member States.
We should therefore all sit down together and see what we can do.
Fourthly, we should get fishermen to participate in this effort.
We in the European Parliament have higher ambitions than the Commission and I am glad that we have set the deadline for achieving a good environmental status at 2017 and not 2021.
I also wish separately to emphasise my own support for Amendment 29 to the report, which seeks to establish the Baltic Sea Marine Region as a pilot area for implementing the European Union Marine Strategy.
The Helsinki Convention, which established protection for the Baltic Sea, did the necessary groundwork to that end in the context of the Baltic Sea Action Plan.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, on the basis of the agreed texts, Member States will now have to establish marine strategies for their marine waters.
The Member States will establish monitoring programmes and will then elaborate, as from 2015, programmes and measures necessary to achieve the objectives.
Most importantly, the objective of the directive is now clear and ambitious, as Member States are required to take the necessary measures to achieve good environmental status in the marine environment by the year 2020 at the latest.
Member States will have to establish marine-protected areas to meet their objectives under this directive in accordance with the international commitments of the Community and the Member States.
The implementation of this directive will, in fact, require this enhanced coordination.
As highlighted by Parliament, this integrated action plan is a useful first example and a resource that will facilitate progress in the implementation of the directive.
Furthermore, the Directive forces the Member States to achieve good environmental status in the marine environment by 2017 and to create the regulations necessary for this.
