Under the 1996 Directive, however, posted workers have to observe a nucleus of mandatory rules for minimum protection in the host Member State.
One institution which does much to promote intercultural dialogue is the British Council.
The work of the British Council in Russia is perfectly legal.
It is regulated by a 1994 cultural agreement between London and Moscow.
This would help us all to implement the Lisbon Strategy. (ES) Mr President, the Commission's Work Programme for 2008 states that the citizen is and should be the core of the European project.
I believe that the European Union should use these words as a reference for situations that arise both within and outside its borders. - (CS) I would like to talk about an awkward issue, which is the widespread campaign against smoking and smokers in the European Union, a campaign which is also based on legal acts passed by the European Parliament.
The Assembly's decision that the environmental/fishing zone should affect the Member States from 1 January of this year is contrary to the international obligation accepted by Croatia and gives reason to doubt its credibility.
The murder of Alexander Litvinenko has still not been solved and Russia refuses to cooperate in the matter.
The chief suspect, Andrei Lugovoi, has been a member of the Duma since the end of 2007.
Mr President, Mr Hu Jia, an AIDS campaigner, a human rights activist and nominee of this Parliament for the Sakharov Prize in 2007 was arrested in Beijing on 27 December 2007 by the Chinese authorities and charged with subversion.
Secondly, I want to ask the Commission not to wait until this is transposed into national law in 27 Member States - that could take up to two years - but to start implementing some of the provisions, one of which is to set up a contact group of the 27 Member States with the Commission to start working to counteract the illegal use of weapons.
I wish to register a strong protest against this. (FR) Mr President, on Friday, 11 January I was refused access to the Lille-Lesquin Detention Centre for foreigners.
Last but by no means least, we need more and better international cooperation. (RO) 2008 is the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue.
The Union's motto is ”Unity in diversity”, and 2008 should make a real contribution to strengthening cohesion within the Union, using intercultural dialogue as a basis.
However, intercultural dialogue should include interdenominational dialogue.
It is my hope that the intercultural dialogue of 2008 will make an effective contribution to fostering peace, one of the European Union's fundamental values. (DE) Mr President, the matter I wish to raise follows directly on from what Mrs Ţicău has just said: the 2008 Year of Intercultural Dialogue.
