Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament, adjourned on Thursday 20 September 2001.
On 21 September, Toulouse was struck by a disaster on an unprecedented scale, in which 29 people died and 2500 were injured.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we pay tribute to the victims of all these attacks by now observing a minute' s silence. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) Speeches relating to points of order: Onesta (Verts/ALE). (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your words of sympathy and solidarity.
Then, we must decide upon an initiative, along the lines of Article 7 of the Treaty of Nice, enabling the Council to determine that there is a clear risk of a serious breach by a Member State of the fundamental principles of the European Union and to address recommendations to that State.
I therefore suggest, Madam President, that the Conference of Presidents examines what significant political action we would be advised to take in this matter. (Applause from the GUE/NGL Group) Madam President, I would like to say again on behalf of our group what I said on 12 September - I believe with the agreement of all in this European Parliament - namely that the terror perpetrated by human beings must not be confused with the peace-loving Muslim faith.
On behalf of our group, let me say here and now that we reach out our hands to all peace-loving Muslims, wherever they live throughout the world, be it outside the European Union, in the Arab and Islamic states or in a country of the European Union; we want peace, partnership and friendship with all Muslims of good will!
And that, I think, applies not just to us but to the Heads of State who have applied to become members of the European Union.
Madam President, I want to say some words about Martin O'Hagan, the journalist murdered in Northern Ireland a couple of days ago.
The few words I have said about Martin O'Hagan are entirely inadequate to convey the shock and the horror that people of all political and religious persuasions in Ireland feel at this horrible deed.
We should stop referring to them as Protestants, Catholics or Muslims: they are political extremists.
The individuals concerned adhere to one or other religion, or have no religion, but their objectives are political, and the one common thing that unites them is their contempt for democracy and humanity. (Applause) Madam President, as a parliamentarian I feel myself to be represented by the President of this House above all others, and so it is to you that I wish to address a very specific query relating to what was said by Mr Barón Crespo.
In view of the fact that you have had very forthright things to say in other situations - which I did not always find easy to defend back home, but I defended you because I have always valued your clear language - I think it important that you should find equally clear and unambiguous words in this connection.
This was a natural thing to do as President and I knew that I was repeating the views of the House by stating this, and I certainly made this very clear in my first statement.
Madam President, I would go so far as to say that it would be dangerous for this House to focus on a statement such as this now: at such a sensitive time as this, we need clarity, transparency and positive thinking - not a vitriolic debate - and, most importantly, we have to have the ability, which I do not see in the opposition, to extend a hand and interpret what people say in the positive sense intended rather than always placing a negative interpretation on things.
Agenda The next item is the final version of the draft agenda, as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents, pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
Madam President, I believe that this Parliament is making a certain degree of progress in dealing with issues which concern our citizens and in which the European Union must have a political profile.
I believe that in the case of the Toulouse disaster the change to the agenda is perfectly justified.
The European Union is contributing to the humanitarian effort, but I believe this is an issue on which we have to state our position.
These are the reasons why my group has proposed this change to the agenda.
I hope that this text will receive broad support.
I shall now put to the vote the request by the Group of the Party of European Socialists. (Parliament gave its assent) Madam President, I would very much like to add to what has been said.
Mr Barón Crespo, the right time for calm discussion of this would have been at the Conference of Presidents last Thursday, when you were absent - which is not an accusation, these things happen to us all.
Yesterday I spoke to Mr Patten on this matter and hope there will be some development in this regard involving not only Parliament but the European Union as a whole.
Mr McMillan-Scott, we shall try to organise this as best we can.
I actually met him on Tuesday 11 September when I was in Italy attending a meeting of 500 young people in Rome.
I made an appointment and, on behalf of the European Parliament, I went to meet the former king of Afghanistan.
Madam President, last week, those of us in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party were agreed that there is only one urgent subject that ought to be dealt with in Parliament in this plenary sitting, and that is international terrorism and the need to build an international coalition to combat this.
The first request I have is from the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the Party of European Socialists to add a new heading entitled 'East Timor' .
There was a statement recently by a statesman, who should speak in a statesmanlike manner, but who, when speaking about Muslims and Christians, actually, in my opinion, dropped something of a clanger.
Without wishing to exacerbate the issue, we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that, after 11 September, a major government coalition party held public demonstrations with boards saying 'Immigrants = terrorists' , and that, in recent days, two mayors of cities in Northern Italy from the same party have ordered the closure of the premises used as mosques.
Nevertheless, at this time when major alliances are being formed, I would like to send out from this House a personal message of great solidarity and support to the Afghan, Saudi, Iranian, Kuwaiti and Chechen women, to the women of all those countries who are currently fighting and will continue to fight in the coming years.
My colleague and the Chairman of my group, Mr Barón Crespo, and my colleague Mr Swoboda were demanding that you condemn outright the words of Mr Berlusconi.
I shall also send my statement of 22 September, declaring that the European Council is firmly committed to the fight against terrorism, and in which I solemnly confirm the European Union' s commitment to protecting democratic and multicultural societies.
Madam President, in my opinion, the words of the Italian Prime Minister have been misinterpreted by some, and exploited for internal political ends by others who have even used the platform of the European Parliament to exploit them for the purposes of European politics.
Madam President, the Italian Prime Minister has made a very practical proposal, and I would like the European Parliament to express its opinion on this matter.
Madam President, the left-wing Members appear to be extremely restless.
Following the tragedies in New York and Washington, many other aspects of our lives have inevitably been changed for ever and I would like to ask the Commission to make a statement on the issue of state aids to airlines.
In a small peripheral country such as my own, the survival of a national airline is of vital importance to the economy and already in Ireland over 700 jobs are threatened at Aer Lingus.
I appeal to you, Madam President, to use your good offices to impress upon the Commission the concern of this House about the impact of the atrocities of 11 September in Europe where thousands, if not millions, of jobs are at risk.
Mr De Rossa, this is an extremely important issue and I shall of course forward this message to the Commission.
The Commission has been in contact with European and other airlines and there have been discussions about state aid or insurance and how these should be channelled.
It is very difficult to operate without an airline such as the national airline, Aer Lingus.
It seems to me that the Commission should take an early decision on the necessity to support airlines such as Aer Lingus and Sabena.
Too many people's jobs and families' welfare are at risk unless something can be done in this respect.
Human rights lawyers have been assassinated as well by loyalist paramilitaries.
According to the latest reports, 29 people were killed, 30 people are still in hospital in a serious condition and in total around 2400 people were injured.
The accident also affected two other chemical plants in the vicinity.
This accident is perhaps the worst of its kind in Europe since 1921, when an explosion at the BASF company in Germany claimed the lives of 561 citizens.
The directive obliges the operator of these facilities to put in place a major accident prevention policy, a safety management system and internal emergency plans.
The directive came into force in 1999 and replaced the original Seveso directive from 1982 that was adopted following major industrial accidents in the 1970s.
It is no secret that Member States were late with their transposition of the Seveso II directive into national law.
No Member State adopted transposition legislation in time or notified the Commission hereof in time.
Therefore the Commission started infringement proceedings against all 15 Member States for non-communication or incomplete communication of transposition measures.
For France, the Commission decided on 18 July 2001 to apply to the Court for incomplete transposition.
The last updates were made in 2000 and 2001.
The last inspection took place in May 2001.
You might recall that after the Baia Mare accident, the cyanide spill in Romania in January 2000, I created a task force that presented its final report in December last year.
The new Article 12 on land use planning in the Seveso II directive aims in the long term at the separation of hazardous industrial establishments and inhabited areas or other locations frequented by the public.
In order to assist Member States with the implementation of this provision, a guidance document on land use planning was published in 1999 and plans for a European seminar on land use planning to be hosted by France were already under way before the accident in Toulouse.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 September, Toulouse was struck by a terrible disaster which, as Mrs Wallström said, claimed many victims - 29 people died and more than 2 000 people were injured - and considerable damage was caused to housing, schools, hospitals and universities.
The European Union budget used to include a heading for emergency aid to deal with these disasters, but this was withdrawn.
I therefore call on the European Commission to take into account the lessons of the disaster in Toulouse when revising the Seveso II directive.
Secondly, my thoughts are also with those of my fellow Members who are more directly involved, due to their responsibilities in the region.
What you said is important.
You also mentioned the debate that is underway on how to best reconcile land use planning, environmental risk, industrial risk and employment.
The work that you have carried out with the aim of revising the Seveso directive should take into account every aspect of this balance.
Many other Members, in addition to myself, will take part in this debate on additional measures which could be envisaged, including at a European level, particularly with regard to monitoring.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I would like to join previous speakers in expressing my group' s solidarity with the families, the victims' relatives and the people of Toulouse as a whole.
We should avoid responding to this industrial catastrophe with a Seveso III directive.
The AZF factory was nothing more and nothing less than a time bomb situated less than five kilometres from the centre of Toulouse, a city with a population of 400 000.
In France, there is a national debate on the issue of risks to the urban population.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the speakers who have taken part in this debate, as I believe that, despite our political differences, we know that we must pull together in the face of tragedy.
The European Union has always been very sensitive to the question of solidarity and I believe that the large corporations are quite prepared to relocate, but they can quite easily contemplate relocating to the developing world, where there is no environmental protection and no social protection.
We are, I believe, now awaiting specific and firm proposals from the Commission.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like other Members from the region, I was in Toulouse at the time of the explosion.
The first question we should address is that of making these industries as safe as possible.
This review process must be undertaken in tandem with a mission whose work is open to the whole of Europe and which has the task of carrying out an assessment of European safety.
We believe that it is a matter of urgency to establish environmental strategies, to implement risk studies, also in industrial areas, to create specific industrial areas far from towns, to penalise those builders or local authorities who allow anything for the sake of construction, and of course establish risk indicators which are incorporated into a European policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like us, through our fellow Members from Toulouse who are with us today, starting with the President of the sitting, to express our condolences and our solidarity with all the victims of the tragedy in Toulouse.
In my municipality, which has a factory just like the one in Toulouse, building permits are still being issued for communal housing, less than 800 metres from the site.
Mainly, Commissioner, I would say that the draft amendment to the Seveso II directive must take account of these problems of urban growth, not least by increasing the responsibilities of businesses but also of the elected authorities that issue building permits.
Lastly, the disaster has shown up the loopholes in the Seveso directive and in the policies implemented by the European Union.
Member States must transpose European Union directives, and also comply with existing directives on environmental protection.
I do not want to play the role of Cassandra, but I would not wish anyone to experience what we in Toulouse went through on 21 September.
My thoughts go to the victims of the explosion, to the men and women who died working at the AZF factory in Toulouse and who join the ranks of all those who die every day in a work-related accident because their companies have given priority to profit over safety.
TotalFinaElf, which last year made the greatest profit ever seen by a French company, has the cynicism to toss FRF 20 million to the victims to cover damages that are estimated at FRF 8 billion at the very least.
The Seveso I directive represented a huge step forwards.
Seveso II is an improvement on this but has yet to prove itself, since it has not yet been fully implemented.
Thirdly, it is absolutely crucial that the Commission present, as rapidly as possible, its draft directive on environmental responsibility, which is the only solution that will force negligent or even unwilling factory owners to comply with restrictive regulations.
Mr President, the Total/Fina/Elf group is already guilty of committing a crime against the environment through the shipwreck of the oil tanker Erika and has acted criminally, once again, with the explosion of the AZF factory in Toulouse: 29 people are dead, more than 2 500 injured and a whole community ravaged.
It is important to remember that first of all we have to look at exactly what happened and what caused this terrible accident in Toulouse.
As you know, we have a Civil Protection Unit that is immediately activated to offer the Member State in question the help and assistance of the network of different experts in all Member States.
So we will definitely follow this up in a careful and coordinated way, in cooperation with the Member States, in order to see what more is needed as regards prevention.
We will continue to offer our help and assistance.
The debate is closed.
More than ten million citizens in Europe have sleeping disorders.
All citizens in Europe are entitled to the same protection against unhealthy noise levels.
We desperately need European noise standards pertaining to aircraft.
The action campaigns must also aim to reduce noise.
There has been much debate about the directive in this House, and unfortunately I have recently doubted on occasion whether all those taking part in the debate had actually read the proposal properly.
What I need to get off my chest - and I cannot explain it in any other way - is that I believe that military airbases should also be measured.
Most proposals have been re-instated from the original Commission proposal.
The same applies to the action plans.
Amendment No 22 says that the Member States must ensure that the noise maps and action plans are posted on the Internet two months at the latest after being approved.
Mr President, it may well be that 100 years ago our cities resounded to the noise of iron wheels and iron hooves bouncing off cobbled stones.
I am all in favour of cutting noise and making life more pleasant, peaceful and calm.
I do not regard noise from airports as a transboundary issue and I am pleased that the committee rejected a number of the amendments which were tabled.
What is fascinating about this debate, as it was in committee and here now, is that for the best possible reasons - the improvement of health and enhancing the environment - measures have been suggested to us which represent a sort of creeping centralisation which, at the end of the day, makes the European Union seem bossy and interfering to far too many of our constituents.
We should take this opportunity, and indeed every opportunity, to put into practice our belief that wherever possible we should be applying strictly the principles of subsidiarity and making sure that when we take measures on behalf of the environment at European Union level it is because they will genuinely make a difference to individuals and cannot be done by individual Member States.
I am pleased that I, in the Netherlands, am not affected by the noise produced in Milan or Athens.
In other words, noise pollution is a local, or regional, problem.
In other words, I am in favour of European standards for low-noise tyres but am opposed to the requirement that the cobblestones be removed from the streets in Brussels on account of European policy.
The Council has already taken things very far in the environmental noise directive.
Last week, I attended the ICAO Conference in Montreal on behalf of the European Parliament.
In principle, this problem should therefore be solved locally, that is to say by the competent airport authority.
In various airports, this is already the case in that flight bans are issued for the noisiest aircraft or for certain night flights.
Thanks to modern technology, it is possible to produce aircraft which produce six times less noise than aircraft built thirty years ago.
I advocate comparable rules of measurement within the European Union as a matter of principle, and I also believe it to be self-evident that the action plans we arrive at on the basis of these measurements must be drawn up by the member countries, which must also implement and supervise them.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Florenz, I think these directives require us to consider in principle whether we want further exemptions for many governmental bodies, as the individual citizen does not, of course, care whether the aircraft causing the noise are civilian or military.
I believe that we should steer our joint efforts towards finding out what people find acceptable or intolerable and decide on that basis what steps to take.
As numerous speakers have said, realistically speaking, it seems to me that there are practically no cases in which noise, at the level most citizens suffer it, should be dealt with in a cross-border fashion.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Alexander de Roo on his tenacity in the fight against noise pollution.
Health is tied in with the environment and with the way in which we pollute the environment.
There are already European rules in place for noise pollution, for example pertaining to the noise standards for lawnmowers.
Noise emission standards for certain products, such as cars, pleasure boats, lorries, trains, aircraft and industrial equipment are essential.
The European Parliament pointed at the lack of data on various sources of noise a long time ago, and a common method must be found for measuring and assessing noise.
This is indeed a huge task, but why should we lay down regulations which, in reality, concern not only Member States but must also take account of differences between these countries and, above all, encourage local authorities to adopt the necessary measures in line with their local situation rather than us deciding for them?
Locally elected representatives are responsible for deciding on what needs to be done in each town, county or region.
There are international airports, and there are national airports and there are considerable differences between airports.
As far as noise indicators are concerned, I agree with the Council's position allowing the Member States to move the night period by up to two hours because the southern countries have a different climate from the northern countries and I think this arrangement is essential.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, more and more Europeans are affected by environmental noise, but despite this, the European Union has been slow to implement a common policy in the field of noise.
Not only because the noise caused by night-time air traffic is more responsible than any other for depriving the general public of sleep, but also because, as a result of the lack of common regulations in the European Union, we have seen terrible distortions of competition between airports and a lack of fairness towards the citizens of the various Member States.
Thirdly, I welcome the amendments proposed for the joint position on noise indicators.
This new legislation must be implemented as rapidly as possible, but in order to ensure that it is complied with, Member States need to invest very quickly in the technical and human resources that are essential to monitoring and supervising its implementation.
One of the main reasons why the Europe we share is so fascinating is the many differences there are in our part of the world.
Aircraft, cars and trains move between different countries and environments.
I would like a response from the Commission in view of the opinion of the Advocate-General, delivered on 20 September last, on the preliminary ruling on the invalidity of Articles 2 and 3 of Regulation (EC) No 925/99 on restricting the use of aircraft at European airports in the interests of protection against noise.
Mr President, I should like to make a couple of general points and a couple of specific points about this report.
If an airport, for instance, is located in the centre of a city, then the limit values that should be acceptable there are completely different to those at an airport located out on a peninsula in a quiet rural area.
There are 51 different ways to measure noise, but could we not agree on the means of measuring it within the Community?
With regard to this last topic, I understand the concerns expressed by some Members who have tabled amendments making the case for proposals for daughter directives as of now to set new limit values for sources and environmental noise.
The Commission believes that it would be premature at this stage to come up with proposals setting new limit values for noise.
For these reasons, we cannot accept the amendments introducing daughter directives and limit values, but we are willing to propose further actions as soon as possible, which is why we wholeheartedly accept amendments strengthening the timetable.
The directive does not concern specific sources such as aircraft engines and hushkits.
However, as I said earlier, we believe that it would be premature to set new limit values, and thus we cannot support Amendments Nos 2, 3, 6 and 33.
Several amendments also help clarify the text, and, furthermore, we accept Amendments Nos 4, 7, 8, 14, 27, 28 and 29.
On the harmonisation of the common noise indicators, Lden and Lnight, Amendment No 11 makes the case for the compulsory use of these indicators for acoustical planning and noise zoning, while Amendment No 34 reintroduces the definition of an action plan being 'designed to reduce noise where a limit value in Lden or Lnight is exceeded'.
Therefore, I am afraid we cannot support Amendments Nos 11 and 34.
However, since the directive now limits itself to strategic noise mapping, it is logical to support the principle of Amendment No 12.
On public information, Amendment No 22 requires that the information to the public be published on the Internet within two months.
As for the review clause under Article 11 of the proposal, Amendment No 24 seeks to delete the reference to 'different climates and cultures'.
In the annexes, we can support in part Amendment No 26, which seeks to make compulsory the provision of financial information on action plans.
Finally, we support Amendments Nos 30, 31, 32 and 35 to Annex VI, which partly restore the original provisions proposed by the Commission on the technical specification of strategic noise maps.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this very long title essentially covers machines with which we are all familiar, such as lawn mowers, chain saws, hedge trimmers, drills, all of which are mobile and to which environmental legislation has perhaps given too little attention in recent years.
In fact, Honda can produce overhead valve four-stroke engines that easily meet these requirements.
However, we have some particular problems with this piece of legislation, and in particular with chainsaws and the like.
We remember seeing those Trabants and Wartburgs coming across East Berlin; these types of two-stroke engines are dirtier but, in the case of chainsaws, there is no alternative.
Mr President, this legislation has often been referred to as the lawnmowers directive.
Amendment No 18 suggests that some financial support and incentives might be given to manufacturers.
As a result, emission levels are now less than 10 per cent of those that existed before we introduced these limits.
Obviously, we must do something about the emissions from machines of this type.
Products of the type affected by the proposal are sold to the very largest part of the world market, and more than 90 per cent of them are manufactured by large companies active in this market.
It has been important to the Commission to bring about a harmonisation of the legislation so as to make it easier to introduce the legislation quickly, provided of course that this can be done in a way that is in keeping with a high level of ambition in environmental terms.
The Commission is able to accept those amendments which enable the Member States to mark products which meet the stage II requirements and to use economic instruments of control to stimulate production and sales of such products even before the limit values become compulsory.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
the amended proposal for a Council decision on establishing the measures necessary for the implementation of the Protocol, annexed to the Treaty of Nice, on the financial consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty and on the Research Fund for Coal and Steel [COM(2000) 519 + COM(2001) 121 - C5-0165/2001 - 2001/0061(CNS)] II.
the amended proposal for a Council decision laying down multiannual financial guidelines for managing the assets of the 'ECSC in liquidation' and, on completion of the liquidation, the 'Assets of the Coal and Steel Research Fund' [COM(2000) 520 + COM(2001) 121 - C5-0166/2001 - 2000/0363(CNS)] III.
This revenue would be earmarked for a specific purpose, namely for financing research projects in the sectors related to the coal and steel industry.
With regard to the request for the codecision procedure to be applied, I would stress that the Commission' s legislative proposal is based on the Treaties and on the Nice Protocol, which states that the Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission after consulting the European Parliament, is to adopt all the necessary provisions for the implementation of this Protocol.
In practice, Parliament is deprived of any power, despite the fact that the administrative expenditure of the Coal and Steel Fund would have to be met from the general budget.
Indeed, the Commission' s document refers to the Treaty establishing the European Community, without specifying any particular article, and to the Protocol annexed to the Treaty of Nice, Article 2 - under which the European Parliament has consultation powers only - a Treaty which, however, is not yet in force and which it is highly unlikely will become effective before July 2002.
I therefore propose to request that the codecision procedure be applied, as laid down in Article 2.5.1 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in this I believe and hope I can count on the same support from this House that I received in the Committee on Budgets.
Then, with regard to the full budgetisation of interests and the possibility of the administrative costs being met from this budget line, Parliament gave its consent in 1998 for all the interests of the Fund to be used for research.
In my opinion, and in this I am supported by the coordinators of the political groups in the Committee on Budgets, if the line I have taken in the legislative amendments is endorsed by this House, before expressing the European Parliament' s opinion, we should enter into negotiations with the Council and the Commission, seeking to increase our institution' s role.
It is a death and a rebirth together, for other treaties arose from this one, and at the end of the day, the European Union is based on what it had in mind.
In this context, I would like to point out that Robert Schuman at the Paris Conference in 1950 - held on 9 May, which is of course our Europe Day - observed that this was the first stage of European federation.
Even that creates more than one class of research in the European Union.
The consequence would be that the Commission would reconsider and would perhaps present a report on how this could be translated into action.
It would be no bad idea to do that on a European scale.
Apart from that, I hope that this research fund really will give rise, in the next five to ten years, to a second support for research in the European Union.
We would thereby be making good this undemocratic error which is, in this day and age, really intolerable.
From a budgetary point of view, the report proposes certain innovations which, after discussion in our parliamentary committee, have been accepted by all the political groups in that committee.
We are therefore voting in favour of the Turchi report and the whole strategy it proposes.
Mr President, I support the proposals in the Linkohr report.
It is a great pity that we are moving away from the social policy aspects of these Funds, which provided some relief for companies and, in particular, the workers of companies who were being restructured.
ISPAT in Cork, Ireland, which was formerly a state company, was bought over some years ago by a private company and is now in liquidation.
This Treaty, along with the Euratom Treaty, remained outside the treaties establishing the European Union and therefore outside democratic scrutiny and control.
Finally, the expiry of the ECSC Treaty after 50 years reminds us that the Euratom Treaty, which has also existed outside the democratic scrutiny and control of this Parliament, is an anomaly as more and more Member States are moving away from nuclear energy and towards new forms of energy and that this anomaly, which happily will end with the Coal and Steel Community, still continues with the Euratom Treaty.
We still, too, have the day of commemoration of 9 May 1950, that day when Robert Schumann presented the brilliant plan of Jean Monnet from the South of France and thereby laid the foundations of what we today call the European work for peace.
The ECSC Treaty has two successors: the subject of our speeches today and, as regards future coal mining, the aid issues with which we will deal later on.
I would like to make four brief remarks about the two reports before us.
Second, it is right to use the annual revenue of EUR 45 million to support coal and steel research.
That means that everything that is to be organised at a European level must be measured against the yardstick of fundamental rights and is bound by them.
As has been pointed out, the treaty expires on 23 July of next year.
These proposals are the final product of a long discussion process initiated by the Commission ten years ago.
For the two decisions on the financial and research guidelines respectively, the Commission has followed the same line as for other, similar proposals in research policy or regarding our financial regulation.
You also suggested that within two years, by 24 July 2004, the Commission should make proposals to enlarge the post-ECSC research fund into a European research foundation covering all research sectors over and above steel and coal.
The first reason is that the management of the ECSC funds after 23 July 2002 will involve three aspects: firstly, the management of the ECSC commitments existing on that day until their expiry - and in some cases they will continue for 20 years or more; secondly, the financial management of the ECSC assets; and thirdly, the management of the research fund financed from the resources produced from this financial management.
I can assure you that we will continue to attach great importance to these considerations, as well as the issue of safety at work, in the research guidelines which we are now proposing.
