Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 19 June 2003.
Piet Dankert was the very model of a Parliamentarian - resolute, straightforward, plain-speaking - who served the interests of his electorate, his party and of the European Parliament.
I invite you to observe one minute's silence for our colleague Pieter Dankert. (The House rose and observed one minute's silence) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Piet Dankert, from Stiens in Friesland, whose enthusiasm for social democracy had been kindled by his Frisian grandfather, started his career as a teacher, and made an important contribution in Europe in many roles, of which I should like to list a few examples.
In 1979, Piet Dankert managed to give the European Parliament more bite by deploying budget legislation as a political instrument in an inventive manner.
In 1979, Piet Dankert made a very conscious and clear decision in favour of the European Parliament over the Dutch Second Chamber.
The following changes have been proposed Mr President, I do indeed have an objection to make to this.
However, if you wish to have a debate also, this could be added at the end of business on Tuesday, because the agenda for Wednesday is already very full. (The President established that there were no objections to this proposal) Mr President, I would like to raise the matter of the European Youth Parliament and the funding of EUR 180 000, which this Parliament approved for the year 2003.
Mr President, you were very quick in drawing up the work plan.
I have been the rapporteur for this report by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and the report was voted through by 27 votes in favour and two against.
I should have liked to see a debate, but it would be good if we could take a decision on this issue in the course of this week.
In accordance with Article 110a, I should like this report to be voted on this week.
His name is Jamil Bassam and he has been living in the UK for 25 years.
Mr President, please allow me to thank you on behalf of all Andalusian fishermen, and on my own behalf, for the efforts you are making to persuade the Portuguese authorities to free Agustín García, the fisherman who, as you know, has spent more than two months in prison.
Mr President, I, like a previous speaker, wish to refer to the case of Mr Abrahim Khodabandeh and Mr Jamil Bassam, both of whom are residents of Barnet, in my constituency.
These reports have been ongoing over the past week.
Mr President, this afternoon in Laos the verdict has been reached in the case of three westerners.
A Belgian, Thierry Falise, a Frenchman, Vincent Reynaud and their American interpreter of Hmong origin have been sentenced to 15 years in prison.
Mr Musotto has had to make the request and inform us of his situation himself; the Presidency and the Committee on Legal Affairs have expressed an opinion and the opinion will now, with tomorrow's vote, provided that it is still in line with the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal, become a Parliamentary document.
Mr President, it is essential that the outcome of tomorrow's vote is enforced outside this House too, where the Public Prosecution Department in question is concerned, for it is essential not just that it is clear to everybody but - seeing as so much hangs on that word 'immunity' in my country - that it is enforced as a general principle as well as in the case in point.
I therefore ask, Mr President, not just for the House's decision to be communicated to those to whom it directly relates but for a clear, precise, unambiguous principle to be established, which, thus far, has certainly not been followed by certain courts.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be tomorrow at noon.
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0218/2003) by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Council common position with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading (5390/4/2003 - C5-0143/2003 - 2001/0117(COD)) (Rapporteur: Christopher Huhne).
Instead of having to use 15 separate prospectuses to reach retail investors in the existing European Union, in future an issuer of bonds or shares will only need one.
The single European market in new issues of shares and bonds is set to become a reality.
This will lead to more competition and, therefore, greater choice for investors, cheaper capital for businesses, and more funding opportunities for many businesses that might be denied finance if they were limited to their national market.
The Council and the Commission have accepted the vast majority of the amendments passed by Parliament at its first reading in March 2002: on the choice of EU regulator for bonds, on a light touch for small and medium-sized businesses, on tailoring requirements to different issues, on lightening the burden on issues.
Thanks to Parliament's insistence we have also reached compromise on the ability of national authorities to delegate approval of prospectuses to stock exchanges and others such as the nominated advisors in the aim market.
As regards the last-minute changes that were agreed only last week by the Council, we have also clarified that existing medium-term note programmes, a very important type of financing structure in the euro markets, can continue unchanged.
The Commission amended its proposal to take account of Parliament's position.
The Council's common position is broadly in line with this amended proposal.
In particular I should like to thank him for his report and for the 21 new amendments he has tabled.
In this context, we reject the first 47 amendments tabled, since those which could be accepted - even partially or in spirit - by the Commission are now covered by the 21 new amendments.
The second thing that did not get through - although this was adopted with the support of all groups in this House - was the increase in maximum value for each issuer from EUR 50 to EUR 100, in respect of which exceptions are possible.
I regard that as regrettable, but at least other points were accepted, among them the choice of a minimum nominal value of EUR 1 000 or USD 1 000 - now determined by reference to the market - for all loans.
That reflects in a very understated way the radical changes we have seen to this proposal, due in large part to the efforts made by this House.
The original proposal from the Commission could have devastated Europe's small-business stock markets such as Aim markets.
To require all issuers of bonds to issue in their home Member States would have been a retrograde step in creating an integrated capital market.
It is now quite clear that the prospectus directive will not prevent Member States from imposing the high corporate government standards that exist in many places, for example in the United Kingdom.
The prospectus directive was published without much extensive consultation and it has taken us longer to resolve the issues as a result.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report being debated today is vital for harmonising financial markets, since it will allow securities to be quoted on the stock exchange lists of all European markets.
This report also sets out to guarantee that all parties are given full information on the securities quoted.
These two questions remain pressing.
If a prospectus is authorised by a competent national authority, this authorisation will, as we know, be valid in all other Member States.
In December 2002, the Commission estimated that the creation of an efficient internal market in securities would result in a 1.1% growth in gross domestic product.
The recommendation for second reading, as presented to plenary, is a fine document.
One is that this text allows the issuers, from a denomination per unit of EUR 1 000 and upwards, to choose, when it comes to the approval of the prospectus, between, firstly, the competent authority of the Member State in which the issuer's registered office is situated; secondly, that of the Member State in which the securities are authorised to be traded on a regulated market; or, thirdly, that of the Member State in which the securities are offered to the public.
Having EUR 1 000 as the denomination per unit is far more realistic than the threshold value of EUR 5 000 estimated by the Council, as it will be small investors that will have a particular interest in it.
Secondly, this text allows the competent authorities to delegate the examination of the prospectus to other bodies possessing the necessary expertise.
In small Member States in particular - both present and future ones - the tradition is that prospectuses are examined by the stock exchanges.
The single market helps create the potential for such growth.
The common position may be less than perfect, but I feel that it does offer sufficient safeguards.
The committee's report allowed for no such thing, but the compromise does.
That, Mr President, is why I believe that we should all vote in favour of these amendments and adopt the proposed compromise.
In this directive, this House has again attached great value to the protection of small investors, who have in recent years been particularly unsettled, and we are obliged to restore small investors' confidence if we really do want to have a properly-functioning internal financial market from which everyone can benefit.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be on Wednesday.
I would like to thank Commissioner Bolkestein and all the members of his staff for losing no time in addressing the issue.
However, since that cannot happen, a requirement has been proposed which, moreover, already exists indirectly, according to which the basic principles of the legislation must, at any event, always be observed, including by independent territorial legislation.
The environmental and social dimensions have processes which are defined and can be defined specifically and therefore made mandatory by means of other vehicles and in other contexts.
However, some principles are laid down and proposed in the provision which refer particularly to respect for the needs of disadvantaged groups and the legislation on safety in the workplace.
All this is in the interests of the Union and in the interests of an internal market which must become increasingly consolidated and transparent.
Equally, with some redrafting, the Commission could accept Amendment No 29 to the public sector - or classic - directive and Amendment No 26 to the utilities directive, which emphasise certain possibilities which already exist in the social field.
I am ready, as always, to debate further this interesting issue with Parliament through answers to questions, though in respect of the real aim of public procurement rules, as interpreted and confirmed by the European Court of Justice.
Indeed, I have no doubt that we all agree that our priority is to make public procurement rules a simplified tool for public bodies to spend taxpayers' money as well as possible.
These differences of views have often meant that conflicting amendments have been adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market which, if accepted, would make legislation incoherent.
However, these amendments to the utilities directive would permit social award criteria to be used to meet social policy objectives concerning the behaviour or the social responsibility of the tenderer, rather than the intrinsic qualities of the product or service in question.
Their European federation even told us that they would not support any positive discrimination in favour of SMEs vis-à-vis big enterprises.
If we increase the thresholds, not only would we breach our international obligations, but we would also reduce efficiencies.
Finally, concerning the 'intra-group' exception of Article 23, the Commission already made it clear that it has major difficulties in accepting the extension of this exclusion to works and supply contracts.
In concluding I repeat that I am confident that by focusing on our main common goals to modernise, simplify and ensure an effective use of public money, we can provide a happy ending to the long saga of this reform to public procurement rules.
Finally, may I point out that the Commission's opinion on the individual amendments has been provided in writing Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to Commissioner Bolkestein's article in last Saturday's 'Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung' - an article, Commissioner, that you published under your own name - and from which, with your permission, I will quote just one extract: 'It is important that authorities should get the highest possible return on taxpayers' money, and that this important economic sphere should be fully opened up to competition in the internal market, as open and competitive procurement guarantees an improvement in services of general interest, ensures that public goods are used effectively, prevents corruption and stimulates both economic growth and the creation of jobs'.
Mr President, during the first reading of the directives being put to the vote, the European Parliament fought vigorously for the incorporation of social and environmental criteria in the procedures for concluding public contracts, confirming its role as the champion of the European social model and sustainable development.
Respect for the acquis communautaire on employment and environmental issues cannot be ignored in the procedure for concluding public contracts.
We would also stress that it is not enough to refer to social and environmental criteria in the preamble, they must also be included in the regulatory text of the directive.
The area of public contracts is also an ideal area for taking account of people with disabilities.
To conclude, production agencies must understand that, by helping to implement European social policy, they do not incur an economic burden; on the contrary, they have economic benefits, such as subsidies when public contracts are awarded.
It is therefore important that we bring about the simplification intended in the Commission's proposal.
On the contrary, we may find ourselves with more cross-border procurement as a result of simplifying the directive, applying the simplified procedure and having a larger number of electronic tenders.
The ELDR Group is concerned that Parliament's amendments, for example Amendment No 20, might reduce transparency on the subject of procurement in most Member States.
The ELDR Group wants us, then, to make efforts in the direction of simplification and modernisation.
The issue is: which exact text will best achieve that?
It was not just our view, but Parliament's view at first reading.
Let us restore the kinds of values that we asserted in the first reading position.
A municipality should be entitled to take environmental criteria into consideration in the award of a public contract.
Further economic and social progress in the Member States will depend on the fulfilment of both these important demands.
Parliament's demand for threshold values for public contracts - depending of course on the utility involved - to be increased is absolutely justified if we want (a) to reduce the very high costs involved in tendering on a Europe-wide basis, and (b) to give small and medium-sized businesses better opportunities in the European Union.
Commissioner Bolkestein, I really cannot see what you are getting at!
Therefore, we must be very clear in rejecting any amendments that try to do that.
Finally, I just wish to draw the House's attention to the merit of Amendment No 68 concerning monitoring.
Our second reading amendments in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market held out for at least these EUR 7 million.
I very much regret the fact that the demand for a higher - and actually reasonable - threshold value than EUR 7 million is unlikely to be possible in the final reading of the Procurement Directive.
Mr Bolkestein, you were right to say that taxpayers' money must be spent in the best way possible.
Mr President, Commissioner, as draftsman, at first reading, of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on this report, I intend to concentrate on the environmental issues and the issue of sustainable development.
We are all agreed that public procurement is a major economic factor in the EU, accounting for 14-16% of gross national income.
Public procurement, in which our common resources and common tax money are used, must contribute to sustainable development.
The Council's common position contained incompatible elements and was unacceptable at least where Articles 53 and 55 were concerned.
They also refer to a number of other points on which Swedish practice is much more efficient than what is proposed in these directives.
I think that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the award of contracts is one such example - I am tempted to say nightmare example - of legislation that creates public sector inefficiency and that gives rise to more problems than it solves.
This is a case in which I have to say that, for my own country, Austria, the advantages of this directive outweigh its disadvantages, not least because, on 1 September 2002, we implemented a new procurement law which owes much to the directive and to the draft directive.
The so-called market economy is on a life-support machine, kept alive by the state on a saline drip.
Furthermore, in Article 23 of the directive, why refuse to refer to another aspect of Community legislation, European eco-labels, justifying yourself by arguing that these are a non-mandatory set of guidelines?
The first concerns paragraph 2 of Article 27 in the classical directive and the equivalent text in the utilities directive.
My second concern applies to Article 53 in the classical directive.
The Commissioner and his services have consistently given far too negative an interpretation of ECJ jurisprudence on this point and that is why we have such clear difficulties emerging in our debate here over applying environmental and social considerations.
In a market economy there are factors wish push the market and factors which pull the market: the stick and the carrot.
Commissioner Bolkestein, why do we disagree on this point?
If we have to fight over this issue it is because you have a very new, liberal approach to Europe and we do not want that.
Mr President, I wish to concentrate on that part of the report concerning public procurement where, unfortunately, the untoward situation has arisen in which, even though we issued a sound report at first reading, the quality has, since then, gone seriously downhill, with regard too to the common position we have obtained from the Council.
I should like to say to some of those on the right wing who, in Parliament today, have accused us of being rabid environmental campaigners, that what is important in this case is that we in actual fact want to make public procurement transparent and to make it possible for social and environmental provisions to be incorporated into such procurement without, of course, disturbing the internal market.
It is in actual fact very simple, and fortunately we have a decision on this matter.
I recommend to the House here today that it consider adopting Amendment No 40 but that it avoid also accepting this clause.
Philips and Daf were in dire straits.
For example, I am very glad that this Parliament's initiative has succeeded in getting postal services included in the utilities directive.
Mr Bouwman mentioned an example from the one where he lives.
It is important to give a clear lead to our local authorities or to our public - in some cases private - utilities.
The Commission's proposals on eco-labels had foreseen such replacement, but this was not accepted during the legislative process.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
