In the context of the 2005 communication on restructuring and employment the Commission encouraged the European social partners to enter negotiations on this issue.
This approach is also backed in the 2005 Commission communication on restructuring and employment and the 2006 communication on corporate responsibility.
The 1994 Directive had actually designated 1999 as the revision date.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Airbus, Alcatel, Lucent and Delphi Systems are just the latest in a never-ending stream of instances of major restructuring that have led delegations of workers to come to us complaining of breaches of EU information and consultation laws, not just the Works Council Directive, but others too: directives on collective redundancies and transfers dating from the 1970s, and the Directive establishing a General Framework for Information and Consultation of Workers.
As I see it, the balance should be restored in that area at the earliest opportunity, and it may be advisable to revisit the fifth Company Law Directive and to ensure that, when monitoring businesses, a better balance is struck between the interests of shareholders and those of employees. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, recent events in the European Union have shown that information and consultation within the framework of the European Works Council function only in a highly inadequate manner.
The crises that Airbus is going through now, that Alcatel and Volkswagen went through in the past and that Peugeot will perhaps go through in the future, are harsh examples of just what is lacking in European social dialogue.
The Commission must make a commitment to induce companies to act responsibly, including by considering legislation on their social responsibility.
If we are talking about good European governance in companies, we cannot continue to resign ourselves to this situation. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that something bad must always happen before the Commission advances an opinion on a subject as important as strengthening the rights of workers in the area of information and consultation.
After 13 years it is time for this legislation to be fully brought to bear in order to ensure social peace in Europe. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, it is true, thirteen years ago now, on reading the texts, it was pointed out that, in our primary law, we had to incorporate social dialogue as the European social model's distinguishing mark.
In my constituency there was talk, with the advent of Power8, first of 1 200 job losses, then of 700, then of job losses solely amongst temporary workers and now we hear that Airbus actually wants to start hiring again!
I should like to point out that a number of companies have been brought before the French and Belgian courts recently for not upholding the directive and that in some cases, for example British Airways, the restructuring process has been put on hold until the law on consultation and information has been implemented in full.
There are therefore possibilities for a relatively effective approach, which is something that in my opinion we should bear in mind.
The vote on the motions for resolutions tabled at the end of the debate will take place during the next part-session, in Brussels, on Thursday 10 May.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - The reason for this statement and next month's resolution is the appalling situation regarding Airbus in Europe.
