Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 1 February 2001.
Agenda The next item is the final draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday, 8 February, pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
Madam President, I refer to the draft regulation on European political parties.
Secondly, Madam President, while we are on Tuesday's agenda, it is worrying to me that the European Parliament is holding a debate on the Commission's work programme for 2001 but does not have a resolution on that matter.
This is especially important since there are some 200 measures contained in the Commission's work programme for 2001 which Parliament will debate, but on which it will have no resolution.
In relation to extending this programme to the Council, that may be an interesting suggestion for the future; but the interested parties at the moment are the Commission and Parliament.
Thank you, Mr Barón Crespo.
Mr McMillan-Scott, as regards your second question, the Commission is not due to make a statement on political party funding during this part-session.
It might be helpful if the Commission could take this on board and tomorrow morning, in the statement it makes on the Commission's work programme for 2001 - or the Commission and Parliament's work programme, as I like to call it - make such a statement in public.
The parliamentary reason relates to the work of the committees in this Parliament.
This issue therefore interferes with the activity of this Parliament.
However, we have refrained from requesting an amendment to the agenda, as we have been informed that some groups are in favour of debating this subject in the European Parliament in principle, but perhaps at some other time.
I also understand that the Dutch Government is willing to receive all Members of the European Parliament who should like to obtain information or should like to enter into a discussion in order to discuss matters in the Netherlands, but Mrs Borst's agenda unfortunately does not permit her to be here this week.
In any case, I think it is extremely useful and necessary that the Dutch minister for health comes to provide clarification here before the Members of the European Parliament as well, because in our group, and in other groups too, there is exceptionally sincere concern about the Dutch euthanasia legislation concerned.
This is a serious concern that we have and it is our responsibility to discuss this issue as well as the cross-border effects that it has.
We are, of course, all very proud and gratified that the death penalty does not exist in a single Member State of the European Union, because the sanctity of human life is something that should unite us all.
I also believe that the debate is taking place in other European Union Member States as well as in the Netherlands.
Madam President, first of all I fully support the debate on euthanasia in this Parliament.
The Cairo Conference and the Beijing Women's Conference both stated the same thing.
It is unacceptable to turn a blind eye to this grave problem.
It should not be able to happen that a Member of the European Parliament is arrested en route to a parliamentary sitting and we request that you take action in this matter.
Madam President, first of all I should like to thank you very much because the aeroplane from Amsterdam to Strasbourg flew this morning and on time as well.
But I am taking the floor about another matter.
I put questions to the European Commission on 10 November about favouring public broadcasts regarding the auction of radio frequencies in the Netherlands.
Twenty-seven years after 1974, there is still a huge number of cases - over 1000 - of people whose fate is still unknown.
Parliamentary immunity is not a privilege designed to benefit individual Members of the European Parliament, but a guarantee of the independence of Parliament and its Members with regard to other powers.
Mr President, I am surprised that Members can joke or argue about the fact that a Member of Parliament has been arrested on European Union soil.
However, Mr President, I must take this opportunity to stress two points, which, I repeat, it is the duty of Parliament and all its Members to consider fully.
The provisions of Articles 9 and 10 refer to the beginning of the European Community, when the Members of this Parliament were members of national parliaments, and, in that context, the reference to national immunities is clear.
However, we have to be aware that, nowadays, the European Parliament plays a major role in the balance between the institutions, and I feel that it is extremely important to make the European Parliament fully independent of the Member States.
Mr President, I trust that I shall not have to apply for political asylum in a country which is not my own at any point in the future, but, above all, I feel that the statement delivered in the Chamber on the Member who has been arrested in Scotland should be deemed to be clear notification by a competent authority.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Let us take a closer look at accidents involving bulk carriers: 146 accidents in the last ten years, in which 780 seamen drowned.
Two main reasons for these accidents are indicated.
It will not prevent all accidents, seeing that fatal damage often arises outside the European Union.
We therefore support the incorporation of the BLU Code into Community legislation.
It is important that the text of the directive adheres as closely as possible to the BLU Code in order to prevent distortion of the competition between countries inside and outside the European Union.
Fourthly: it is common knowledge that the capacity of the port State control, or PSC, in the Member States is inadequate.
Finally, a few more observations about Amendments Nos 14, 13 and 16.
Amendment No 14 does not tie in with this, however, and I therefore cannot support it.
I am quite unable to support Amendment No 16 tabled by my fellow Members Mr Simpson and Mr Fava.
It imposes requirements on ships from outside the European Union, which have not been internationally agreed.
In recent years, the Commission has tabled a number of proposals for increasing maritime safety in various ways, and this as a result of a number of accidents affecting both people and the environment.
Erika I has been succeeded by Erika II, and there is presumably more to come.
During the next few months of the session, Parliament will have a number of reports on which to adopt positions in this area.
Indeed, even though there is European or international legislation in this area, the Member States fail to apply it properly.
We therefore support the Commission's call for the Member States to apply these provisions as of 1 January 2003.
Mr President, I would also like to thank my fellow Member, Mr van Dam for his report.
My group has two observations to make.
We will not support the proposal on the black box that is made in Amendment No 13.
Secondly, I have tabled an amendment in relation to Article 8.
That is why in a number of cases we feel that a Member State must also be able to assign control to the authorities that are in charge of port State control.
Apart from these two points, we are able to support the proposals in general.
It struck me, Mr van Dam, that you said that people must be invested in too, both people who exercise control ashore, the port State control and other types of control, and the people on the ships who have to know their job, because I think that that is an important element in the promotion of safety at sea.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr van Dam, I think it is an excellent report.
Of the 146 accidents - and it has all been said by a number of others before - one third can be traced back to problems with the hull and one third to navigation problems.
In the knowledge that a captain, together with the terminal operator, has to make a loading and unloading plan which must be put into effect and also monitored, we concur with the consideration not to include the so-called voyage data recorder in this amendment.
Finally, it can be said that we agree with the manner in which the other problems in the report have been resolved, matters concerning ISO quality management and, in particular, Community law too, into which a number of the BLU Code's sections have now been incorporated.
However, we cannot accept Amendments Nos 4, 13, 14 and 16 for reasons which I will explain.
As has been pointed out, over the last ten years more than 780 people have been lost in accidents involving bulk carriers within Community territory.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The European Union currently has numerous directives and regulations on related matters at its disposal.
The purpose of the proposal for a regulation is to replace all the existing committees dealing with safety at sea and the prevention of pollution from ships with a single Committee on Safe Seas.
The purpose of this committee is to facilitate the implementation of amendments to the relevant international conventions by the Member States.
As you all know, this procedure makes provision for and safeguards the powers of both the European Parliament and the Member States.
At the same time, however, the European Commission has opted for a procedure which ensures that it has the right to decide whether an international amendment to the regulations raises or lowers maritime safety standards.
The European Commission has presented the right proposal in an attempt at rational organisation and enhanced supervision of both Community and international law on maritime safety and the prevention of pollution.
The small number of amendments aim to clarify the text and hence to safeguard Parliament's rights to take part in the regulatory procedure.
Mr Bakopoulos' report is very good and aims to set up a Committee on Safe Seas, which is a step in the right direction.
This is a first stage in bringing together the various measures, as replacing the five existing committees with a single Committee on Safe Seas will enable the European Union to react rapidly to developments in international law.
The final EU classification of ports and harbours as part of the trans-European networks attracted a great deal of attention in the case of the medium-sized ports, because European status gives these ports stimuli for growth and investment incentives which are vital for the regions involved.
The accident off the Galapagos Islands is just the latest in a string of disasters with devastating effects on nature and on human populations.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur has said, this document examines two Commission proposals: the first concerns the establishment of the single committee, to be known as the Committee on Safe Seas, and the second concerns a directive which amends the existing directives in order to incorporate the committee.
The purpose of this - as Members have already pointed out - is to streamline the operation of bringing the Community legislation in force into line with the international provisions and conventions on maritime safety and the protection of the marine environment, and with technical progress.
This committee will certainly contribute to greater certainty and coherence in the incorporation of international law into Community legislation.
It is vital to guarantee that Parliament has the right to participate in the regulatory procedure.
In future we must ensure that procedures followed in the Member States specifically to implement international agreements on maritime safety and Community legislation can be made simpler.
We also congratulate the Commission on its proposal and we are genuinely pleased with the creation of this committee on maritime safety which is going to unify in a very significant way and coordinate the application of 12 directives and 3 regulations.
Our group will support you.
I believe the principle of caution and precaution must fundamentally prevail so that these directives, standards and international agreements are made more demanding, as this committee on maritime safety proposes.
We believe that the committee on maritime safety must not simply be a committee which does a reasonable job from an administrative point of view, but that it must incorporate the feelings of non-governmental organisations, of environmental protection organisations and of unions so that all these views may be represented.
Mr President, setting up a Committee on Safe Seas, ostensibly in the aim of improving the implementation of legislation governing maritime safety, environmental protection and shipboard living and working conditions, will reinforce the reactionary nature of European Union policy in the shipping sector.
Basically, they institutionalise the EU Member States' refusal to participate in initiatives to accept or apply amendments to international conventions or resolutions, their obligations as contracting parties to international law notwithstanding.
The main issue as regards the safety of ships in general and tankers in particular is the unaccountability of big shipping business and the policy which supports it at national, regional and international level.
Thank you very much, Mr Patakis.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this comprehensive report.
As a Member of the European Parliament representing the east coast of Ireland, I am particularly angered by the extent of shipments of nuclear waste within the Irish Sea.
Only recently, there were two shipments from the Netherlands to the Sellafield and Thorp nuclear reprocessing plants operated by British Nuclear Fuels in Cumbria, and I have been informed that another 17 such shipments are due to take place from the Netherlands in the coming years.
Moreover, the German Government has stated that it is ready to restart shipments of spent nuclear fuel to Cumbria and that it will continue such operations until 1 July 2005.
Even though there has been widespread falsification of documents by BNFL over the last two years involving nuclear shipments to Japan, such shipments are now due to recommence.
This is not withstanding the fact that BNFL has been fined USD 60 million over this incident alone.
The British Nuclear Fuel's vessel named Pacific Swan is rapidly becoming the pariah of South America because the captain intends to negotiate the treacherous waters of Cape Horn with 90 tonnes of waste vitrified in 192 glass blocks.
I believe that the countries of the OSPAR Convention must now form broader international links with other countries along the main shipping routes of nuclear waste, which includes countries around the Panama Canal, South America, and the coast of Africa.
I also wish to thank you for having taken an initially positive view of the need to create a thematic network with regard to short route navigation, which is a very important initiative on the part of AMRIE.
The new committee must monitor and, if necessary, improve the way legislation is implemented and take an active role, on the Union' s behalf, in the IMO and other international organisations.
As for your congratulations to the Commission for the work done so far in the maritime sector, I shall pass these on to the staff of the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport following the magnificent work they have carried out throughout this long year, in which they have undoubtedly made a very considerable effort to respond to our citizens' growing demands.
The Commission is going to incorporate all these amendments once it has adjusted their wording in accordance with the standardised formulations on comitology agreed between the institutions.
We also wish to thank Parliament for having reminded us that the single Committee whose creation we are proposing is going to deal not only with maritime safety but also with the prevention of pollution from ships, something which will, in fact, have to be reflected in the Committee' s name.
Despite the fact that we are prepared to incorporate the prevention of pollution from ships in the name, we are not, however, able to incorporate protection of the marine environment in a generic sense.
Amendments Nos 1, 3, 7 and 11 simply require a number of modifications.
The only ones we are unable to accept are Nos 5 and 12, and for the reasons I have just pointed out, namely that they refer to aspects of marine environmental protection not connected with maritime safety.
I believe in fact that, as one of the honourable Members pointed out in another speech, the incorporation of ports into the trans-European networks is a key factor in promoting what we are all aiming for, namely the incorporation or integration of all transport systems into the intermodal system.
Interoperability of the trans-European rail system The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0016/2001) by Mr Savary, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the common position of the Council with a view to the adoption of the European Parliament and Council directive on the interoperability of the trans-European conventional rail system [C5-0564/2000 - 1999/0252(COD)].
Tomorrow we will be voting on the Savary report at second reading on the interoperability of the trans-European conventional rail system.
The wording that has now been adopted for Article 18 and Annex VII to some extent takes account of our concerns, but we are not completely happy with this as things stand.
The Commission's undertaking to include proper independent approval and maintenance of rail systems in the railways package is sufficient for us to speed this otherwise excellent compromise on its way without tabling any further amendments in the plenary session.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would of course like to thank Mr Savary for his excellent report.
This is not just a half-hearted compromise, but a really good package.
The big problem is competition between road and rail.
However, all these issues are very important in the context of enlargement.
The development of rail transport is also a step towards more environmentally sustainable transport systems.
There is still much to be done but now the work is off to a good start.
The compromise achieved regarding the use of Russian railway carriages and wagons between Finland and Russia will not put the aims of the report in jeopardy, but will ensure that transport on the Union' s eastern border will continue undisturbed.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Savary, firstly we should do this without a debate, but it is good to have a debate so as to spend some time highlighting all that has gone well.
Within the railway sector, the EU' s 15 Member States have 4 different electrical systems and 15 different signalling systems.
Within 10 years, there may be 25 or 27 Member States.
The other realisation is that, in the short term at least, it is a question of finding solutions without having the same system in every country.
Any country situated at the end or at the beginning of a railway line is always dependent on other countries if it is to enjoy a high level of cross-border traffic.
Europe needs a long-term railways policy, built on a common objective.
The standardisation of technical features will result in improved competitiveness on the railways without there being any negative effects on the status of other forms of transport.
But the use of Russian carriages and wagons in rail services that ply between our two countries is due to the fact that when we send our own carriages and wagons across the border we are often looking at their tail lights for the last time.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all the important points have already been made, so I can only emphasise them once more, but I am glad to do so.
I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Savary, on his report and for succeeding in getting the directive on the interoperability of the trans-European conventional rail system through the various hoops of the parliamentary system.
The rapporteur and this House have secured the inclusion of social provisions as well as technical specifications in the directive, and also strategic consideration of the candidate countries when drafting the TSIs.
Specifically, the common position adopted by the Council on 10 November 2000 was received by the European Parliament at the end of November and the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism was able to debate a first draft report on 4 December 2000.
In the end, the whole of the railways package, which we approved in the course of 2000 and this year, the beginning of 2001, is decidedly French in nature, due to the important targets which have been adopted, no doubt with some Finnish touches, since the Finnish Presidency also played an important role.
This goes much further than opening up a sector or modifying some specific technical requirements.
In this respect, we are also providing something very important for the European technology sector: the European railways industry, which includes some of the world' s most technologically advanced industries, is being given the possibility of operating within a massive internal market of great dimensions which will lead to a lowering of costs and greater profits, which will therefore optimise all production and greater competitiveness at international and world level, beyond our European borders.
I would like to assure Mr Swoboda, as I have said repeatedly, that before the end of the year we hope to propose the pending measures, such as the directive on safety in rail transport, the issue of the opening up of goods transport to competition and the issue of passenger transport.
Of course, the whole issue of the enlargement of the European Union is a key factor for the rail sector, because rail transport is a key element in the development and the balanced growth of the new countries.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The PPE-DE rapporteur, Jim Nicholson, will report tonight on the Commission proposal for emergency measures to control cod fishing in the Irish Sea.
Although the price of cod and other fish will rise, at the same time fishermen will have problems making a living and providing for their families in the long term.
But at the same time I wish to stress that this is only one step in the right direction.
Mrs Langenhagen has painted a very bleak picture of the state of cod in the Irish Sea.
This regulation for 2001 is necessary, however painful, if there is to be a cod fisheries at all in the Irish Sea.
The cod stocks have declined so much that there has been a reduction of half in the total allowable catch and a new cod recovery programme introduced.
For example, in the Western Isles fishermen are concerned that because of the cod ban in the North Sea - and to some extent in the Irish Sea - cod stocks off the Butt of Lewis and south of Barra will be adversely effected.
Why is it then that, after so many years of a common fisheries policy whose principal intention is to conserve stocks, we have to resort to emergency measures in the Irish and North Sea cod areas?
Clearly a significant downturn in fishing activity can be expected in the next few years, and clearly with that significant downturn in activity will come a significant downturn in the income of many families and many communities in our fishing areas, both in the catching sector and in processing.
Just as the economic and social effects of the lack of a new agreement with Morocco have been felt in very particular areas, so the effects of these emergency measures in the long-term cod recovery plans will have an effect in very particular areas.
I have previously taken a stance by rejecting agreements which the European Union enters into with countries in the developing world in order to be able to go and fish the sea there until it, too, is exhausted.
The rapporteur recognises that the supply of cod in the fishing ports on the east coast of the Irish and North Sea has declined dramatically in the last ten years.
In spite of this, the rapporteur wants to extend the exclusion period in which the catch is less restricted, by six weeks between 22 February and 30 April and he criticises the large area of sea to be closed off to fishing during the spawning season.
Neither in the North Sea nor in the Irish Sea.
Unfortunately, Mr Nicholson is adopting the half-hearted stance of the Commission in his report.
My problems began this morning at a very early point when my flight from Belfast to London was cancelled.
Mr van Dam should go back and read my report because I neither criticised the Commission nor the fishermen.
To some extent the fishermen in my region faced this problem last year.
This is unfortunate because the cooperation that is being given by the fishermen to the Commission is a shining example to other parts of the European Union.
The common fisheries policy in its current form has been operating for 18 years.
Member States who attempt to observe these rules are punished while other Member States ignore the MAGPs entirely.
The cod recovery measures in the Irish Sea last year cost the Irish Sea fleet a devastating drop in income of 42% during the closed season.
Despite this appalling crisis, despite the fact that there are too many fishermen chasing too few fish around the North Sea and the Irish Sea, this House voted overwhelmingly at its last part-session in January to do away with 6 and 12-mile limits around our shores, to open equal access to the North Sea and to break into the Shetland and Irish boxes.
I believe that, in the same way that the reform of the common agricultural policy is only possible through a redefinition of the rural world, the reform of the CFP also has to be very ambitious and develop in parallel with the reform of the fishing world, of those regions which depend on fishing, which will surely have to face the future by bringing other approaches into play, which are different to those which they have been employing up till now and which depend exclusively on an extractive model.
The encyclopaedia came to the conclusion that mankind could never exterminate this species.
For that reason, at this point I only wish to comment on the report actually before us now.
That is why it is very important to close the spawning grounds in good time before the start of the spawning season, even if that is very painful, and even if that inevitably creates problems for fishermen.
You will be voting on the report tomorrow, and that just leaves enough time for us to make a decision in Council so that the regulation can come into force on 15 February.
The Commission is totally in agreement with the report before us and I would like to thank you once again for your support.
We are also aware that the second condition I mentioned involves a certain risk, but because of the observation system, if there should be a further closure next year we will be in a position to say whether or not this exception can also be made during the first part of next year's closure period.
The debate is closed.
