The legislation clearly distinguishes between risk assessment, which is carried out by EFSA, and risk management, which is carried out by the Commission.
The Commission's role is to take relevant risk management decisions, provided that, and only when, such a risk is identified by EFSA as the European Union's body responsible for risk assessment.
However, if there is no risk identified by the Authority, then there will be no sound scientific basis for the Commission to take a risk management decision.
EFSA first responded to the Commission request in March by discussing the issue at the plenary meeting of the GMO Panel, before issuing a statistical report and a scientific statement by the Panel on 20 June.
The conclusion of the Authority is that the paper does not present a sound scientific justification to question the safety of MON 863 maize and, therefore, it sees no reason to revise its previous opinions that MON 863 maize would not have an adverse effect in the context of the proposed use.
Parliament will be informed in more detail of the background I have outlined in the replies to the written questions on this subject by Ms Breyer, which are currently being finalised following the recent EFSA statement.
First, and most importantly, there is at this stage no scientific basis to question either the safety of MON 863 or its status as a legally commercialised product.
In April 2004, EFSA assessed MON 863 maize to be just as safe as conventional maize.
A second EFSA safety assessment in October 2004 came to the same conclusion.
MON 863 is safe and must be approved just like the other useful plants that have been tested and found to be safe.
We agree, Mr Kyprianou, that EFSA should continue to be responsible for risk assessment and the Commission for risk management.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I was instrumental in organising a conference that took place on 12 June at the European Parliament in Brussels.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kyprianou, I am most disappointed, because, like Mrs Scheele, I was expecting answers this evening about when we will finally have higher standards for risk assessment.
The French scientists' independent study is not the only one to come to the alarming conclusion that Monsanto 863 is unsafe and is an alarming threat to health and that it is irresponsible to leave it on the market any longer.
I would have liked to receive answers from you today about the fact that the European Medicines Agency also sees a risk with the two antibiotic resistance genes, not only in MON 863, but also in the Amflora potato, authorisation of which has now been applied for.
I would like you to tell me, Mr Kyprianou, in no uncertain terms: will MON 863 be reassessed?
Mr President, I know that the GMO authorisations are a sensitive issue but, first of all, we have to remind ourselves that, based on European legislation adopted by Parliament and the Council, GMO products are allowed in the European Union, provided they go through the authorisation procedure I have just described.
