The demographic future of Europe (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Castex, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the demographic future of Europe.
To regain confidence in the future, our citizens need their job security and dignified living conditions restored.
To achieve it we must implement a genuine human resources management policy and a real lifelong training policy.
I say lifelong with reason, for that also means for employees over 50 who, along with other types of discrimination, also have to face discrimination on training and on promotion at work.
It is because there is a legal retirement age that people can think of going beyond it, depending on the arrangements defined by each Member State in line with its traditions of dialogue and consultation.
Immigration is not a new phenomenon in the European Union and, with a positive balance of two million immigrants per year - a figure that has been stable for several years - legal immigration contributes to the composition of the active population of the European Union, just as it contributes to the composition of European society.
We need to maintain this flow of immigrants and guarantee a legal status in our Member States for those we welcome, in particular fighting illegal immigration and the exploitation of illegal workers.
The human dimension of immigration must govern our policies on the subject and family integration should not disappear from our guidelines.
That is the reason why this debate is as interesting as it is impassioned, and I would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for taking as much interest in this as I have.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the Members of the European Parliament and above all the rapporteur, Mrs Castex, for her informative report on the Commission communication on the demographic future of Europe.
This clearly gives the Member States a stronger political signal and indicates the importance of demographic issues in Europe today.
The European Parliament's analysis of the main demographic issues is to a great extent in line with the conclusions of the Commission's 2007 report.
Both agree that ageing and declining birth rates are the result of social and economic development.
Demographic changes present not only serious challenges but also new opportunities.
Family policy is the sole responsibility of individual Member States.
According to the Eurostat forecasts, the population in the 15 to 64 age bracket will be reduced by one million persons per year after 2010.
This trend is due to two factors.
It is this situation that brings about reduction of the share of people in the active age bracket and drop in labour productivity.
The demographic problem threatens the stability of the European economy, the European social model, as well as the solidarity between generations.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of the European Parliament lays the emphasis on the economic tools that give opportunities to improve the demographic situation in the European Union.
For policies of the Member States, what this means is sustainability in the social security system and, although this is an unpopular cost factor, it would put demographic change back on an even keel.
These are concrete solutions in which the European Commission can be active without always holding women responsible for demographic change.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. - (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
For decades, we have been learning that climate change and pollution of the environment threaten our future.
The Hampton Court summit drew our attention to another process that is becoming risky: Europe is growing old.
Based on the responsibility it feels in this area, the LIBE Committee made three recommendations to the rapporteur and the EMPLOI Committee on matters relating to civil rights.
I would like to thank them for studying our recommendations and taking them into account.
Equal opportunities for families with and without children are an extremely important Community interest.
Ultimately, discrimination against the elderly and older workers may prevent people who are not young from staying in the labour market.
Thank you, Mr President.
Secondly, both parents are equally responsible for bringing up their children.
It also talks about other things, of course, about the birth rate, about children and about skills training, but I want to highlight this, Mr President: why are we finally talking about the elderly?
Just look back 20 years, 10 years, 30 years, 50 years, nobody bothered to think that the elderly needed assistance, that the elderly needed support, that people with elderly parents needed more time off work than in the past.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, I want to begin by thanking the rapporteur who has done tremendously good groundwork but also has managed the negotiations between the different political groups excellently.
Not a threat, but a challenge for the European Union.
We must create conditions with various measures in relation to health and safety at work, the possibility of further training, and flexible solutions in the grey area between working life and retirement, in order to enable parents to remain in work.
We need people who come from other parts of the world in our society in order to develop and maintain our welfare society.
Member States must also work towards ensuring independence, free personal care, lifelong learning and freedom from discrimination at the workplace for all older people.
Unfortunately, I was unable to achieve consensus on this, and therefore it is not in the report, but I believe Member States must be encouraged to look at this for the future.
I have tabled a number of amendments on behalf of my group, which I hope other Members will see fit to support, but most of the issues covered by this report should remain within the competence of the Member States.
I support all the solutions proposed in the report, and I would place an emphasis on two.
Thus we must not compromise the advances attained through applying scientific progress in order to improve people's living conditions in terms of preventive medicine, better healthcare, nutrition and housing, reduced working hours, and support for mothers, fathers and children, which has resulted in constant and regular increases in life expectancy.
The rise in the retirement age is making it even more difficult for young people to find employment with rights, and universal access to public services and proper housing has also become more difficult.
That is why we need to replace the Lisbon Strategy with a European strategy for solidarity and sustainable development that opens new horizons for Europe, of decent jobs with rights, in particular for women and young people, reduced working hours with no reduction in pay, better salaries, an end to discrimination, particularly wage discrimination against women, greater economic and social cohesion, adequate protection, and public and universal social security, guaranteeing a better quality of life and greater social justice.
This in turn requires stable employment and working hours, and respect for the social role of mothers and fathers.
That is also why it is necessary to allocate greater budgetary resources to less developed countries and why all Member States urgently need to ratify and apply the UN Convention on family reunification for migrant workers.
In consumerism we are taught to be selfish.
Security is important in motherhood but financial security is not the whole story.
To rectify our demographic crisis we must restore the basic integrity of human relationships.
By 2030 we will be lacking more than 20 million people of employable age.
We need a more family-friendly environment in our Member States, more childcare choices, more workplace daycare centres, better opportunities for combining family and work, greater participation by women in the working world, more part-time work for parents and a secure return to work after child raising.
Lifelong learning programmes should benefit not only young people but also older people, who will want to work for much longer and who can manage a solid workload and are highly skilled and highly motivated.
I would also like to thank Mrs Castex for producing this report and for enabling us to go deeper in a discussion that is helping us a great deal.
The problem, as other Members have said, is that we need birth policies, demographic policies and we need children in Europe, that is what we need.
The ageing of Europe and the low birth rate in Europe would be even more serious without our social system.
Other societies such as, for example, China, where they are going to experience something very similar, are going to pay even more dearly than us for the lack of efficient, intelligent and rational social models.
Finally, there needs to be a major discussion about the role of women in our society, a discussion that needs to be conducted, as always, in the light of solidarity. (Applause) (ET) Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the average birth-rate in Europe today is 1.5, but this means that there is no population growth.
They are educated, they want to work and have careers; the income they receive from work provides a better standard of living for their families.
However, we must be able to influence the birth rate, and to establish a situation in which the number of children a family wants to have becomes a reality.
Our families need a sense of security that the birth of a child will not shatter a career, in other words there needs to be a better balance between work and family life, for both mothers and fathers.
Parents want to enjoy a sense of certainty that they can provide their children with a good education and with the skills to pursue their interests, with the material support of the State where necessary.
It is only a partial, short-term approach.
Time will not permit me to talk about all the factors but I should like to emphasise that the demographic situation depends greatly on a gamut of decisions and legal rules in fields ranging from labour and family law to environmental law and national security.
In conclusion I would like to thank Mrs Castex for her important report which contains a great deal of female empathy. (PL) Mr President, the draft resolution once more draws attention to the demographic threat facing Europe.
Responsibility for the future of our continent, and for its social and economic development, demands that special attention be given to this issue.
A birth rate of about 1.5 on average is too low.
Promotion of model families with a small number of children or none, conditions of family life that do not guarantee a decent and stable economic situation (as a result of the impact of unemployment and lowered employment standards, particularly as regards the duration of employment) and punishment of women for motherhood through pension systems have undoubtedly contributed to the threats that have arisen.
I am particularly concerned about potential polygamy and the legal and economic consequences arising therefrom in the case of social services being made available to these families.
I would also like... (The President cut off the speaker.) Mr President, the word 'integration' has been used 24 times in this report.
Militant secularists of socialist origin avoid this subject, although the Muslim population is shooting up.
By 2025, one in three people living in Western Europe may, or will, be Muslim.
I believe that Europe can do that and Europeans should recommit themselves to Christian culture and the traditions and values of liberty, equality, law and individual rights that, for over 20 centuries, have been embraced by Europeans of all nations and that have been the source of prosperity and moral leadership in the world.
This report can integrate nobody and nothing.
Thus the European Union is facing an unprecedented problem, since in the future European cities will have a very high proportion of old people and society will therefore be very different from what we have today.
The additional measures listed in the report are necessary in order to turn a demographic development into a 'win-win' situation.
My thanks to the rapporteur once again. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, as Mr Ettl said, we are facing a great challenge.
However, this is not just an economic challenge, it is also a human one because, in these neighbourhoods, when you see people who are isolated, when the whole neighbourhood is ageing, when you cannot hear the happy shouts of children playing in the street any more, that is a human relations problem.
Commissioner, going beyond the report by my fellow Member, Mrs Castex, which I will be delighted to vote for tomorrow, I would ask you, in my capacity as chairman of the Urban Housing Intergroup, to put forward a proposal on towns for us, so a chart can be set up in the near future for each town that enables us better to understand and control the demographic situation in our towns in the medium and long term, so decisions can be taken on housing, transport, schools, etc. (PL) Mr President, the report under discussion is proof of the EU's powerlessness even to evaluate the situation.
That is why we have a crisis: children cannot have offspring, and neither can old people, but without offspring there is no future. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
It does not help to implement the Lisbon Strategy, and it does not help to solve demographic problems either.
Although the solutions are not always as simple as the questions, I would like to emphasize the importance of item 10 in the report, which requests the Member States to adopt measures in order to create quality and affordable child care services, in compliance with the Barcelona objectives, so that, by 2010, the Member States should create services that will allow taking care of at least 90% of the children aged between 3 and the school-age and at least 33% of the children younger than 3 years of age.
I would like to mention just two areas covered in this report: the situation of carers, in particular family carers, and the issue of pensions.
The report also highlights the massive disparity in average occupational pension between men and women.
In order to ensure this does not happen, Member States must take action to deal with the issue of pensions for carers.
It would be totally unacceptable if those who carry the burden of caring were to be denied an adequate pension. (PL) Mr President, when I was at primary school, 100 million Europeans were aged 14 or under, like me.
When I am an ancient 87-year-old, there will be just 66 million children of that age in Europe.
At present, one in four European citizens is over 65, and in 40 years' time one in two Europeans will be in that pensionable age group.
The demographic imbalance could then affect the financing of social welfare and pension systems.
As a father and as a doctor of medicine I welcome those sections of the report that talk about protecting motherhood and providing socio-economic support for families and activities that will enable men and women to better reconcile their family and working lives.
When applying the so-called Blue Card system, Europe should choose, as part of the immigration process, only people who are qualified and who can work in those professions in which our market is lacking manpower.
The report by Mrs Castex, for which I congratulate her, falls within a broader perspective - that of the demographic future of Europe.
The challenges of solidarity are not just between generations, but also between regions, and cover the integration of migrants, human resource policies and, of course, the challenge of demographic renewal.
It is also important, however, to take into account that some of the objectives aptly laid down in Barcelona in this and other fields, have not yet been achieved in various countries; I would stress greater participation by women in working life and support for employment for the over 55s.
From the tax point of view, too, it is important for Member States to reflect upon the possibility of promoting effective measures to boost the birth rate, in order to reduce the financial constraints on choosing to have more children.
We are threatened by a diminution in the working-age population, a fall in economic competitiveness and a decrease in funding for social care and keeping pension systems in equilibrium.
The great expansion of the European Union and the migration of people from the new Member States to the old Member States in search of earnings have relieved this problem in Western Europe, but have not solved it.
Europe's ageing process continues and decisive action is needed in the following areas, among others: protection of human rights and employment rights, promotion of a pro-family policy, medical care and social aid, and improvements in human resources management, and immigrants must be included in this.
A falling birth rate, gradual ageing and dying out of population are the most serious problems today.
Add to this enormous devaluation of the value of a child: for example, what percentage of the cost of one or two cars can an entrepreneur write off as tax annually and how much of the cost of a child can a parent write off?
The State is the main, decisive body involved in judging and redistributing, and in pursuing intergenerational solidarity through tax and social legislation.
Only by eliminating them can we again make Europe the continent of the future and hope, because a continent without children is a continent without a future. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Castex for her excellent work.
Demographic change is a great challenge for Europe.
It is therefore necessary to take measures such as the ones recently adopted in Portugal with an investment of more than EUR 100 million to provide crèches and nursery schools throughout the country, going beyond the goals of the Lisbon Strategy.
The granting of a pre-natal allowance to the most needy pregnant women, family allowances for immigrants' children, extension of maternity leave, a 20% increase in family allowance for one-parent families, tax benefits for businesses which install or subsidise crèches for their employees, the setting up of a maternity benefit, public support for medically assisted procreation - are good examples for other countries to follow. (EL) Commissioner, no doubt everything my fellow Members are repeating to you will induce you to include the demographic problem among the most fundamental issues in the new social agenda - and we expect to receive it as your proposal for 2008.
The film that won the 2007 Cannes Palme d'Or Award, directed by a Romanian, Cristian Mungiu, offered a real image of this veritable national trauma Romanian dealt with, a situation that seems difficult to understand, I know, in a normal world.
For more than one and a half decades, the demographic increase was negative and we timidly witness a slow change of this situation.
Several countries complain about the fact that they have a labour force deficit on the one hand and, on the other hand, people around 50 years of age retire or can no longer find a job.
This is a stable trend that will have its impact on all aspects of the economic and social development of European citizens in future.
Once again I am going to quote the example of Bulgaria, where the ratio between pensioners and people at work is already 1 to 1.2.
The employment rate has to increase, but social services should not be financed.
This new demographic policy must be built on two bases: the family, as the most important basic unit of society, and healthy people.
The number of people in the productive age group will start to fall within no more than three or four years.
Most women wish both to become mothers and to have a professional career.
Secondly, we must reform the social welfare systems designed to care for older people and for people who have reached pension age.
In order to achieve a long-term improvement, we need reforms of pension systems and medical care systems, and investment in good health.
Therefore, today's debate is not only welcomed, but also necessary for ensuring a good future and sustainable development.
In the context of the population aging trend, the European Union should first of all pay particular attention to children and young people.
The achievement of these objectives unquestionably depends on the level of education and lifelong training of all the generations.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize the need to mobilize public policies at all the necessary levels in order to successfully implement the mentioned objectives.
I would like to point out that both our success and our failure in implementing it will be of huge importance for the future of the European Union.
There is mass emigration from the new accession countries, especially the Baltic countries, Poland, Bulgaria and Romania, to the richer Member States.
Mr President, can I suggest that this is a very depressing debate, although it is based on a very factual and thorough report, for which I congratulate the rapporteur.
Certainly if we do nothing, the forebodings contained in the report may yet come to pass, although some Member States are reacting and putting in place measures to support men, women and children and that is positive.
Our peak population age group is now about 10 to 15 years younger than in the EU-25 in general.
But by 2050 our population structure will be quite similar to the rest of Europe, with the old-age dependency ratio projected to rise to 45% in 2050, compared to an EU average at that point of 53%.
It would be very difficult to try to respond to all the issues raised, so allow me just to state briefly that the European Commission's fundamental principle, which is reflected in all our documents, is based on equal opportunities; in none of our documents would you find the idea that demographic development is a problem for one gender only.
It is quite clear that it is an issue of equal opportunities and equal rights for men and women.
I would like to point out, for my fellow Members who made the criticism that men had been forgotten, that I devoted a paragraph in my report to the issue of promoting paternity law and developing the involvement of fathers in family life.
From this point of view, the calls for better management of human resources, for investment in lifelong education and training are extremely important, and they must be heeded not only by the public authorities in these particular cases, but by all the social partners, particularly companies, because they have a major responsibility in this area.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) The ageing of the population brings with it some significant economic, financial and social challenges.
in writing. - (RO) The demographic strategy of the European Union refers to many aspects of a social and economic nature.
The European Commission and the Member States should increase the number of legislative initiatives and pilot-programmes in order to facilitate the employment of young people.
Secondly, especially in the new Member States, we are dealing with the problem of the regions collectively left by young people.
in writing. - Europe is not ready for the challenges posed by our demography.
I would like to point out that in the 21st century the low birth rates present less of an economical danger than they did 60 years ago.
If we want to preserve Europe as we know it, we must protect our cultures also by protecting our families.
