Outcome of the referendum in Ireland (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the outcome of the referendum in Ireland.
President Barroso, it is great that you, too, are with us at such an important moment for our European Union.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I am very grateful to be here today and to have the opportunity to address the European Parliament so soon after the positive result in the referendum in Ireland.
I think we should also say that it was very positive to have the very strong majority that was shown in the referendum, a convincing majority of 67.1% and with a high turnout, as high as 59%.
It will, in fact, increase the influence of the EU in the international arena and make us stronger in meeting global challenges, and I know that you in this Parliament will also be given a more significant role in the overall decision-making process.
The European Council is united in its wish for the Treaty to enter into force by the end of this year and the end of the Swedish Presidency.
I spoke on Saturday, after the referendum result from Ireland was known, with the Taoiseach Brian Cowen, who said they would need a couple of weeks to secure full parliamentary ratification, and therefore we can also say that country number 26 will finally be Ireland.
Preparing this will not only be a matter for the Presidency: this is a matter for three institutions at the same time.
Let us also remember that despite these institutional matters, this Swedish Presidency - and this autumn - is, of course, very much influenced by the need to move on climate change, the need to move on the financial crisis, the worry in Europe that we need a policy for job creation - a lot of important matters that need to be addressed.
Prime Minister, thank you for your very clear message regarding all that is going on after the vote in Ireland, and also for the very clear message on cooperation between the European Parliament and the Presidency of the European Council.
I am pleased to see that President Kaczyński of Poland will be signing very soon.
Of course, we have to see the completion of the process in the Czech Republic.
I am ready to start the formation of the next Commission as soon as the Council is ready to clarify the legal basis definitively, and also to nominate the High Representative who will become Vice-President of the Commission.
I appreciate all the efforts made by the Swedish Presidency, and personally by Prime Minister Reinfeldt, to reach a swift conclusion to all these processes.
The initiative that Prime Minister Reinfeldt took today at a meeting with me and with you, President Buzek, and the video conference with Prime Minister Fischer, was a very good and useful initiative.
Parliament and Commission have worked hand in hand to explain why it is the right treaty for Europe.
This work will now accelerate and, in the same spirit as the remarks made just now by the Swedish Presidency, I want to state the European Commission's determination to work with Parliament to achieve that objective.
I know that Elmar Brok has been leading on this subject here in Parliament.
It is an important aspect of how the European Union does its business.
The Treaty of Lisbon introduces new rules making the system more rational and transparent.
But let me be clear: many of these decisions are of great political importance and deserve proper democratic scrutiny and real political ownership.
So we need to maintain the strong role played by Parliament today.
President Barroso, thank you for your speech, and for your readiness to cooperate in the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty.
The cooperation between Parliament and the Council during the videoconference with Prime Minister Jan Fischer of the Czech Republic was also excellent, so thank you once again, Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt, for organising that video conference.
They expressed their deep attachment to a Europe that influences globalisation without suffering it, a Europe that shares with its partners its choice of society and its choice of a social market economy.
On behalf of the PPE, I am delighted at this vote, which shows that, when a nation is consulted on what really matters, such as the principle of belonging to the European Union, it replies to the question put to it and does so with conviction.
The Irish vote encourages us in our European action and, at the same time, it links us.
It encourages us, because this is the first time in a long time that a European nation has expressed with such force its will to participate in the European adventure despite - or rather because of - the crisis.
It will allow it to be more identifiable by creating a standing Presidency of the Council to replace the current revolving Presidency and will give greater weight to our High Representative for foreign policy.
Europe needs one face, both for our fellow citizens and for our international partners.
I therefore call on the presidents of these two countries to proceed without delay with formal signature of the Treaty, so that the 27 can move forward and implement it by no later than the start of 2010.
May I say in particular to President Klaus that the 67% Irish vote should encourage him to sign the treaty when the time comes.
The time has come for Europe to set institutional questions aside and dedicate itself to what really matters to the 500 million Europeans: the social market economy, energy, the climate and security.
My thanks to Mr Reinfeldt and Mr Barroso for their proposals.
Mr President, we are discussing the result of this referendum.
A great deal has been said about the institutional aspects and I have nothing to add to what Prime Minister Reinfeldt said.
Like the rest of us, Mr Barroso, you were very pleased.
Your joy must have been a little dampened on Sunday evening, as the 382 votes that you received included 55 votes from members of a group whose objective it is to prevent the Treaty of Lisbon entering into force.
It is not about how majorities in this Parliament are made up, but about something much more fundamental and that is what we need to say to the President of the Czech Republic.
The 27 Member States of the European Union have a total of 500 million inhabitants.
A country with a population of 10 million - let us take your country for example, Mr Barroso - compared with Brazil, Portugal no longer has the position it had in the 19th century.
Like all European states, Portugal needs the Union so that we can be strong together.
That is why the question that we must put to President Klaus is this: in weighing up the responsibility that he is taking on, is it possible for an individual - who admittedly is making use of his constitutional right, that I cannot argue with - to be able to shoulder this responsibility alone when all of the other governments and parliaments, and now also 67% of the people of Ireland who have said 'yes', are of a different opinion?
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, last Friday was a really historic step: 67% of the votes.
We have to thank Brian Cowen.
I also especially thank Pat Cox, who did a great job, and all pro-Lisbon Irish MEPs because they conducted a tremendous campaign in favour of the Treaty.
With this Irish 'yes', all the citizens of Europe, directly or indirectly, by a referendum or by their parliaments, have said 'yes' to the Lisbon Treaty.
With this Irish 'yes', we know that the Lisbon Treaty will be brought into effect; we know that, because it was the last hurdle.
We know that we have to wait until the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic has spoken.
We can accept that the Commission will be dealing with current affairs because after 31 October, it should be dealing with current affairs.
So the same argument applies now to the nomination of the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have to learn a clear lesson from what happened in Ireland.
The Irish, as Guy Verhofstadt said, returned a 67% vote, which is a large majority, because reality caused them to see clearly.
If it is a game, a whim, you can say no, but it is business as usual.
A democratic space cannot live with blackmail and if we do not manage to resolve this problem, I think that the European democratic space will not work.
Mr Schulz, you should not always point the finger at others.
We need to put everything on the table and then you decide.
Mr Verhofstadt made a good proposal: if the Czechs do not state their position, then the Czechs will have no commissioner, because under the Treaty of Nice, the number of commissioners will have to be reduced.
If the promised referendum looks unwinnable it is cancelled without apparent shame or embarrassment.
In the UK, all political parties, including a government in office, pledged the British people that they would be consulted on the future of Europe.
The Lisbon Treaty has therefore been a missed opportunity.
The UK Conservatives have been consistent.
We believe that the Treaty as it has turned out will not take things forward in the interests of the people.
We should all reflect on that.
The Treaty of Lisbon will continue this market economy policy with free competition.
So, the referendum in Ireland has taken place and, even if it did not turn out exactly as we would have wanted, we on the Left will continue to work to achieve more direct democracy in Europe.
The Referendum Commission in Ireland did not do its job, did not tell the Irish people that of course, the Lisbon constitutional treaty has profound impacts on their own constitution; and, perhaps worst of all, the Broadcasting Commission in Ireland changed the rules, so there was not equal coverage for the 'yes' and the 'no' sides.
I do not think that President Klaus will be able to hold out, I hope that he does; he is a fine and brave man.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the group leaders for their comments.
If a new Treaty is to come into force, it is very clear that it has to be ratified by the 27 Member States.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, I will just make some comments on the comments made by the group leaders, and I thank all of them for their contributions.
The majority of Members of this Parliament want it, all the governments want it, and the Commission certainly wants it.
The point is, as the Prime Minister has just pointed out, that the Treaty will not be approved before the end of the mandate of this Commission.
For instance, the High Representative will be Vice-President of the Commission, and so you will vote on the High Representative.
We have, in the past, namely in the first Commission that I took part in, also started with a prolongation of the previous Commission for three weeks.
It is important to underline that point because sometimes, I think there are ideas about certain dérives institutionnelles, and I will not accept, and the European Commission will not accept, the idea that the President of the European Council is the President of Europe, because it is not in the Treaties. (Applause) It is not in the Treaties and we will have to respect the Treaties.
The Lisbon Treaty process in Ireland demonstrates that when we make the effort to bring people with us, they are prepared to respond to leadership.
The Irish Parliament, through a special committee, identified the concerns of the people following the first referendum and the government got guarantees on these matters from our partners and, crucially, the change in relation to the future composition of the Commission.
The reason the Irish Parliament had a right and a duty to do what they did is that the sovereign people of Ireland gave them that right and duty.
Mr President, I support what you said about concerns among some of our peoples.
The world needs a more effective Union to ensure that we can vigorously pursue the objectives of sustainable development - economically, environmentally and socially.
The Irish people overwhelmingly said that Ireland's place lies at the heart of the European Union. (GA) The political parties that were in favour of the treaty worked together this time round to a greater extent than during the last referendum.
Civic groups such as Ireland for Europe and We Belong played a central role in showing the public that it was not just the political system that wanted the people of Ireland to vote yes in the referendum.
At last, there is a chance to work together in our foreign policy to achieve greater conflict prevention, greater protection of human rights and more democracy in all parts of the world, in other words, to have a stronger sense of the global responsibility that the European Union has.
However, for this to actually enter into force - and some people have already said this - we need the support of all of the European Heads of State or Government in order to persuade President Klaus, too, to sign the treaty.
That demonstrates a lack of responsibility with regard to European policy.
We need everyone who is in favour of this common Europe to make it clear that President Klaus, too, must sign the treaty and that we do not need anything to undermine the process leading to the realisation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
So let us have no 'Spompanadln' as we say in Austrian, in other words, let us not rashly pick up on something simply because it might be popular with the people.
I consider that to be very irresponsible in terms of European policy and I hope that the Austrian Head of Government will retract his statement in this regard. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, it is not my intention to meddle in the internal affairs of Ireland and I acknowledge the right of Irish politicians to allow as many votes on this treaty as they see fit and, of course, I also respect the result of this referendum, just as I respected the result of last year's referendum, which produced an opposite result.
I do not know which result has greater value or greater validity, and perhaps my Irish colleagues could advise me on this, but nonetheless, one thing that I can weigh up is how it looks from the outside and how the whole atmosphere surrounding ratification of the Lisbon Treaty looks from the outside and unfortunately, I have to say that the image is appalling.
It will be the European Parliament, so I am not surprised that many in this chamber back the treaty.
The European Commission decided to spend a large amount of resources on a propaganda campaign about the advantages of the European Union directly before the referendum.
Every person in this room must now face the clear, tough challenge ahead, that is, to recognise that many of the concerns that came to light during the referendum campaign still need to be dealt with.
In all honesty, though, it is very difficult to see any respect for the 'no' side.
The Parliament of the Irish Republic made a decision to hold a referendum; that referendum has been held.
The wording is very strict, and it is very important that this rule is respected. (DA) Mr President, democracy, for me, means posing a question and then getting an answer.
The governments and the institutions of the EU succeeded in preventing the holding of referendums in the other 26 Member States.
With their very strong vote, the people of Ireland are giving us the spirit and the strength to continue to prosper and to build a strong and, above all, federal Europe.
The majority in 27 nations and in the European Parliament has repeatedly said 'yes' to the further development of the European Union.
This 'yes' of the democratic majority was the 'yes' of common sense, a 'yes' to a more democratic, more transparent European Union that is closer to its citizens, the 'yes' of positive pro-European thinkers and actors, a 'yes' to the strengthening of the European Union's position in the world and an important step in the right direction.
We need to continue to further democracy, for example, by allowing the possibility of a European referendum, a uniform European right to vote and many other things.
Thank you for answering the question, but, colleagues, I will read you the Rule because we must know about it. 'The President may give the floor to Members who indicate, by raising a blue card, their wish to put to another Member, during that Member's speech' - not later - 'a question of no longer than half a minute's duration' - a question only - 'where the speaker agrees and where the President is satisfied that this will not lead to a disruption of the debate.' If blue cards are raised too often, then I will not give you the floor because it will lead to disruption of our debate.
Let us remember how the European Union tried to boycott Austria when Jörg Haider came into power.
They have the sovereign right to decide on these matters.
Even though Mr Swoboda said that we should not have any institutional debates, we need to have a serious debate on the European External Action Service.
This Parliament - and I would make this clear to the Commission, but also to the Council - wants a strong High Representative and an efficient European External Action Service.
We have been prudent because, in March of this year, the European Parliament asked all the Member States to anticipate this result by stating, as the method of appointment, that the elections on 7 June would be the democratic basis for sending these additional eighteen MEPs.
The second thing that really shocks me is that everyone is talking about the grand ambitions of the Treaty of Lisbon, but it imposes an obligation on us in connection with one very simple thing: equality between men and women.
I am counting on you to ensure that equality between men and women is respected at this level also. (NL) Mr President, as Dutch football legend Johan Cruyff once said, all advantages have their disadvantages.
The advantage of the Treaty of Lisbon is that it gives Member States rather more say and national parliaments more influence.
The disadvantage is that it shifts the centre of power further towards Europe.
After all, over the last 30 years, we have seen power in Europe increasing in inverse proportion to the turnout of our citizens in the European Parliament elections.
The transfer of more power to Brussels has gone hand in hand with a lower turnout in the European elections.
What happened in Ireland in the referendum was not a victory for democracy.
The Irish Government's duplicity was shown by the fact that it asked the management of Aer Lingus to postpone until today, after the referendum, the announcement of 700 savage job cuts in Aer Lingus.
The EU Commission intervened continually: interfered in the process.
The three Presidents are not here, but I want their representatives to ask them for a reaction to the following scandal.
Now I am flabbergasted that only one end result is allowed in the European Union.
Thank you very much. (RO) We are delighted that the referendum held in Ireland has confirmed a resounding victory for the supporters of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This vote represents the decision of Ireland's citizens to continue the process of developing the European Union.
This voice will be speaking on behalf of the 27 or more Member States.
I hope that the president will take into account the wishes of the citizens of all 27 Member States, including the Czech Republic, and sign the ratification of the Treaty.
Parliament needs to make the relevant preparations to be able to fulfil these responsibilities as quickly as possible, without causing any delay in the legislative process.
Secondly, what the Rules of Procedure say is that the blue card should be raised during the speech of the Member to whom the question is to be put, and not afterwards. (ES) Mr President, first of all I would like to say that I am alarmed by this debate, because what ought to be a day of celebration for Europe is turning into a debate in which we have come to the point of questioning the way that the President of Parliament welcomed the results.
I believe that the time has come to say in this House that here, where the sovereignty of European citizens has its home, nine out of ten citizens represented here are in favour of Europe, and that the underlying beliefs of the major democratic parties of Europe are in favour of Europe.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to point out that the Treaty of Lisbon is a prerequisite for making more Europe, for making Europe more united and stronger, but that unfortunately, it is not sufficient in itself.
Just a few days ago, I had the opportunity to speak with people who were in Pittsburgh, and their perspective was that the world is not looking at Europe, but at Asia.
Mr President, frankly we should thank Mr Farage for his contribution to the Irish campaign.
The fact is that the Conservative Party stands all on its own as a prospective party of government that is still opposing this great qualitative step forward in European integration.
Consider the absurdity of the Eurosceptics, because opposing Lisbon means sticking with the current Treaty of Nice and the present rather clumsy and opaque - and too often ineffective - Union that fails to respond to public demand and to global challenges.
Britain deserves much better than the Conservative Party, and Europe certainly needs more. (DE) Mr President, like many who have already spoken today, I am pleased about the Irish 'yes' vote and I would like to congratulate all those who fought for this, particularly the Irish Greens in the Comhaontas Glas.
To this I would add that we should also listen to the voices that are barely audible, the ones who, during the European elections in June, thought it unnecessary to take part in the election and play their part in supporting this process.
However, there is something that is even more important and that is that it would be a serious mistake to decide on Tony Blair, or any other possible candidate for the office of President of the Council, behind closed doors.
It saddened me because I believe that the EU has been a force for good in the world.
My concern is that the current march towards political union without the support of the peoples of Europe threatens to undermine the good work that the EU has done.
I respect the fact that the Irish people have now voted in favour of the Lisbon Treaty, though I think it disgraceful that they were pressurised into holding a second vote by countries which had not even held one referendum.
His legacy to Britain will be not only to leave us bankrupt but also to deny the British people a vote on this latest transfer of power from Westminster to Brussels.
Notwithstanding that the ratification process for the Lisbon Treaty has yet to be completed, I would like to suggest that we put our satisfaction and joy on hold until the citizens of Europe have confirmed, for example, in future elections to the European Parliament, that the Lisbon Treaty was first and foremost to their benefit, that it has improved social conditions, reduced dangerous armed conflicts and made a major contribution to a modern democratic Europe.
The will of the people expressed through a referendum is direct and unequivocal.
I welcomed this morning's speech by the President of Parliament when he said that we should also listen to the reasons of those who voted 'no' and, above all, ask ourselves why a large number did not even vote.
I think that this is an intelligent and perceptive consideration since European democracy is not built on decisions made on high, but on political awareness and the growth of political awareness among the peoples of Europe.
However, when we now hear these supporters say that the majority has given its opinion in a democratic way and the minority will simply have to accept that, they are indeed right, but I would have expected to hear that statement after the first referendum in Ireland, too.
One thing is clear, however: this Europe will only be a good Europe if it is a democratic one.
I hope therefore that we will not now attempt to put pressure on the Czech President in order to finish the job as quickly as possible. (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President of the Commission, I am very sorry that those who, during the first referendum, spread lies during the Irish campaign now have to admit that the parliaments of 26 countries have ratified the treaty, that Ireland has ratified the treaty in a referendum and that so far, all decisions by the constitutional courts regarding the Treaty of Lisbon have been positive.
Finally, I would like to say that I am convinced that the ratification process will continue, as all parliaments have ratified it.
I cannot believe that the Czech President would rather adhere to the letter-borne requests of the opposition leader of a country that has already ratified the treaty than the views of his own parliament and his own constitutional court.
One last thing: Mrs Malmström, I would ask you to take seriously the views that we expressed yesterday in the committees regarding the European External Action Service.
The Czechs have also said 'yes' to the Lisbon Treaty.
The Czech public endorse the Lisbon Treaty, just as a clear majority of them endorsed accession to the European Union in the referendum of 2003.
The Czech Republic is a parliamentary democracy.
As many have said, we will now have a more democratic and open EU.
I think there were several points that were in the EU's favour this time.
The doubts surrounding the treaty have been eliminated, but I also believe that there was an old, historical argument involved here.
We now know that this is a very sensitive issue in the United Kingdom.
If there is a change of government in London next spring - and there is a good chance that there will be - and if the Czech process takes longer or if they want a referendum, there is a risk that the EU will face renewed problems with regard to the ratification of this treaty.
We need a strong... (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) Mr President, the double referendum in Ireland on the Lisbon Treaty has created a dangerous precedent.
Indeed, such is his and our party's respect for democracy that we would like to see referenda in the 26 countries that have so far been denied them.
Another speaker said that it was not the first 'yes' vote that there had been and that there had been 'yes' votes in Luxembourg and Spain, but surely those referenda were on the Constitution and not the Lisbon Treaty?
Irrespective of whether this Constitution Reform Treaty of Lisbon enters into force or not, we need a new basic treaty.
This way, we can still escape the Europe trap, and this is something that we should put all our efforts into doing. (IT) Mr President, there is no doubt about it: the victory of the 'yes' vote in Ireland's referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon is an extremely positive step for the revitalisation of the European Union and for the crucial political and institutional reforms provided for by the Treaty.
I hope that President Klaus and President Kaczyński can be convinced of this too, as it is to be hoped that Ireland's ratification via the referendum will contribute towards the efforts to enable the Treaty to come into force on 1 January 2010.
Now the time has come to remove the two greatest hindrances in Europe, which the Irish have in fact already discredited.
Our objective should be, in addition, to prove to all those who were against the Lisbon Treaty that we can also work for them, and that their 'No' was and is to us a greater motivation to work.
I expect us to communicate more quickly with the European Commission and the European Council on procedural and personal matters, and also on substantive matters.
I myself, however, am especially pleased that the Irish referendum caused the European Union and its future to make the headlines once again.
A genuine debate is needed, because attempts at a real vision of the EU's future have been fairly pathetic in recent years.
To resolve this problem I, for my part, hope that the debate on the future of the EU will not just stop here, but that it will continue to be transparent with the Reform Treaty.
I am also pleased that the Treaty of Lisbon will help boost cooperation between national parliaments and Brussels.
I just hope that the high percentage that voted 'yes' in the Republic of Ireland do not live to regret it in the longer term.
The victory of the 'yes' camp was a stolen victory, as the original referendum was conducted in a perfectly legal manner and in accordance with the rules.
EU democracy is a one-way street.
The economic crisis was used as a lever to force people to vote 'yes'.
Mr President, I do not understand, and it is a source of regret for me, how some fellow Members who have freely entered this Parliament can have more confidence in the Council of Ministers than in the European Parliament.
Why do they believe that their interests are better defended by the Council of Ministers than by this Parliament, where they are present and where they can vote?
In that case, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to be in favour of the Treaty of Lisbon, because the Treaty of Lisbon establishes, for the first time, an exit clause.
Now, in truth, it is necessary to have the courage and the ambition to say to their people that it is necessary to leave the European Union.
Mr President, I therefore believe that the time has come to join forces, for us to realise that the world is not waiting for us, the Europeans, and that either we Europeans must unite and maintain constructive positions regarding the problems that our citizens are experiencing at the moment, or else Europe, as a power, will disappear from the map.
In Britain we have the UKIP and the Tories who, as you will all know, have been arguing for a 'no' vote in the Irish referendum.
I think he did a fantastic job because I understand that his interference actually helped the 'yes' campaign.
He keeps promising that if he wins a general election he is going to have a referendum if the Treaty has not been ratified by 27 Member States.
And just when the major issues of the day need more cooperation, not less, issues such as climate change, how we tackle the financial crisis and how we deal with rising unemployment, just then the Tories have decided that Britain is going to be isolated and at the margins of the EU.
The people of Ireland have clearly voted for a more democratic, effective and dynamic EU and the EU is now a better place to deal with the real challenges of today.
Ireland has guaranteed itself and all Member States its own, national Commissioner.
The result of the second referendum in the Irish Republic on the Lisbon Treaty changes nothing for the United Kingdom.
A document harmful to British national interests on 2 October 2009 is equally as harmful on 2 October 2010.
Ratification in Poland will not change that; ratification in the Czech Republic will not change that; the date of the UK general election will not change that; and therefore I want to use this opportunity in this House to call for the British people to be given a referendum, just as each and every European nation should be, on the full and complete text of the Lisbon Treaty. (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to express our delight at the result of the referendum in Ireland, not just on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), as has already been done by many Members, but particularly on behalf of the Portuguese Members of the PPE Group.
I believe that this clearly strengthens the development and growth prospects of the European Union, and that it sets the stage for a new phase.
We would like, of course, to congratulate all those who contributed to the Treaty of Lisbon, in particular, the Commission and the Commissioner here today and also, of course, the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, which played a very important role in this.
I believe that the Treaty of Lisbon is a decisive step towards involving national parliaments in European democracy.
I therefore believe that this aspect, which is the most important aspect of democracy, namely representation and not, as we have sometimes heard in this House, referenda, is what is vital and essential in democracy, which is to say, representation and not direct voting.
The Treaty of Lisbon is also a major step towards increasing the involvement of national representative democracies in the European process.
However, now, if this is to be a democratic debate and if Europe is to manage to provide replies, we quickly need to designate a Commission and to ensure that the Czechs ratify as quickly as possible so that Europe can get back on the road to growth and hope. (MT) I too, welcome the result of the Irish referendum with pleasure.
The Charter of Human Rights is one in which we should take pride, not merely as citizens of our individual countries, but as citizens of the European Union.
Our Irish fellow citizens also realised that the European train does not wait indefinitely for those who miss their appointment with history.
The Czech people signalled in an appropriate way its support for a more political and social, more efficient and more democratic Europe.
It is therefore not for us to show respect for the Czech people, but for the President of the Czech Republic to show respect for his people and its Parliament.
We should acknowledge that the Lisbon Treaty was duly ratified by all Member States and start the establishment of the institutions on that basis.
Parliament should be fully involved in this process. (IT) Mr President, I was also told I had three minutes, but I will try to stay within two minutes.
I think that it is now time to put into effect, to implement the Treaty of Lisbon as soon as the ratifications take place, something which we hope will happen imminently.
These fears were allayed through declarations adopted by the European Councils of December 2008 and June 2009.
I think this is important not just for Ireland, but for the whole of Europe.
This clarification does not apply solely to Ireland, but to all the Member States.
However, Ireland's attention to detail had the merit of formally clarifying this point which, as I was saying, now applies to the entire European Union.
I therefore think it proper that we show Ireland both our satisfaction and our gratitude for everything that it offers Europe in terms of its history and its ideals.
Europe needed Ireland, not only for technical reasons relating to its mechanisms and organisational structure, but also for Ireland's contribution to what we are all seeking: the essence of Europe. (PT) The 'yes' vote in Ireland is good news for Europe and for me personally, as a Portuguese citizen and a committed pro-European.
The Treaty of Lisbon marks the beginning of a new era.
Of course, I welcome the outcome of the referendum in Ireland along with my Fine Gael colleagues here in Parliament.
I worked very hard to achieve that 'yes' and I would say that the Irish people rose above national problems and other domestic issues and looked at the European question and the Lisbon Treaty and at the past and our associations with the European Union and overwhelmingly said 'yes' to the European Union, and that is a fantastic result.
I think we are all of us to blame for that.
I believe that we do not speak enough about the project, about the European Union, about solidarity, about what it really means; we speak more of what we can get or what we give and what is wrong with a directive or what is bad about a regulation.
It really is a very powerful exercise to talk to people directly about the European Union.
And can I say, Commissioner, that if I am not here for the end of this debate, it is not out of any disrespect to you or to the President or to the Presidency; it is other commitments, but thank you all for your support throughout the last while. (HU) Ladies and gentlemen, as an MEP from Hungary, the first country to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon, I welcome the outcome of the Irish referendum.
However, the Treaty of Lisbon also has an extremely important new provision.
Thank you for your attention. (PL) Mr President, adoption of the Lisbon Treaty ends the historic process of the major enlargement of the European Union by 10 new Member States.
This process began in the 1990s and is ending with agreement on institutional changes which adapt the EU to the new reality.
It would, therefore, seem most important to propose a new policy, one which responds to the challenges which are before us.
I am also proud that last Friday, I was in my home area of Tipperary, watching a landslide victory come through, which showed something that I have always believed in, that Ireland is a huge supporter of Europe, and we fully intend to play our role in the future.
The Lisbon Treaty verdict was a victory for truth over the damned lies and myths perpetrated in some cases by extremists on the 'no' side who tried to take advantage of people's genuine concerns.
As the youngest of the French MEPs, I welcome this choice, which allows us at long last to turn our attention to our citizens' specific concerns.
I should like, however, to make two comments.
Secondly, the failure of the first referendum in Ireland should serve as an example and a lesson to us.
I am one of those who think that we should ensure that this plan is not financed solely through agricultural appropriations, because that would be the wrong signal to our farmers in the context of this crisis and would also represent a risk to the future of our food security and our lands.
We must now send out a clear signal in terms of accountability to those who hold in their hands the future of this key treaty for the Union, for our institutions and for the 500 million Europeans that we represent.
If it is legitimate that some do not wish to go further down the path of European integration, if it is legitimate to voice one's misgivings, then it is also legitimate to let those who want more European integration to progress.
We must learn from this chaotic ratification process and also, obviously, from this commitment to hold negotiations on the organisation of a second referendum in Ireland, as if it were normal to make a population that has taken a sovereign decision vote again, and as if it were normal for agreement to a treaty to be used as a bargaining chip.
The Hungarians therefore regarded the European Union not only as a structure for economic cooperation based on regulations, but also as a community operating on the basis of values.
Hungary's citizens are confident that, once the Treaty comes into force, the EU will become more sensitive to minority-related issues so that measures similar to the Slovak language law will become unacceptable once and for all.
In other words, every European citizen shares the responsibility of ensuring that minorities can freely use their mother tongue without any restrictions and that they feel at home in the land of their birth.
I firmly believe that the Treaty of Lisbon will also greatly help us make the EU's institutions understand better that we must protect our values within the EU as well, and that we must take immediate action if they are violated.
In other words, we refer to these values if this is dictated by our interests, but we forget about them if this suits us better.
As a farmer, I am particularly happy that this time, Irish farmers supported the referendum campaign right from the beginning.
That was a very good decision, because when the treaty enters into force, the European Parliament will obtain equal powers with the Council in agricultural matters, including the codecision procedure in the common agricultural policy, which is definitely good news for European farmers. (GA) Mr President, as a newly-elected Member, I would like to say that I am proud of the positive result voted for by the people of Ireland in the Referendum on the Lisbon Treaty last Friday.
Civil groups and politicians got together and, for the first time that I could recall, political parties - mainstream political parties - put their differences aside and campaigned for the good of Ireland.
The 'no' campaign was also well organised and everyone had their say, including the United Kingdom Independence Party, who ensured that this document - The truth about the Treaty: Stop the EU bulldozer - was distributed widely in Ireland.
Thank you very much for all your support, and we look forward to being positive Europeans from Ireland long into the future. (DE) Mr President, after eight years and many debates and negotiations, there is a real chance now that this Reform Treaty will enter into force, thanks also to the hard work of many people in this House who were committed to this project from beginning to end in the Convention and later in the intergovernmental conferences.
I think that, if the constitutional court in Prague in the Czech Republic gives a positive ruling, there will no longer be any legal grounds for President Klaus to block the EU any further.
Following the Irish 'Yes', a united Europe is now looking at Poland and the Czech Republic.
Finally, I would like to say one more thing - thank you, Ireland. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 2 October was a great day for Europe thanks to the Irish who voted in favour of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Parliament will finally have decision-making powers equal to those of the Council of Agricultural Ministers, thanks to the agreement of the Irish and the favourable votes received in the national parliaments, including the Czech Parliament.
We need a new treaty to provide the European Union with modern instruments and improved working methods enabling us to tackle the challenges of the modern world effectively.
I think that the new legal basis will help accelerate the economic development process and adapt Member States' legal systems.
I also firmly believe that this measure will then allow us to achieve more easily one of the European Union's main objectives, which is to create economic, social and territorial cohesion.
I await with great interest the completion of the ratification process and I am eager for us to get its implementation under way. (PT) Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the resounding 'yes' expressed by the Irish people last Sunday in the referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon.
I am sure that the Treaty will also be ratified by the Czech Republic.
I hope that we are all worthy of a Europe that is increasingly prominent, is more cohesive and which promotes democratic values, social and fundamental rights and economic growth across the world, while also promoting environmental protection. (PT) Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say a few words to applaud the historic and far-reaching result of the referendum in Ireland and to highlight the decisive role played by Fine Gael and its leader, the next Prime Minister of Ireland, Enda Kenny, in leading this process.
Having reached the end of an excessively long debate on its organisation and functioning, the European Union will be able to focus much more, and with new, more effective instruments, on the real problems faced by Europeans: competitiveness, growth and employment.
In view of the lack of information concerning the values, powers, objectives and modus operandi of the European Union, Parliament should propose, at the end of compulsory schooling in each Member State, a new compulsory system of European studies.
By learning it at a young age, they will understand, throughout their life, the potential and enormous usefulness of the European identity created by this unique project to voluntarily share sovereignty on a continental scale. (MT) Yes, this is indeed an historic moment, not only because the Irish have accepted the Treaty with a strong vote in favour, but because today Poland has declared it will ratify the Treaty.
I have only been here for five years, yet there are delegates here who have been working towards this historic moment for a long time.
Amongst them is a colleague of mine, Méndez de Vigo.
His personal opinion does count; however, one cannot hold a whole country, as well as the whole of the European Union, hostage because of a personal political opinion.
Europe is facing tough challenges on issues such as the financial crisis, climate change, immigration problems, and the creation of more jobs in Europe.
A great deal of work needs to be done and the Commission needs to get down to business immediately in order to guarantee that this work is carried out. (HU) I add my sentiments to those of the numerous fellow Members before me who welcomed the decision made by the Irish electorate to vote in favour of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The Treaty of Lisbon is based on European solidarity, and I hope that this solidarity will work in practice and not simply remain a declaration of intent expressed at the European institutions' various forums.
I think that the economic crisis also shows that solidarity is the only means of responding to the challenges we face, and that a strong EU will enable all of us to be important players on the global stage.
I firmly believe that reality will prove to the Eurosceptics that together we are stronger, not to mention that we cannot gain anything by going back to the geopolitical situation of the early 20th century. (PT) Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, with last Friday's result, I hope that Europe can move on from a crisis concerning the Treaties and that it will therefore be possible to have a stable institutional body that is suited to an organisation with 27 Member States, and which is different from that based on the Treaty of Nice.
That is why, as important as it is from a political perspective to hold a discussion on, for example, who is going to be President of the Council, it is more important for the ratification process to end for the Treaty to enter into force, not least because, with this result in Ireland, it is clear that Europe cannot be built against the will of the people.
It is also important to point out that a 'no' vote is as democratic as a 'yes' vote.
I hope that, with ratification in Ireland, the Czech Republic and Poland, a situation of de facto solidarity can be established among Member States.
The second reason for the successful outcome is that those in favour of the Treaty ran a better campaign than the last time when the referendum was rejected.
However, there are at least two aspects that require caution.
The first is that the Treaty still needs the signature of President Klaus, whom we have only embittered with our reaction to his open scepticism and anti-Europeanism when he spoke in this Chamber last spring.
The Lisbon fanatics in this Parliament will now go full steam ahead to create a new European superstate of 500 million people.
The new President of the EU will be the Head of State.
You cannot have two Heads of State and, since the EU takes precedence over national bodies, the EU President - perhaps Tony Blair - will take precedence over our Queen.
I am referring to the Romanian presidential elections which are due to take place on 22 November.
The institutions of the European Council, including primarily the European Parliament, have a moral duty to help a Member State remain civilised.
Do not allow the Balkan mafia to wreck the European Union's noble project.
I am sounding this alarm bell because the European Union's institutions are the Romanian people's last hope. (HU) The supporters of the Treaty of Lisbon are celebrating not just a victory, but a victory for democracy itself on the pretext of the current 'yes' vote in an imposed referendum.
Unfortunately, the Hungarian Parliament was the first to do this.
At the same time, I would like to welcome the victory won by the pro-Europe camp in Ireland.
You clarify these things by giving legal guarantees to the Irish people on taxation, on neutrality, on certain ethical issues and also making a guarantee that all Member States, including Ireland, will have a commissioner when the new Treaty comes into force.
With this clarification you have a new referendum.
This is democratic, and I think we should rejoice and congratulate the Irish people for this.
I just want to say that, independently of who is in Downing Street next year, Britain needs Europe and Europe does need Britain.
There are discussions going on with the European Parliament, with the Commission, in order to put everything in place that we need to do so that the Treaty can enter into force very swiftly.
I also feel, Mr President, a very strong sensation in this House that Europe should move on to be a stronger, bigger player in the world and to show resolve when it comes to the economy, the fight against unemployment, tackling the challenges of globalisation and the climate issue.
There is no way that the EU institutions can force a Member State to choose either a referendum or a parliamentary ratification.
It is a process that started in Laeken many years ago and has involved different democratic bodies and discussions over the years to try to find a common way of taking decisions in a more modern, more democratic and efficient way.
Written statements (Rule 149) The Irish vote is a definite vote in favour of Europe.
Some members also speak about the inability of European institutions even to cope with the realities of a disparate Europe, made up of 27 Member States, in which many of the countries that have recently joined have a different level of development and type of economy.
The inadequacy of the Community's institutional structure, the need to increase the EU's legitimacy in the eyes of its citizens and to have specific instruments to enable the EU to assume global responsibilities in a difficult economic climate justify the determination of Member States to support the shift towards a more democratic Europe.
However, political will is needed to tackle these challenges.
The EU is now waiting on the Polish President to ratify the Treaty quickly, as he promised, and for the Constitutional Court in the Czech Republic to do what the Czech President is refusing to do.
The result of the referendum in Ireland on the Treaty of Lisbon is a vital step in European integration and in strengthening the role of Europe.
The Treaty of Lisbon enables the EU to step up Europe's role in policies on energy, climate change, science and cooperation with developing countries.
The result of the second referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon, held in Ireland, does not change the anti-democratic nature of a process that has disregarded the will of the people from the very beginning.
The disregarding of the Irish people's 'no' in the first referendum, and the unacceptable blackmail and interference that followed it, culminating in an enormous campaign that included the shameless use of the resources of the Irish State and of the European Union, will also go down in history.
For our part, we will continue, with unshakable determination, to fight neoliberalism, federalism and militarism within the European Union.
The rather contemptuous satisfaction shown here regarding the 'yes' extracted from the Irish after months of harassment, guilt campaigns, lies and half-truths is a disgrace to democracy and an insult to the will of the people.
Today, Václav Klaus, President of the Czech Republic, is the only person left to try to resist this liberticidal text that is the Treaty of Lisbon.
During the current global economic downturn, it is important to recognise that effective and efficient European cooperation can provide a medium-sized country, like Ireland or Hungary, with a way of emerging from the crisis.
The most significant progress in this respect will be the increase in the number of areas where decisions are adopted by the EU Council by qualified majority (rather than unanimously), as well as the increase in the number of areas where the European Parliament will have the role of colegislator, along with the EU Council.
On 1 April 2008, the President was commissioned by the Polish Parliament to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon.
If so, it is high time to initiate the procedure for impeachment.
President Kaczyński does not have the right to interfere with this.
Despite the fact that the European Union and its institutions function efficiently on a day-to-day basis without the Lisbon Treaty, failure to adopt it would create an image of a Community which is not able to reach and adopt important decisions.
Apart from introducing the position of High Representative, also known as the EU Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Lisbon Treaty strengthens EU foreign policy by establishing common diplomacy.
in writing. - (RO) The Treaty of Lisbon will allow national parliaments to put Europe-related subjects on the agenda for national debate.
If one third of the national parliaments inform the Commission that this principle has been breached, the Commission is obliged to revise its proposal.
If half of the national parliaments believe that the principle of subsidiarity has been breached, the European Parliament and Council are obliged to make a statement as to whether this principle has been complied with or breached.
Given the duration of the legislative process at European level, the inclusion of Europe-related subjects on the agenda for national debates will allow Member States to receive on time the pointers and guidelines for development and to devise their own at the same time as the EU.
The Treaty of Lisbon reaffirms that the EU's economy is a social market economy and grants the EU new powers in areas such as climate change and energy policy.
in writing. - An Irish 'yes' to the Lisbon Treaty is good news for Europe.
It is therefore essential that the European Parliament takes its due role in the process of creating new institutional setting foreseen by the Lisbon Treaty, wherever possible.
