I would therefore ask that it be removed from the agenda and that we proceed directly to the vote tomorrow in order to save time, both for the President and for all the other Members.
The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the meeting of Euro-Mediterranean Foreign Ministers in Valencia of 22/23 April 2002 and the situation in the Middle East.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
It is a great pleasure for me to appear in this House to inform you of two issues which are related for obvious reasons.
On the one hand, the Fifth Euro-Mediterranean Ministerial Conference which took place in Valencia yesterday and the day before yesterday, and on the other, the current situation in the Middle East, the latest events and the efforts being made to put the peace process back on track.
If you will allow me, I will begin by describing the contribution I believe this ministerial meeting has made and then end with some comments on the situation in the Middle East.
I therefore believe that the fact that we have been able to hold it is a success in itself.
I would also like to stress that practically all the Member States of the Barcelona Process attended at ministerial level and there was therefore an extremely high level of attendance and decision-making capacity, for which I am grateful to the countries of the South and the East of the Mediterranean as well as all my colleagues in the European Union.
I would therefore like to say that everything we have achieved and approved in Valencia - I insist, by consensus - is not only the result of this desire for agreement, but also of everybody's contributions.
It is the first time - I will talk about this later - that, following the Barcelona Declaration of 1995, documents of this nature have been approved by everybody, and not only as mere Presidency declarations of conclusions following a series of debates.
In this context, I would also like to stress - and I will return to this later - that we have approved the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly.
In any event, in the international situation resulting from 11 September and for a European Union on the point of the greatest enlargement in its history, which will practically double its current number of Members, I believe there is no doubt that the Mediterranean is becoming our strategic border, a region where we have to build an area of shared peace, stability, development and prosperity, an area in which the dialogue and cooperation between cultures and civilisations which the Barcelona Declaration calls for is possible.
The Valencia action plan, the joint justice and internal affairs programme and the programme on dialogue between cultures and civilisations respond to this challenge, to this ambition to give the Barcelona Process new political impetus, which we all thought was languishing.
Also by means of the implementation of new mechanisms for political dialogue and cooperation between the Twenty-seven, including issues such as security and defence policy, which I believe is very important, or terrorism - which I will refer to in a moment - or the promotion of human rights.
And it is also envisaged that the plan will for the first time be subject - being a specific action plan approved by everybody - to monitoring and an assessment of compliance at the next Sixth Ministerial Conference in Barcelona, which I believe will make it more credible.
We all know that, in order for the Euro-Mediterranean process to be a success, it is necessary to guarantee the economic and, therefore, social and political development of the countries of the South.
The plan also takes up the conclusions and decisions adopted at the Euro-Mediterranean trade and industry ministerial meetings in Toledo and Malaga respectively.
In the industrial field it includes provisions to promote legislative harmonisation in order to facilitate the integration of our partners, promote innovation and access to new technologies and increase the role of the private sector in the construction of the Euro-Mediterranean association.
In this field I would also like to stress the European Union's will to facilitate the incorporation of the Mediterranean partners into the Galileo satellite navigation network.
Finally, with regard to the social, cultural and human chapter, the Presidency has tried to respond to the challenges posed by such important issues as immigration, dialogue between cultures and civilisations or the participation by the different players from civil society in Euro-Mediterranean construction, incorporating a series of measures into the action plan of which I would like to highlight the following: firstly, the adoption of a framework document, which I mentioned earlier, on justice and internal affairs, which deals, for example, with such important issues as the fight against drugs, the fight against organised crime, the fight against terrorism, treatment of migratory flows and the movement of persons, etc.
This has also led us to adopt the decision in Valencia to convene a Euro-Mediterranean Ministerial Conference on migration.
It is a project shared by everybody and it must therefore be a response to the challenges in this field, a concrete response, also the adoption of an action plan, which can be channelled by means of the foundation or by some other method, so that the dialogue between cultures and civilisations focuses on three areas which we believe to be fundamental: youth, education and the media.
We have also decided to extend the Tempus programme to the Mediterranean partners, which would allow for the development of cooperation between universities on the two sides of the Mediterranean and, very importantly, the incorporation into the university world of the two sides of the Mediterranean as players in the creation of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
In summary, we are facing a new stage; if you like, a new phase in the Barcelona Process.
Naturally, Mr President, over these two days, with the presence of Arab countries, amongst them all those directly involved in the Middle East conflict, and Israel and the European Union, it was absolutely essential that we dedicated a good proportion of the sittings to the debate on the situation in the Middle East.
There has been - and there still is - the Israeli occupation of cities controlled by the Palestinian Authority, and in this regard I would like to repeat our demand for an immediate withdrawal of Israeli troops.
It is absolutely essential that medical and assistance organisations can carry out their tasks.
A very important meeting is taking place today in Oslo which must specify what we must do to deal with the most urgent and immediate needs from a humanitarian point of view, and also what we can do for the reconstruction - not just physical, but also institutional - of the territories and of the Palestinian Authority.
I would also like to mention another very important point: it is very regrettable that the consular representations of our countries cannot carry out their duties owing to the constant obstacles presented by the Israeli army in the occupied territories.
We have made representations both in Tel Aviv, as the troika, and, as Presidency, to the Israeli Ambassador in Spain.
Furthermore, the consuls in Jerusalem have held many contacts with the Israeli army authorities and, for the moment, some progress is being made, although I believe that it is clearly insufficient.
The European Union is always firmly committed to helping to resolve the problem in the region.
We have therefore firmly supported the peace initiatives such as the Saudi plan, which was supported by the Summit of the Arab League in Beirut and which presented the possibility of normalising relations between Israel and its Arab neighbours in exchange for an Israeli withdrawal to the 1967 borders and a fair solution to the problem of refugees on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions.
We wanted to send a clear message of concern, but also of involvement by the European Union given the events.
We decided to send the Presidency and the High Representative to the region to talk to the parties at the highest level in order to demand an immediate ceasefire, the application of United Nations Resolutions Nos 1397 and 1402 and a return to negotiations on a political agreement.
And to maintain the unity of the whole international community on the basis of common positions seems to me extremely important.
As you know, we issued a public declaration establishing a common position on the conflict and supporting Secretary of State Powell's mission to the region.
They are doing so and they are doing it very well.
In that Madrid Declaration we expressly asked for immediate compliance with Resolution No 1402, as demanded by Resolution 1403, and therefore an immediate ceasefire, an immediate withdrawal from Palestinian cities, including Bethlehem and Ramallah and in particular the general headquarters of President Arafat.
Returning to the declaration, terrorism is immoral and illegal, it has seriously damaged the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinians and it must be condemned, as Security Council Resolution 1373 clearly states.
A new perspective has been opened up by establishing a timetable for withdrawal, but it is clear that there are unacceptable exceptions.
There is close contact between all the parties involved and, in particular, with the Vatican, which I hope will bear fruit.
A peace conference cannot start from nothing.
I hope that a meeting of the Quartet will take place very soon, in which we can analyse all these elements and continue to contribute new ideas and new efforts so that, in the end, Palestinians, Israelis, the Arab world in general, can offer themselves and future generations the prospect of peace, co-existence, stability and prosperity which for very many years has been denied them. (Applause) Mr President, some may find it unrealistic to speak about the Barcelona Process when the Middle East is in flames - and that view is not entirely unfounded.
The fact that we were able to hold the meeting in Valencia in the present circumstances has been a tribute not only to the vision that took shape in Barcelona in 1995, but also to the remarkable work of the Spanish Presidency.
Let us focus just for a moment on the achievements of Valencia: firstly, agreement on an excellent action plan to show the way forward for the coming months; secondly, the signing of the Association Agreement with Algeria bringing us very close to the completion of the grid of Agreements - we have now negotiated 11 out of 12.
I hope that we can have a little more parliamentary dynamism on behalf of the Member States.
Economic reforms will help achieve the growth and investment needed for this purpose, and the gradual creation of a true EuroMed internal market will create many new opportunities.
There was good news at Valencia from the four countries involved in the Agadir Process that an agreement between them should be signed very soon.
The ratio of payments to commitments in the MEDA programme improved from 26% for the 1995-1999 period, to 37.6 % in 2000 and to 53.1% in 2001.
Last December we adopted new country and regional strategy programmes for the years 2002 to 2004 which provide a more focused and stable framework for our financial cooperation.
In this context I also welcome the agreement to create a reinforced EIB lending facility for the region and congratulate the Council Presidency on the great leadership they have shown in that area, which should enable us to get more help to the private sector in the countries to the south of the Mediterranean.
Finally, in Valencia, we discussed the dialogue of cultures and civilisations.
As you know the Commission has taken a number of initiatives in this area, including a proposal to create a Euro-Med Foundation.
I have heard huge enthusiasm from all quarters for deepening the dialogue between cultures, but apparently, for some people, EUR 1 million is too high a price to pay at the moment.
There is agreement in principle on this issue, which I welcome, but the Member States must make this modest financial commitment if the Foundation is to get off the ground. (Applause) I should like to turn now to the situation in the Middle East, which overshadowed our meeting in Valencia.
I have utterly condemned suicide bombings and terrorist acts, and I do it here again without any qualification whatsoever.
That is what it means to be a democratic society; that is what the rule of law means. (Applause) I want to make four points: First of all, Full Withdrawal: We regret that the Powell mission did not yield immediate results in terms either of a ceasefire or of an immediate withdrawal.
I wanted to talk about full access: With regard to the humanitarian situation, there must be full and unhindered access to the affected areas, particularly refugee camps.
We are nevertheless still committed to making a full and substantial economic contribution to peace-building, with the aims of improving the living conditions of the Palestinian people, consolidating the Palestinian authority, strengthening the economic basis of the future state of Palestine and promoting development and regional economic integration.
Our commitment to consolidate the Palestinian Authority and to reconstruction, will need to be integrated within a wider political process including sufficient guarantees from both parties in the conflict that our efforts will not be wasted or destroyed.
I expect that tomorrow's meeting of the international donor community in Oslo, the so-called Ad Hoc Liaison Committee, will help us to quantify the damages and begin to prepare a co-ordinated response by donors.
I must repeat my grave concern about the destruction of the basic structures of the Palestinian Authority and military operations against Arafat.
The fight against terrorism cannot be used as a justification for the destruction of basic infrastructure of the Palestinian Authority. (Applause) I am also very concerned at the breakdown of general law and order.
Palestinians will have to rebuild large parts of their administration without which daily life cannot function in an orderly fashion.
The Commission is committed to supporting and rebuilding these structures.
I have lost count of the number of debates that I have taken part in on the Middle East over the last two and a half years.
We must not, though, reduce our dialogue with the Arab and Islamic world to simply fighting terrorism; it must, rather, be a dialogue that includes all the political, economic, financial and cultural issues.
We would, though, be failing in our responsibility as Europeans and as a Parliament if we believed that the creation of such an institution would mean that all our tasks had been completed.
That is why development in these countries must be a success.
This, then, is another reason - Israel is of course one, but this is another - why we have to take on important responsibilities in the region.
We urge the parties involved - the Palestinians, the Israelis, the world community - onward to redouble their efforts so that peace may at last reign in the Middle East, so that we Europeans may also have a good future with the countries around the Mediterranean, and so that Israel and Palestine may be able to live within secure borders.
That alone will serve the cause of human rights in the Middle East. (Applause) Mr President, at a time like this we Europeans who are working together here must remind ourselves of the fundamental elements that unite us, and we must remember that we are working for a united, democratic Europe which combats racism and xenophobia.
Let us remember what President Mitterrand said in his last speech in this House: 'Le nacionalisme c'est la guerre'.
This is an essential principle of our co-existence which we must state loud and clear today.
Furthermore, Mr President, I believe - and I address this to my respected friend, Shimon Peres, who said yesterday in Madrid that he was worried about the growth in anti-Semitism in Europe - that we also all have to be concerned about the demonstrations of intolerance we are seeing on our continent.
Turning to the report by the President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say that, with regard to the Euromed Conference, you know that we share your objectives.
In any event, what the President-in-Office of the Council has said today contains one essential idea: a network of association agreements is being created little by little, the agreement with Algeria has just been signed, and that is very positive.
The problem is - and I also address this to the President-in-Office of the Council - that no notice has been taken of what Parliament said in its last resolution, because we are everybody's friend and we want to be partners and associates of all the countries of the Mediterranean.
We also said other things: we are in favour of an intervention force, we are in favour of blocking arms exports.
These are ideas which I believe the Council should develop, because it makes no sense to come to Parliament to complain that our diplomats are being treated badly and then say that all options are open.
The first step must be to give the UN group the opportunity to investigate the atrocities that have taken place there.
According to the Speaker of the Knesset, with whom I had the opportunity to speak yesterday, 65% of Israel's population support Sharon but, at the same time, 80% support the Saudi Arabian peace proposal.
Finally, I wish to assure Commissioner Patten that the ELDR Group will come up with the money when it is asked to do so.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do have the vague impression that, on the one hand, we are all right and that, on the other hand, we are all hypocrites.
The international community spoke out for justice and injustice at the same time.
We can do this immediately.
I think that the Palestinian Authority is a social structure in which the democratic process is underway, but there is still much for it to do.
We are Europeans who wish to fight for the right to live in a State that belongs to the Israelis and to the Palestinians.
And if we manage to think like that, well, in fact, we can think that if Mr Sharon has committed crimes against humanity, or war crimes - I cannot say and it is not up to me to decide - we now have an international tribunal in The Hague.
From the events in Sabra and Chatila to what has just happened in Jenin, those responsible for the massacres must now be brought before the court of international justice. (Applause) Those who welcome this must also welcome the fact that those in Palestine who are responsible for sending young people to massacre Israelis will also be brought before the international tribunal in The Hague.
I shall conclude by saying that I support a UN-led international fact-finding mission to investigate events in Jenin, and I ask all those who, today, are in favour of this, bearing in mind that the State of Israel is a democratic country, why then did they refuse an international fact-finding mission being sent to Algeria, when Algeria is not nearly as democratic as Israel is today.
A total of 47 bodies have been recovered from the debris so far.
on 4 April, the army surrounded the hospital with 22 tanks.
This has nothing to do with the legitimate defence of the security of Israel.
Sooner or later, Mr Sharon will have to explain his actions.
Yes, it is time to react much more firmly.
Ariel Sharon has also announced the stepping-up of military operations in Gaza.
Yes, we must react, without waiting for a response - which is, unfortunately, hardly likely - from the United States, whose President is insulting the Palestinians and is making himself look stupid by depicting Mr Sharon as a man of peace.
Mr President, in many ways we have become so desensitised to the violence that takes place around the world that what happened in Jenin, what has happened with the suicide bombers in Israel, has seemed to pass us by completely.
When you look at the situation from that reality, finding a solution or a compromise is not difficult, because despite what some speakers have said, it is not love of one's country or nationalism that causes war violence; it is lack of respect, lack of tolerance of differing viewpoints and of diversity within our society.
The only real solution to the problems in Israel, Palestine and the whole Middle East region, is to bring the combatants together.
As rightly as we condemn all forms of violence, as rightly as we condemn the episodes that have taken place in Jenin, in the Church of the Nativity around Bethlehem, and the suicide bombers in the cafes and restaurants in Israel, we must also be willing and aware in order to assist in bringing the people together.
Mr President, in this Parliament and the other European institutions, it is constantly emphasised that the European Union is, and should be, a community of values.
I really imagined myself to be back in the days of the notorious Nazi poisoner, Julius Streicher.
During the Euromed Conference in Valencia, the Israeli Foreign Affairs Minister, Shimon Peres, rightly condemned anti-Semitic excesses in Europe.
I believe that the presence of Parliament's delegation was justified insofar as it was able to witness in situ the efforts made by the Spanish Presidency to hold and manage, often against the odds but always with skill, a meeting which was very complicated given the very tense situation in the region in question.
I also believe I can safely say that the presence of Parliament has been useful, that it will have contributed in some way to the success, within the Valencia action plan, of certain proposals which stem from resolutions and parliamentary debates in this House.
Equally important are the decisions which imply an insistence on progress with liberalisation in the Mediterranean region and we hope that the Association Agreement with Lebanon will be signed during the current Presidency.
Furthermore, we should welcome the statement that there is a need to hold an open and in-depth debate on the organisation of migratory flows and their management on both sides of the Mediterranean.
We in the European Parliament must continue to insist on the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean Development Bank and meanwhile, we must monitor and demand the support of the institutions involved - and in this regard I am sure we can count on the cooperation of the European Commission - in order to comply with the commitment to double the funds of the EIB in the region until 2006.
The support of the Conference for the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly seems to me very significant and I am sure that we will be able to dedicate our work in the next parliamentary forum in Bari in June to debating its launch, which must be a crucial element in the institutionalisation of the Barcelona Process.
And in this same respect, we must applaud the creation of a foundation which promotes dialogue between cultures and civilisations, which my group has repeatedly called for.
Without saying any more, I would like, Mr President, to end with a double appeal to this House.
Firstly that, despite all the tragedy, we continue with our efforts towards peace, and secondly, increase the internal dialogue in this House in order to ensure that the positions of the European Parliament are the result of a broad consensus, because that is the only way, through unity, that Parliament's voice can be heard and that it can contribute to the peace process we all want to see.
Mr President, I agree that Valencia was a success - and I agree with Mr Piqué that the very fact the meeting took place was an achievement.
As I see it, Israel has many enemies to defeat before it can live in security and peace.
Another enemy is terrorism, and here too we are right behind Israel in combating all forms of terrorism, including the - appalling - series of suicide attacks.
Israel's third enemy is certainly the refusal hitherto of many countries to recognise its existence or to maintain appropriate relations with the country.
It is precisely in the European Union and its principles and policies that Israel has a friend and ally: in refusing to accept this friendship and support, the Israeli Government is making a huge mistake.
These are all positions of the Sharon Government which have placed Israel in difficulties, and they certainly do nothing to further the advent of peace or - consequently - a secure future for Israel.
Finally, Israel's security does not depend on the number of tanks occupying the territory but on the undertaking of the international community, and Madrid - the quartet, as Mr Piqué said - is the most important development.
Mr President, it seems natural to me on beginning an assessment of the Valencia Conference and the situation in the Middle East to point out a particularly significant coincidence; firstly, I would stress the extent to which the Barcelona Process is justified at this point in time, and at the same time acknowledge that the situation in the Middle East is worse than it has been for many years.
The operative approaches taken, as has been said previously, promote the defence of human rights, development, work, dialogue, peace and democracy.
Furthermore, we have done so by means of important instruments such as the Foundation, the decision not to give up on the Bank, an open Bank, a Bank which allows for co-ownership, the creation of a parliamentary assembly which as well as being useful combines two characteristics: firstly, that it is a proposal by Parliament and secondly, that it is a genuinely parliamentary proposal, and it is therefore of particular interest to us.
As has already been said, I am very pleased that Parliament's delegation was present: eight representatives, and I believe that this presence and the consideration that has been given to Parliament's report in Valencia are positive but, Mr President, I will return to the beginning: the conflict and tragedy in the Middle East affect everybody and everything.
The fact that at this point the structures of the Palestinian National Authority have been destroyed, Arafat is confined, there is an occupation, there are serious humanitarian problems, which, at the same time, the Israeli Government is doing absolutely nothing about, and is ignoring every law and every agreement, and that the European Union cannot impose any solution, is an extremely serious situation.
I am referring to the embargo, to the Association Agreement with Israel, but also to the importance of the United States in relation to this issue, and the extent to which Parliament, and the European Union, is pursuing its efforts.
Jenin can be called Palestine's ground zero.
Last Sunday, the New York Times reported that a Berlin Wall is to be built around the whole of the West Bank.
It is the same kind of policy that finally led to the intervention in Kosovo to rescue the Kosovan Albanians.
They are women from The Jerusalem Link, Israeli and Palestinian women.
The two peoples cannot enjoy peace and security unless the root cause of this conflict, the true enemy of peace - military occupation - is eliminated.
We cannot turn a blind eye to the policies and practices conceived with the aim of humiliating and oppressing the Palestinians and forcing them to submit to the strategic programme of expropriation, settlements and colonisation that Israel has been pursuing throughout 34 years of occupation.
We cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that non-violent attempts by Palestinian movements to oppose the denial of their fundamental human rights have, in the past, always been met with violence and repressive measures from Israel and with silence on the part of the international community.
I feel that Parliament must realise that the clauses making all the economic and institutional agreements concluded between the Union and third countries subject to respect for human, civil and political rights are destined to remain a dead letter.
Lastly, Mr President, I would like to underline firmly how necessary and appropriate it would be for the European Union to display its willingness to bring about full integration of the Israeli democracy into the European Union.
This is an opportunity to be seized by a Europe for whom the peace and future of that region are very important, an opportunity for a Europe with a vision.
I regret that President Cox is no longer in the chair, if I may say so, as I would have liked to say to him directly - although I am sure that you will pass on my comments - that, in France, many sectors of public - and especially sovereignist - opinion believe that the positions we adopted on Monday on the outcome of the presidential elections in France are not only null and void and have no effect, but above all, they mark a very serious dereliction of the duty of impartiality that must be respected by any Parliament's president, on the one hand, and even more so by an international rather than supranational Parliament, which has no place interfering in the political affairs of a Member State.
We heard this in 1991 during the Gulf War; we heard this mentioned again two or three years later in the affair in the Great Lakes Region of Africa; we heard this once again in relation to Bosnia, and again in relation to Kosovo.
Each time, it was a pious hope and, each time a new international crisis rears its head, Europe is mute, mute because European countries are incapable of agreeing on a common approach.
It is time for France - and I myself have been convinced of this for some years - to throw off this yoke and I do not doubt that it will do this, which is what the great majority of French people desire, in the years to come.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I do actually believe that the Foreign Ministers' meeting in Valencia was a success, and, step by step, it is also becoming clear what significance the Mediterranean region has for all of us - not only for those countries of the European Union for whom the Mediterranean forms a border, but also for those countries further away from it.
It is important, for this reason, that this dialogue should be engaged in on the basis of equality of rights.
That implementation is inadequate is due both to difficulties on our side and to bureaucracy in the countries in question, and that must change.
On this issue, what Commissioner Patten has said in this House about joint efforts is precisely what needs to be said loud and clear.
It is not acceptable to send them to Israel and by this means to bring about change within Israel; rather, the Arabs must be prepared to offer the Palestinian refugees a future in their countries.
It was not obvious whether the Conference could take place, whether the Arab members of the Barcelona Process would agree to sit down with representatives of Israel, whether the representative of the Palestinian Authority could attend, etc.
Some years after Barcelona this seems absolutely clear.
But I would like to stress the second reason, because the European Union's external policy is so often criticised that we should sometimes stop and consider to what extent the success of the Ministerial Conference in Valencia is due mainly to the perception our Mediterranean partners have of that policy: their perception that our horror at the tragedy in the Middle East is sincere, their perception that we have not backed away in the face of this problem, their perception that our position is not unilateral but coordinated, and finally their perception that we are not indulging in empty posturing in the face of the current problems.
Poor people - and there are many in the Mediterranean - always have enormous patience as long as two conditions are in place: the first is that they feel that next year is going to be a little better than this one or the last one, that the situation of their children is going to be better than that of their parents and that their grandchildren are going to go to university; the second condition is that they do not feel humiliated.
These are the two basic challenges of the European Union's Mediterranean policy.
Israel's security can only be guaranteed if we remove the causes of this despair: the colonisation and occupation.
The Palestinians we spoke to told us that the situation was the same in Nablus, in Ramallah and in all the cities of the West Bank.
We saw that it is possible for a sovereign State to confine the President of the Authority of a territory which has absolutely nothing to do with it, or a leader such as Barghuti, or how helicopters and tanks carry out terrorism.
A religious minister who recently entered the government said that all the Palestinians should be thrown into the sea and that those who stayed there would be like the Turks in Germany or the Algerians in France.
I believe that the Palestinians are right - the President of the Palestinian Parliament, or the successor in Jerusalem to the late Hussein - when they express their desperation to us.
I believe that we must be aware of this problem in order to resolve it.
Many sources in the United States say that Europe must not get involved given their previous experience.
Mr President, I too have just come back from Jenin and, when Commissioner Patten says that 'Israeli soldiers have sometimes shown a disregard' for human life, I have to say that I am very surprised to hear him use that terminology.
If that is not a lack of respect for human life, I do not know what is.
And furthermore, you, quite rightly, did not agree, Mr President, to sending observers or a peacekeeping force without a negotiated political agreement.
What sort of role could they perform in a situation which, quite clearly, does not involve two regular armies?
Any lack of coordination in the European Union's behaviour can only undermine the supply of confidence that we must have when dealing with each party, if we wish to provide an effective contribution, when the time comes, to finding a lasting peace.
The European Union must be totally unambiguous, unequivocal and show no complacency on this point.
In the coming weeks, the European Union must also help to make the United Nations investigation into the events in Jenin impartial rather than a pretext for manipulations or excesses which will not help the cause of peace.
With the prospect of establishing a Palestinian state on the horizon, we must also help to convince the Palestinian Authority to abandon its twin-track approach and to start behaving in a fully responsible way.
Simply to discuss this issue from one month or one week to the next, however, seems almost grotesque.
In implementing his reprehensible policy, Mr Sharon has demonstrated that he does not respect the resolutions of the European Union, those of the United Nations or even the recommendations of President Bush.
As a long-standing friend of Israel, it pains me to have to say that Mr Sharon is irredeemably tainting Israel's honour and is putting his country in a morally indefensible position and in a greater situation of international isolation than ever before.
The majority in this Parliament called two weeks ago for a suspension of the EU-Israel Association Agreement.
I support an arms embargo but not sanctions, and I am even more convinced on my return that, while it may satisfy our desire to be seen to be doing something, this is a potential dead end.
While Palestinians see themselves in a struggle for national liberation from oppressive Israeli occupation, 75 percent of Israelis see themselves as the principal victims, struggling for national survival.
If our objective is to be effective in achieving a Palestinian State as soon as possible, and establishing peace and justice in the region, we should exert all our diplomatic efforts in that direction and not in suspending the chance for dialogue that we have.
The work that the Palestinians have done in building up the very basics of a state over the past 10 years is systematically being destroyed.
There have been many resolutions and conferences.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Patten has once again, and impressively, set out a convincing position by the European Union on the conflict in the Middle East, and I want to make some comments on it.
Last week, a major German newspaper carried a report on a bloody terrorist attack in Jerusalem four years ago - long before the second intifada - which cost many innocent people their lives or their health.
There are many indications that the parties will not be in a position to free themselves from their mutual hatred, and that an international force will have to be deployed there.
The European Parliament has asked for maximum pressure to be exerted, for a suspension of the Association Agreement and for a willingness, in the event of a ceasefire, to contribute immediately to the monitoring and intervention force which would help develop the Palestinian Authority and help separate the warring factions.
The violence and the killing must stop.
Together with the United States, the EU can play an important role in the process of achieving a ceasefire, together with peace and reconciliation.
I also want to say that the comparison which Mr Gahrton has just made between Israel and the policy of apartheid in South Africa is appalling.
The adoption of the action plan between the European Union and the twelve States bordering the Mediterranean is a step forwards in the much-needed creation of a Mediterranean free trade area, which I would call a genuine form of discreet enlargement towards the South.
In formalising this project, we must ensure that criteria of sustainability and ecological, economic and social benefit for both sides of the Mediterranean are taken into account in sectors such as agriculture.
For this reason, we must promote joint projects such as a Euro-Mediterranean television service that would maintain stations in all the States bordering the Mediterranean, and which would broadcast in all of the region's languages and provide live transparency for this action plan and others.
Europe should be making increasing efforts to bring peace to the Middle East, but so far it has failed in its task.
Therefore, Europe must certainly adopt a position which gives it a strong, an increasingly strong, presence but which is also a position of neutrality between the two parties in conflict.
Then, we must immediately set in motion a humanitarian aid programme and food aid for the Palestinian people and, clearly, even if Israel is against the idea, start to think seriously about sending an intervention force to separate the two parties in conflict until the situation has calmed down.
Lastly, we must set in motion a Marshall Plan for the reconstruction of infrastructures in the tragically war-torn Palestinian territory.
We must prevent the Middle East crisis from sparking off a fresh wave of anti-Semitism in Europe.
That is why we must all genuinely strive to build a new Europe with a single foreign and security policy, an influential Europe which is the Europe of inclusiveness and subsidiarity.
This Europe will win through, for the European citizens are on our side, on the side of peace and tolerance.
Mr President, I want to welcome Commissioner Patten´s statement today.
I have also been to Jenin and seen the destruction there, the destruction of homes and of people's lives, the burying of people in the rubble of their own homes.
We need to demonstrate that the Sharon extremism will not bring security to the Israeli State, nor will Palestinian suicide bombers bring a Palestinian State into existence.
Only through slow and painful negotiations with compromises can that occur, only then can the Israelis and Palestinians be secure in their own states.
I met with ambassadors in Tel Aviv, moved on to Jerusalem to meet Israeli peace groups and then on to Jenin to talk to the residents there.
The objective of the Sharon Government at this point in time is the destruction of any possibility of a Palestinian State.
Europe, therefore, must bring pressure to bear on Sharon and his government to see that this is not a viable option for Israel.
In conclusion, the most important and effective weapon we have is the Association Agreement.
It is a moderate approach which can be stepped up or cancelled when progress is made by Israel in withdrawing her troops from the Palestinian area, giving free access to humanitarian aid and free access to the United Nations mission in Jenin and elsewhere.
There are many other conditions we could perhaps apply.
Mr President, as a Spanish Member of this Parliament, as a Valencian and as a member of the European People's Party, I shall not take too long to say that I consider the Valencia Summit to have been a success.
I consider it to be a success that the summit took place in such difficult circumstances; it is a success that it was attended by twenty-five of the twenty-seven Members who were invited; it was a success that a joint action plan was agreed on by consensus and I consider it to have been a success that a conclusion was reached - explained better than I can by Commissioner Patten: in order to speed up the Barcelona Process, the peace process in the Middle East must be speeded up but there will be no stable peace in the Middle East unless it is achieved within a framework of stability, development and cooperation such as the framework put forward in Barcelona.
The President-in-Office of the Council has referred to all the statements detailing how this needs to be undertaken, from the Madrid Conference or the Oslo process to the United Nations resolutions.
What is hard to explain to our voters, to the media or to our visitors is how the European Union, which is Israel's largest trading partner and the main donor to the Palestinian Authority, is unable to do any more than it is currently doing.
I also agree that our mission to the Middle East is a success, particularly because it is repairing the damage suffered by the previous mission but, I repeat, we will have to explain to our voters what we are going to do, how we are going to do it and when we are going to do it, as long as it is soon.
With regard to the Barcelona Process, the action plan starts by acknowledging that what is needed is literally 'momentum', which simply means accepting that the 1995 Barcelona Process has made slower progress than originally expected and, of course, much slower progress than the needs we have been discussing here require, when we talk about the Mediterranean as a strategic border, when we talk about the 45 million new jobs that must be created on the southern shore of the Mediterranean in order to maintain current levels of unemployment.
I repeat that in Valencia it was acknowledged that there is a gap - actually an enormous distance - between what we want to achieve, that is, what is needed, and what we are going to do.
The creation of the Bank, relations of closer cooperation and association relations are all tangible projects which show the European Union to be the ideal partner for the other shore of the Mediterranean.
However, if, as the European Union, we do not have the courage to dare to go further, using all the means available to us and taking advantage of the hopes that are placed in us, then we will in all probability waste an opportunity that is historic, not least in terms of the European project which is in the minds and hearts of many of us and which is taking shape in the Convention.
It is a symbolic fact of extreme importance: the attention of the whole world is focused on what is happening in the place where Jesus Christ, the bearer of peace to all men, was born.
Mr President, I welcome both Commissioner Patten's contribution to this debate and Kofi Annan's decision to send a fact-finding team to ascertain exactly what happened during the Israeli bombardment of Jenin refugee camp.
This resulted in the massacre of 800 Palestinians in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps.
Mr Sharon must take personal responsibility for what has happened in Jenin and elsewhere on the West Bank.
He humiliated the US Government during Colin Powell's recent visit to the Middle East.
Mr President, almost all ordinary citizens of Israel wish to live in peace in their own country.
To my delight today is the first time in my two and a half years as an MEP that I have heard Members of this House address this topic with such confidence.
Firstly, Israel must have the right to exist with a secure border and it must be fully recognised as a state by all its neighbours.
Thirdly, Israel must accept neutral international observers under UN sponsorship to facilitate a ceasefire.
Until that happens there will be no peace in the Middle East and that brings the terror, fear and difficulties that we now see in the European Union.
The last-named group constitutes the military wing of Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement and is responsible for the suicide bombing in Jerusalem on 12 April in which six Israeli civilians were killed.
Nonetheless, everyone knows that these men associated with violence and suicide bombings - these people who are happy to see sons or daughters sent to kill other people and who receive money from Iraq for the purpose - are not at all prepared to recognise the State of Israel's right to exist in the area.
The time has come for the EU to become relevant to both parties in the Middle East.
Mr President, I should like to say firstly that I feel very proud to be working in this Parliament and to see how, at the Valencia Ministerial Conference everything that we have been told corresponds to a position of agreement on cooperation, to which other countries are signing up.
I believe that it is a strong Europe, a Europe of the future, that is achieving this, and I believe that institutional cooperation and cooperation between other countries are aspects that should be highlighted.
One of the failings of the MEDA Plan, one of the causes of the delay in incorporating the countries of the Mediterranean into European policy, or into the offer that we are making, is the need for these to be accepted according to their own logic, to their own scale and with a new sensitivity and a new way of addressing problems.
In my view, to culture, education, tourism and cultural dialogue we can add sustainable development and globalisation, the benefits of which also have an effect in the country that provides these and I think that this is an example of successful coexistence between a world that is in the process of modernising itself and a world that still needs to become part of the change, but which has a great history of its own.
As Vice-Chairman of the Delegation for Relations with Israel, I should also like to say something about the conflict in the Middle East: our position - my position - is quite clear and we have stated it in other forums.
Furthermore we, with a European sensitivity and with our history of peace and democracy and our rules of the game, cannot accept that humanitarian assistance is not being provided and we must call for this loud and clear.
This is the time to strengthen European cohesion, to help Europe to develop a single vision, an institutional position of the Presidency, the Council, the Commission and Parliament, because we are deciding on the future of an entire region and the problem does not just concern the present, but also the future.
Therefore, I now clearly state my support for peace, but for a peace that must be accompanied with very clear and solid positions, on which we are all united, not at a personal or emotional level, but for the sake of reaching an objective, consistent and lasting solution, and in which we bear in mind that our obligation is to ensure that there is peace, but also to look after the future and to look after this Mediterranean area.
In my opinion, reasoning, experience and history teach us how an intervention force can be employed effectively in this modern age, and yet no such force has been deployed.
Mr President, I share your deep concern at the upsurge in violence which has taken place in the Middle East in recent weeks, because both sides appear to have locked themselves into a downward spiral which leaves little room for dialogue and progress towards a final settlement.
The only possible solution is one based on UN Resolutions 242, 338, 1397 and 1402, involving the acceptance of a two-state solution which will give security to the State of Israel and dignity to the Palestinians.
On the one hand, tragically, we have suicide bombers engaged in indiscriminate attacks upon Israeli civilians and, on the other hand, there is a tragic civilian loss of life on the Palestinian side, when Israel sends in its troops to root out those responsible.
In particular, I felt, along with many of my colleagues, that the Palestinian authority, which receives EUR 120 million a year from the EU, should have done more to restrain the suicide bombers and Islamic terrorists.
I call upon Chairman Arafat to condemn, regularly and in Arabic, the terrorist attacks, and recognise Israel's right to exist in peace behind its 1967 borders.
At the same time, I call upon the Likud Party to remove all references in its manifesto to its claims that the West Bank is an integral and perpetual part of the State of Israel.
Yes, Israel must accept that there has to be a Palestinian state in secure borders.
I support the Saudi peace plan, but it is a shocking comment that it has taken nearly 53 years for some Arab states to come forward with a plan which actually recognises the State of Israel.
Israel, too, must face a situation with Yasser Arafat, where he not only does nothing to prevent the terrorist actions taking place, but there is the strongest possible evidence that he is actually complicit in what has happened.
I say to this Parliament that after the events of September 11, we took a view in the civilised world that terrorism was indivisible.
The way towards peace and the way for Europe to contribute towards peace is to use its influence in the area, particularly on the Palestinians, and to say to them, yes, there should be a Palestinian state, yes, there should be a State of Israel, but both must have security throughout the years to come.
Mr President, I should like to thank all those who have spoken for their opinions and their contributions which mean that I do not now have to speak for too long myself, since all possible arguments from all points of view have been put forward, and I must say that many of them, furthermore, were made in a similar vein and in almost identical words.
I repeat, then, that I wish to thank all the speakers and I should now like to focus my answer on two aspects: The first is the potential relationship between the Barcelona Process and the situation in the Middle East.
A stable peace can only be achieved on the basis of prosperity, cooperation, economic integration, mobility between the peoples concerned, the exchange of ideas, exchanges between educational systems, the exchange of peoples, and all that the Barcelona Process entails, in its political, economic, cultural and social aspects, is, therefore, of extreme importance in this regard.
The problem has not been caused solely by specific individuals, however, but by something much more profound, and when a conflict lasts for such a long time, with its various shifts of balance, it is because there is no majority will for peace on either side; because there is no sincerity or honesty in the desire for peace expressed by either side; because, when some express their desire for peace, but in their hearts are hoping for the destruction of the State of Israel, they do not want peace, and because when others say that they want peace, but in their hearts what they really want is to make the myth of a greater Israel a reality and, therefore, the consolidation of a State of Israel on the current occupied territories, they do not really want peace.
It is, furthermore, in this context that we must place the actions of the international community, because our role is especially clear now, and consists of convincing both sides that Israel must issue a sincere and honest renunciation of increasing its territories on the basis of the occupation and the Palestinians and the entire Arab world must issue a sincere and honest renunciation of the destruction of Israel.
What I am saying is that we should act together, because this is extremely important and, if you read the Madrid Declaration carefully, it states what the European Union has been saying for a long time, and it is other countries, including, to a large extent, the United States, that have come around to the positions of the European Union.
It is in this context of the international community, all working together, that it makes sense to talk about observers, that it makes sense to talk about peacekeeping forces, because, otherwise, these things would not be feasible; and that is when it makes sense for us to talk about Marshall plans and economic contributions - which will have to be considerable, of course - and that we also talk about the full import of the rapprochement of the two peoples on the basis, amongst other things, of their educational systems.
We know what the final outcome must be and what we need to do is continue working in this direction.
The debate is closed.
And furthermore, Mr Solana demonstrated total contempt of the United Nations resolutions on Cyprus and international law in general in his statement.
Thank you very much, Mr Alyssandrakis.
Mr President, the main themes of the 2001 human rights report are, in fact, mainstreaming and the EU's human rights policy.
This means in the first place that we should put an end to the harmful tradition whereby the European Union and the Member States set great store by the concept of human rights in their resolutions and reports, but whereby in practice, and in day-to-day foreign policy, they often allow other interests to take precedence.
During a motion on humanitarian situations in the Middle East last week, the European representatives in the UN committee were divided in their vote.
Despite the high priority which Parliament accords this budget chapter, the appropriations were already reduced in 2002.
Especially in the current European climate, where the extreme right is in the ascendant, the European Union has every reason for tackling this growing problem.
This report calls for national and international changes in the law in order to prosecute human traffickers, protect victims and prevent people from ending up in modern forms of slavery.
It is patently obvious that terrorist attacks are serious crimes that should be treated accordingly.
However, human rights violations can also be a breeding ground for terrorism and, at the same time, the fight against terrorism can lead to new human rights violations, can serve as justification for human rights violations or can make countries turn a blind eye to violations committed by allied forces in the fight against terrorism.
Above all, the attacks of 11 September and the fight against terrorism have painfully exposed the shortcomings of international law.
The report therefore calls for new rules, new conventions and new instruments which accommodate these new types of conflict.
I hope that Parliament will be able to give its unanimous backing to this human rights report tomorrow.
Mr President, we have drafted this report that I am presenting today mindful of the fact that the Commission communication notes the importance that the Union attaches to human rights in the development of its external policy and this, in our opinion, should be warmly welcomed.
I should like to emphasise, however, that although this communication puts forward important proposals and suggestions, it does not provide, in our view, practical instruments that will enable us to successfully confront the new challenges resulting from the new vision that we share and in which human rights and their promotion are fully integrated into the Union's external policy.
In theory, there are no substantial differences in the approach adopted by the Union institutions on defining how to address the development of human rights and the consolidation of democracy in the world, but it is when it comes to translating words into deeds, however, that differences between the institutions emerge.
The Council is blocking relations, whilst the Member States maintain bilateral relations, in trade and in all types of other fields with the island.
Under these circumstances, the aim of this report is not to reiterate the Union's by now well-known position on this matter, but rather to seek to put forward proposals for firm action, both in the negotiation of agreements of all kinds between the European Union and third states and in the application of these agreements, as well as their possible suspension.
The proposals contained in this report are intended to provide the work of the various Community institutions with greater coherence, putting an end to the de facto contradictions and to the particular predominance of the political will of the Council in this field, because in our opinion, the fact that the Union does not have a position of its own, expressed with a single voice, causes us to act on the international stage according to necessity or under the changing leadership of others who do not always share our interests in this field.
In drafting this report we have been both ambitious and responsible; we have shown the ambition that committing ourselves to the defence of human rights in the world requires and the responsibility that comes from realising that the challenge of integrating human rights into the Union's external policy is a genuinely complex matter.
We have also borne in mind, however, that the contradictions between institutions and the lack of unanimity, coordination and unity in action are the worst enemy of human rights and of democratisation in the world.
As Mr Patten stated this afternoon in his intervention, we are fond of lecturing others on human rights but we would sometimes do well to look at ourselves.
My first proposal is, therefore, to ask the Commission to draw up an interinstitutional code of conduct, designed to ensure a more coherent and more equitable approach in the Union's external action in this field.
This code must govern relations between the Union and the more than 120 States to which the democratic clause currently applies.
Our objectives must be not only to evaluate the progress made by the various partner countries in the field of human rights but also to achieve a coherent balance between countries and regions, above all preventing unfair results, comparative injustices and the treatment of these countries and regions with double standards, all of which we saw in Geneva.
This agency, ladies and gentlemen, would be a body whose objective would be to establish common criteria and parameters for analysing the human rights situation in the world, drawing up an annual assessment that will facilitate interinstitutional action in accordance with the elements that constitute the code.
It is, of course, the Commission that will have to establish the areas in which the agency will act but it would be very useful, in order to produce more effective and coordinated work, if it could, for example, include the evaluation of the impact of structural measures, given their enormous importance in the processes of reconciliation following armed conflict.
I should furthermore like to ask Parliament's services to bear in mind that the original text is in Spanish and to revise the other versions, because there are some differences in the finer points of meaning.
Only if they too manage to come round to defending human rights with no ifs or buts, will we be spared much of what we all feared was coming to us when the terrible events of 11 September struck us.
Commissioner, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation I would firstly like to thank the Commission for their communication on the promotion of human rights and also congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Díez González, on her excellent report, which complements and strengthens the already positive proposals put forward by the Commission in their communication.
Finally, I support the approach geared towards humanitarian aid based on human rights, because of the importance it can have in terms of conflict prevention, and I believe that Country Strategy Papers should propose specific measures for the promotion of human rights, which should be treated as a priority.
The struggle for human rights cannot be disassociated from the fight against poverty and development cooperation policy, inasmuch as both promote the establishment of the economic and social conditions necessary to guarantee peace and to ensure that everyone can live in dignity; conditions without which the respect for fundamental rights is no more than a pipe dream.
For this reason I would make a particular request to the Commission that, in the context of political dialogue and the discussion of the Country Strategy Papers, universal access to education should be considered as a priority issue, because education is indispensable for the development of populations, and without development it will be very difficult for us to talk about full respect for human rights.
Parliament has always given high priority to human rights and defended them in all circumstances, and we have not defended them any the less since 11 September 2001.
That applies not merely to the candidate countries but also to the developing countries.
I should like especially to refer to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities in which we propose that the Commission do some very practical work on a number of aspects of this area.
I have been in the forefront of those campaigning for human rights, democracy and the rule of law in countries such as Burma and Zimbabwe, where the re-election of President Mugabe last month and the political violence and intimidation that continued to accompany it, were a matter of great concern and make a mockery of international actions.
The reports before us today are commendable for their coverage, but they sometimes stray into areas best avoided.
They make no mention of the need for good governance and the fact that corrupt governments in failed states are often the prime source of human rights abuse.
For example, while we strongly support a ban on the horrendous exploitation and abuse of children as child soldiers in countries such as Uganda and Sierra Leone, we cannot support a ban on the recruitment of soldiers under 18 in our own countries.
The British Army is probably the best in the world.
That is what these two reports do brilliantly.
Mr Van Hecke's report reminds us that there is much that is wrong with the world and brilliantly focuses us on the need for the European Union to speak with one voice.
That is the immutable principle in the defence of human rights and universal freedoms.
Mr President, it is perhaps more important than ever today to stand up for tolerance and human rights at a time when racism and intolerance are raising their ugly heads and when the winds of xenophobia and anti-Semitism are being felt in ever more European countries.
The EU has a good policy in this area but, as many have said, it is far too fuzzy and incoherent.
For quite a few years, Parliament and the Commission have proposed different measures for coordinating policy between the institutions and improving follow-up.
Terrorism and human rights are topical subjects too.
We believe in dialogue and, now already, we are making demands, for example in Article Two of the Association Agreement, which are not being fulfilled.
The EU can play an important role when it comes to defending human rights.
The real fight for democracy and against oppression and terrorism begins, of course, here.
Through its association and trade agreements, the EU can conduct an active policy in favour of human rights and democracy.
We could have made a difference in such a way that what some of us experienced in Jenin yesterday might not have actually happened.
Mr President, many of you this week will have noticed the exhibition about the work of Herman Hesse in the Spinelli building.
The promotion of democracy, respect for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms are all values which form an integral part of the Union which we have built together over the past number of years.
We must fully integrate our human rights policies with all policies which involve countries outside the Union, be that trade, agriculture, fisheries, etc.
The Irish Government currently allocates almost EUR 2 million to democracy and human rights projects.
The grants are aimed at promoting respect for human rights and democracy worldwide.
Building a stronger democratic structure must be a key aspect of development efforts.
It is perfectly legitimate to link financial incentives to human rights and democracy questions through our funding of key projects.
I firmly believe that continued action in this direction would ensure that the support of projects would have a real and positive impact on the lives of poor people living in developing countries.
However, I should like to make two observations regarding this human rights debate.
If every Member State and every European institution employs its own instruments wisely, a great deal could be improved today in the fight for recognition of human rights.
Today, the democratic clause serves only to compel Parliament and the public to accept trade and economic agreements concluded with military, religious or political totalitarian regimes.
There are criticisms, as with any programme, but by and large we should congratulate the Commission on the way in which it handled this matter.
The Commission then took on the whole process in-house.
In the meantime, we could surely restore the working party on human rights and democratisation within the Foreign Affairs Committee to maintain the oversight that this Parliament should now have on the EUR 100 million being spent annually under the Budget.
My proposition is fundamentally this: Parliament, and I am grateful to those colleagues who are still in the Chamber, should re-focus on human rights and democratisation.
Mr President, today's debate and report on human rights would appear to be timely.
The European Union must adopt a more consistent and less hypocritical policy.
Mr President, the European Union's commitment to human rights and vigilance in their defence must shape all our Community policies.
As the world's leading economic entity, the Union can exert a powerful diplomatic influence on human progress, especially in the poorest countries that most frequently breach these rights, but which are most often victims as well.
In addition, those here in the House calling for the same thing, Mr President, do not even have the courtesy to explain to us with what right Israel is holding the elected president of a nation prisoner, with what right it is going about arresting people, including members of the Palestinian assembly such as Fatah leader Marwan Barghouti, who has distinguished himself in his untiring efforts to bring about peace, with what right it is killing and laying waste.
There have been 250 conflicts since the Second World War, and 86 million people have been killed in them.
We are faced with the incomprehensible phenomenon of the crimes of 11 September being taken as an excuse to abrogate human rights that had been won over centuries of struggle, such as the Geneva Convention and the rule of law over nations.
The European Union must counter these developments by demonstrating the courage of its own convictions to a high degree.
The Council, the Commission and the EU Member States must take action, and vigorous action at that.
The countries most affected are Romania, Moldavia and the Czech Republic.
The UN protocol on trafficking in human beings, added to the UN Convention Against Organised Transnational Crime, is an important tool in this area.
The Member States and the candidate countries must now translate their words into genuine action in order to put an end to this loathsome trade.
Allow me also to emphasise paragraphs 52, 53, 54 and 55 of Mr Van Hecke's report, which are about religious freedom.
This political dialogue, I believe, is of outstanding importance, as agreement can be reached, in the final analysis, only through discussions with each other.
However, I do welcome the fact that human rights are among the priorities of our foreign policy, that new forms of slavery are being highlighted such as terrorism, in particular, and the slavery of forced child labour and the slavery of forced prostitution; moreover, there are common positions relating to a capacity for cooperation within the World Trade Organisation and the International Labour Organisation to combat these forms of slavery: this is therefore a fight against the exploitation of man by man in all fields and all areas, especially where minors and child abuse are concerned.
This is achieved through two innovations: firstly, an ambassador for human rights, the expression of Parliament, and secondly, a European agency for the promotion of human rights.
Mr President, human rights are an issue we Spanish Socialists are particularly sensitive to, since, at a time when for the majority of men and women in the countries of the European Union human rights formed the main foundation for their system of coexistence, Spain still had to go through decades of hard work and suffering before achieving acceptable and dignified human rights conditions in our society.
For example, it should not be the case that very high standards in human rights should be a prerequisite and unavoidable condition for the European Union to be able to cooperate with third countries, but rather that to raise the level of respect for human rights in each country with which we cooperate should be the objective and result of such cooperation.
My second observation comes as a response to criticisms we have heard with regard to the fact that, whilst we make many demands in the area of human rights in relation to third countries, particularly countries in the developing world, we are far more tolerant, on the other hand, when faced with frankly unsatisfactory situations in this area within EU countries themselves.
These reports refer specifically to third countries, but I take it for granted that the moral and political authority of our debate on cooperation in the world surrounding the European Union, with which we hope to be able to have a coherent relationship, will be much more credible and effective if we practice what we preach, and when what we require of others is endorsed by our own conduct, and by our self-imposed requirement to continue making progress, day after day, to improve the protection of human rights within the EU itself.
Mrs Díez González, in your report on the Commission communication on human rights, you call on the institutions to work out a common code of conduct to serve as a basis for the EU's relations with third states.
The Commission reaffirms the significance, for the European Union's relations with other states, of a constructive and dynamic concept founded on critical partnership and collaboration.
The Council, too, reaffirmed this approach with its guidelines for dialogues on human rights.
Such dialogue shows particular promise when respect for human rights and for democratic principles forms an essential component of agreements concluded with third states and when such agreements include a clause on human rights.
The European Union can rely on reports by the United Nations, the Council of Europe and, not least, a large number of international non-governmental organisations.
The European Union emphatically condemns slavery in all its forms, including, as the concept does today, alongside traditional slavery and the slave trade, such things as serious violations of the rights of children and of women, the exploitation of certain dependency situations, and apartheid.
Mr Van Hecke is quite right to emphasise in his report that the events of 11 September manifest new forms of terrorism.
Despite the urgent need for action, it is most important to counter-terrorism in all its aspects that we ourselves and our allies strictly maintain the values of international human rights and of humanitarian law.
The European Union is founded on respect for human rights, and this is true both of internal affairs policy within Europe and of Europe's policy in foreign affairs.
The debate is closed.
and resumed at 9 p.m.) The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0109/2002) by Mr Wynn, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the Draft Amending Budget 2/2002 of the European Union for the financial year 2002 (7033/2002 - C5-0131/2002 - 2002/2043(BUD)).
Hence you have the Wynn report on Supplementary and Amending Budget No 2.
The Member States, quite rightly, want the money back that was not spent last year.
One thing that has been made clear to us is that in next year's budget there could be shortfalls, especially in the Structural Funds, where the Category 2 expenditure on payments may well have to be exceeded.
Consequently, the Member States will not receive ten billion back, but something in the region of EUR 5.5 billion.
The Council and certain Member States have queried the legality of the amendment and our right to do this.
We have done similar things since 1994, which have never been challenged by the Council, because it recognises that, at the end of the day, it is the Treaty that counts, and the Treaty gives Parliament the final say on the budget when the President signs the budget.
We have asked the Commission for information on how the money can be spent, whether it can be spent in time or whether all of it can be spent.
For those trying to read between the lines, I hope that message is pretty clear, because this is not just about this particular SAB.
Another aspect here is that some Member States, including my own, will say that there will be a hole in their own budgets.
In any event, Mr President, Commissioner, colleagues from the Committee on Budgets and everybody else interested in budgetary affairs, the Wynn report - which was previously the Costa Neves report and which will very shortly be the Podestà report, which means that it will be one of the most well-agreed and negotiated reports of this whole legislative period - contains some very interesting points for Parliament to discuss.
Firstly, and this is an issue which affects the Commission, as our chairman Terry Wynn has pointed out, we should ask ourselves why so many amending and supplementary budgets are needed, since they very often entail administrative costs because a new procedure has to be undertaken and, above all, because these distort and devalue the annual budgetary procedure, as we all know, because we have discussed this many times.
It would be preferable for us to restrict in some way this possibility of making so many amending budgets.
What is more, this Parliament, as you are well aware, is totally prepared to defend its rights so that amending budgets continue to exist in the current procedure, in their current form and with Parliament's current rights.
We are talking in this case about a budget of balances, an enormous budget and surplus.
A budgetary surplus in national budgetary policy is a good thing, it is a saving.
From the Structural Funds or the Leonardo programmes to the external action programmes, they cover the whole range of budgetary needs for payments.
Political life is a life of negotiation.
I am sure that, in any event, the task of the three institutions this remaining month before the second part-session in May, in which we will make a definitive decision, will be a month of much negotiation and we are of course all very optimistic in this regard.
As has already been said far more than once, with this Supplementary and Amending Budget we will be talking about EUR 10 billion, and the EUR 2 billion that have as good as been announced are yet to be put in front of us.
We must, though, remember that at the end of last year we repaid EUR 1.2 billion, whether on a one-off basis or in anticipation, which means that for this one year we are talking about over EUR 13 billion in unused resources.
Supplementary and Amending Budgets can be talked about and looked at from many different angles, this one being one of them.
We in Parliament intend to amend the Supplementary and Amending Budget in such a way that a substantial amount does not go straight back to the Member States.
The Supplementary and Amending Budget before us includes two important matters: the new basis for collecting the own resources, and carrying over last year's surplus to cover this year's budget.
Germany's annual contribution will fall by around EUR 847 million, that of the Netherlands by EUR 505 million, and that of Sweden and Austria by around EUR 140 million.
Italy's contribution will increase by approximately EUR 757 million and that of France by EUR 458 million.
The reason for this underutilization is first and foremost Commission bureaucracy.
The procedure whereby decisions are taken is confused and vague.
However, there is another side to the matter: the Member States, which are constantly asking for more money for structural actions and which, on the eve of enlargement, are fighting tough political battles in order not to lose Community structural support for their citizens, have been unable to implement the commitments undertaken and have not asked for payments which have already been appropriated.
Clearly, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is fairly universal and it is one that needs urgent resolution, for it is an offence to our fellow citizens and genuinely exposes us to the ridicule of a public which is becoming increasingly less disposed to understand and increasingly more liable, on the other hand, to let itself be influenced by summary criticism.
Yet, this problem, because of the fact that such a considerable amount was not spent, is a serious problem, it is not possible to simply ask us for a full discharge, perhaps a blank cheque, without even giving it some thought, without even asking the questions that we are asking this evening.
The 2000 settlement presented a surplus in the payment forecasts of some EUR 11 billion; that for 2001 could end up at around EUR 14 billion, a surplus that will, logically, lighten Member States' contributions in years to come.
Suffice it to say that the approval of the Community Support Framework for objective 1 regions took place in October 2000, with regard to Spain, and this decision is the prerequisite for cofinancing.
The rate of implementation dropped 10 points in relation to the previous year and, with regard to the total intended for objective 1 regions, it dropped 6 points.
Faced with enlargement, it should be improved to allow better financial management of the programmes for obvious reasons: because regional policy is at the heart of the European project and is fundamental for the progress of the integration process, and because it is a key instrument that enjoys the widest consensus.
Similar problems, but involving lower figures, arise in headings 3 and 4: consumption of payments in external actions in 2001 also dropped 5 points in relation to the previous year - to be specific, initiatives promoting democracy and human rights only reached 56% of the anticipated payments.
Firstly, the Commission should improve its working systems both in the preparatory phase and in the execution phase.
In this regard, the difficulties in payments anticipated for 2003 should be resolved satisfactorily.
Secondly, the Council should understand that Parliament exercises its competencies as budgetary authority with all that this implies and that this modified amending budget means that, even when, with regard to own resources, Parliament is not on an equal footing with the Council, in this and in other areas that are currently being discussed, what citizens are asking for is a stable institutional balance and a dialogue which obtains practical results, because there are no other alternatives that would produce improved benefits for all.
It is because there is a great need for structural funding to be spent in our various countries and regions.
What we are doing now is giving the Member States the chance to get their act together and to spend this money, to help improve the environment, working conditions and employment prospects throughout our European Union.
It is very important indeed for us to make sure that the countries spend this money, to allow the private sector to get its act together because, at the end of 2006, with enlargement, we, the existing fifteen countries, will lose the ability to have structural funding.
The other five or ten countries coming into the European Union will demand structural funding for their countries.
I therefore urge every single government throughout the European Union to use this money, use it effectively and use it quickly.
The Supplementary and Amending Budget also comprises several elements, namely, firstly, the surplus from last year and secondly the implementation of the new own resources decision, which has various constituent parts.
What this means in real terms is that some of the present Member States had to pay higher contributions than they would have to under the new own resources decision.
Still in connection with the surplus, there are two other things I would like to mention.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Article 3 of the Treaty stipulates that the European Community wishes to eliminate all inequality and promote equality between men and women.
However, the situation still leaves a great deal to be desired, certainly in the area of development cooperation.
This report was approved unanimously in the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.
In countries where there is less gender inequality, there is also less poverty.
Investing in girls seems to result in lower levels of child mortality and mortality among women, creates better food safety and means an improvement in the fight against poverty.
I can identify with the three main points which the Commission outlines, namely the analysis and integration of the gender aspect within the priority fields of Community development cooperation, the horizontal integration of the gender aspect in projects and programmes, and the development of an internal gender capacity in the European Community itself.
These three points, and particularly the last one, are extremely important.
The fact that women are people who are entitled to quality of life in their own right and, as such, can, and should, be able to lay claim to civil rights, political rights and human rights, is still too much overlooked in my view.
I welcome the intention of deciding in favour of an interim evaluation, and I hope that the Commission will involve the European Parliament in this in good time.
Finally, the Regulation in question lapses in 2003.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have here the annual report, presented by the Commission, to analyse the progress made with regard to equal opportunities for men and women in the European Union in the year 2000.
Only 20% of women participate in this sector and this is something that we should promote, making sure that they can have access to lifelong training in this area, since the jobs of the future will rely heavily on the society built around these new technologies.
There is a very noticeable absence of women in managerial positions, in companies, associations, political parties and in public institutions.
We repeatedly call for increased participation of women in these jobs, a better balance between men and women, but we still notice a difficulty in achieving the presence of women in decision-making posts.
Therefore, we call for innovative measures and specific actions aimed at better representation for women in all areas of employment, in the professional field, with better task-sharing between men and women, and improved reconciliation between professional and family life.
We must monitor compliance with the Community objective of equality between men and women in programmes financed by European funds, pursuant to the Treaty, and to promote a greater participation of women in decision-making posts.
These objectives will also be taken into account in the EU enlargement process, monitoring the incorporation of the Community acquis into the national legislations of candidate countries.
Domestic violence and poor treatment and exploitation of women is still a very serious problem and an area in which we need to continue working in order to help victims and eradicate, where possible, the causes of these phenomena, such as poverty and insecurity.
Mr President, there are two important reports on this evening's agenda.
Gender awareness is in the meantime becoming accepted among some decision-makers, and we know that sustainable development must first begin with women.
Mr President, these are two very different reports we are debating here today but, where both reports are concerned, the fact is that, if no really major changes are made - in relation both to the developing countries and to the position of women in the countries of the western world, including the EU - then we can forget all about equality.
The methods required are, of course, completely different, however, and I should like to thank the two rapporteurs, precisely because it is clear from the reports that it is different initiatives that are required.
In connection with the developing countries, I would highlight paragraphs 10, 11, 12 and 14 of the report which indicate, for example, the need to look more closely at religious, cultural and socio-economic traditions and the role they play in relation to women in the developing countries.
The next headline therefore says: 'A female-friendly state can make a significant investment in the future'.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs for their very sound reports, on which I would also congratulate them.
I would also like to agree with the other speakers who have highlighted a few specific points in these reports.
I believe therefore that the gender aspect of poverty and violence are important points.
And it is important to emphasise that these reports allude to this and that we must, in my view, defend this particular point.
We must also defend ourselves at a time when, in my country, a candidate standing in the presidential elections is contemplating making women stay at home - he has said this and he has written this.
Mr President, we are debating two very important reports on women's rights today.
However, serious problems persist even in democratic Europe, such as violence against women in its various manifestations, domestic violence, sexual violence, violence in the workplace.
The fact that some 500 000 women are bought and sold in the European Union every year is a blatant violation of fundamental rights; the European Union has still not woken up to this and, more to the point, it has still not taken specific measures to combat this phenomenon.
The fact is, the European job market is still fragmented along gender lines, women's salaries are much lower than men's, only 25% of businesses belong to women and women are kept below the glass ceiling and out of responsible managerial and decision-making positions; all examples of violations and discrimination against women.
Mr van den Bos has just pointed out that conditions for women in the developing countries are appalling for a variety of reasons.
That is something which applies to both developing and industrialised countries and within both the EU and its Member States.
As the rapporteurs have already said, although the 2000 report does record some progress, it reveals a Europe which is still a hostile environment for women and which is, in many respects, a long way from achieving the goal of equal opportunities: the female unemployment rate is higher than the male unemployment rate, the employment rate is still a long way off the goal set at Lisbon, the labour market is still segregated, women continue to be heavily under-represented in positions of responsibility and, above all, there is a pay gap which is frankly scandalous considering that this is Europe in the third millennium.
With regard to the pay gap between men and women, the under-representation of women in positions of responsibility and the balanced participation of women and men in decision-making processes, we need to be more forceful in making everyone - the social partners, the political organisations, the institutions and the Member States - shoulder their responsibilities, and we should maybe introduce more effective instruments that provide better incentives than those used hitherto.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to use this speech to dwell on depictions of the disadvantages under which women labour in developing countries or elsewhere, which have often been described.
The Commission is pursuing the implementation of the principle of gender mainstreaming - and, indeed, so is Parliament, as the two rapporteurs have reiterated.
It is also, let it be added, in Europe's interest, for if we support the empowerment of women in the developing countries, that forms part of the emancipation of the European area and will also in part alleviate the problems we still have to deal with today.
The annual report on equal opportunities for women and men in the EU has, ever since it first appeared in 1996, been to some extent our flagship publication in the area of gender equality.
The report informs the public about progress made in the field of equal opportunities, and is of course at the same time a means of monitoring the Commission's strategy of involving gender issues in all the EU's policies and in all its programmes.
I am able to inform you today that the 2001 annual report will incorporate a statistical annex on this subject.
I would like, though, to point out that the Commission took the step of setting up its Equal Opportunities Group in order to make equal opportunities a primary issue in our institution as well.
The conference, which is to be held in Spain on 14 and 15 June this year, is being organised by the Spanish Presidency in close cooperation with the Commission and with financial support from it.
The annual report may well also contribute towards this, and the programme of action also makes available resources for measures to raise awareness.
Gender equal opportunities, being a mainstream issue in our action programme, covers all six priority fields of development cooperation by the European Community.
For example, you have proposed that part of the administrative budget should be earmarked for compulsory staff training on equal opportunities issues.
In item 16, you call for gender auditing of the Budget, that is, the assessment of public budgets in terms of their effects and influences on one or other gender.
Thank you, Commissioner.
I was happy that we in Parliament have done some good work on this directive on the EU's employment policy.
We wanted greater transparency surrounding employment policy and the more active involvement of local authorities and both sides of industry.
We wanted better opportunities for the individual citizen to become familiar with and to understand this policy, for it is of course at the end of the day the citizens, or electorate, who have to assess whether their national governments are up to scratch on employment policy.
We wanted to promote employment policy at local and regional levels through more information about local employment plans, through exchanges of experience concerning good practice and through demands that, in their national action plans, countries report on how local authorities can be involved in employment policy.
Moreover, a conciliation has now successfully been brought about which fulfils Parliament's demands on these important points.
I would also thank the Council and the Commission for their efforts and helpfulness, which have now ensured that we have ended up with a good result.
We are therefore also very satisfied with the declaration attached by the Commission to the agreement on incentive measures.
In the declaration, the Commission promises to secure this link and fully to inform Parliament and the Council both of the priorities chosen within the framework of Article 6 under the European Social Fund and, especially, of the local activities to which quite large amounts will be allocated over the next couple of years.
Parliament had proposed a higher amount than the Commission's proposal of EUR 55 million, and we of course wanted the Commission to make an additional contribution, so it was natural to ask for more money.
However, we have now received assurances from the Commission that the additional input of information can be achieved within the EUR 55 million, and that is therefore something we are relying on.
They have obtained a tool for participating in the work on the other important objectives of EU employment policy: reducing exclusion from the labour market, ensuring that we are flexible and competitive and ensuring that it becomes possible better to combine working life and family life.
In the Minutes of the Turin European Council we notice that, if Europe were to advance only in the economic and monetary fields, its success would not be guaranteed - I am quoting from memory here - because we would be forgetting the most important thing Europe has: its citizens.
To involve European citizens in the process of European integration, the European Union has to take a greater interest in their concerns.
An example of this appears in the introduction to Title VIII of the Treaty, with regard to employment, following Amsterdam, with an important reference made in Luxembourg, as well as the 2000 Lisbon European Council, where the conversion to a competitive and dynamic knowledge-based society that can grow in an economically-sustainable fashion with more and better jobs and better social cohesion was set as a new strategic objective for the European Union, and therefore to achieve the conditions for full employment.
For these reasons, I believe that this Parliament and Council decision on Community measures to stimulate employment seeks to noticeably improve cooperation with Member States in analysis and research in the field of employment and the implementation of these results in the labour market.
It also seeks to coordinate employment policies within the general Lisbon and Barcelona objectives and to apply an information and transparency policy as a response to the aspirations of European citizens to be well informed on European employment strategy, in which they place great hopes.
It also intends to support the Member States' efforts to evaluate their action plans, exchange experiences and good practices, carry out a follow-up to the employment strategy, particularly through the European employment survey, involving the various players to a greater extent, from the authorities to those seeking work, and to rationalise and guarantee coherence in order to avoid duplicating actions and of course expenditure.
I think therefore that we are dealing with an important decision full of good content and good intentions which hopes to rationalise and optimise European employment strategy and which will constitute a step forward in the process of European integration for all European citizens.
Unemployment is unfortunately too high in Europe, but we do in fact have documentary evidence that a coordinated employment policy produces far more jobs than is the case when an individual country pursues its own policy without taking account of what is happening in neighbouring countries.
The incentive measures on which conciliation has now been achieved are specifically designed to support and strengthen cooperation on employment in the EU.
I think that the outcome of the conciliation is commendable in many ways.
It is important that employment policy not only be something that is conducted in offices and in more or less secret meetings of the Council of Ministers.
That is why it is also so incredibly encouraging that the local dimension of employment policy has successfully been given a still more prominent place.
That is something encouraging, I think, precisely because we have reached a phase in which we are to point out and demonstrate to people that employment policy does in fact work and that the open coordination method has something specific to offer.
Employment strategies in numerous countries are inefficient, resulting in long-term unemployment and the social problems that go with it.
The approved proposal provides an excellent framework for making use of efficient employment policies; all we need is good cooperation between the Member States, the European Commission, the social partners and all the social agencies involved.
We particularly welcome the fact that the approved proposal gives us an opportunity to inform public opinion and agencies at local and regional level.
The measures included in the decision we are discussing today are important funding instruments for achieving the strategic objective set at the Lisbon Summit, and the decision will, indeed, serve to increase cooperation between the Member States on labour market policies.
The gamble of implementing the European employment strategy through open coordination in recent years has started to pay off.
That is why the European Parliament persisted in calling for all the information measures aimed at raising public awareness, particularly the awareness of those who can benefit from this strategy, to be implemented and therefore to be set forth in this decision.
The partnership, which has already been used to implement other initiatives and has proved to be an extraordinary, effective involvement tool, must become a traditional, standard method of working in the field of employment too.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes the accord that has now been reached on this important resolution, and would like to thank both Parliament and the Council for their willingness to compromise.
The text adopted will lead to an action programme not only reflecting the aspirations of both co-legislators, but also putting on a firm foundation the measures that the Commission intends to implement in order to accompany the European Employment Strategy.
The Commission especially welcomes the agreement on a proactive and transparent information policy enabling Europe's citizens to be made more aware of the Employment Strategy's successes.
The Commission particularly welcomes the extension of the Employment Strategy's scope from national to local level.
The Commission undertakes to implement this programme strictly as Parliament intended.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The Council and Parliament have succeeded in reaching agreement on a ground-breaking new directive.
It is not something we knew all along that we would obtain, but all European countries are now obliged to take the problem of shocks and vibrations completely seriously.
It is precisely this method which, on the one hand, provides flexibility and, on the other hand, attaches a very great deal of importance to prevention in preference to actual orders and bans.
The cooperation has been very constructive, and we have in actual fact ended up with a result that we can all be proud of.
For this reason we are particularly delighted that the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee on 8 April has taken into account the difficulties in applying this directive encountered by a large number of, mainly small, companies, and also by many economic sectors in the search for a compromise on limit values and on the implementation deadline for the requirements imposed by the new directive on companies.
I feel we have to welcome the fact that the Member States can have a longer period of time, until 2010, to apply the precautionary measures, as well as special consideration for the agricultural and forestry sectors, which in many Member States include a collection of small and very small companies, which have longer still to implement the measures, until 2014.
I would like to finish, therefore, by congratulating the rapporteur, the Commission, Parliament, the Council, and above all, all the workers affected, because from today they will have an instrument in defence of their health.
Mr President, I would prefer that we would have had no directive whatsoever on whole-body vibration, because even the ISO Standard report says there is no quantitative link between whole-body vibration and lower back pain.
The PPE-DE Group suggested 0.8 m/s2.
This instrument introducing measures to protect workers from risks in the workplace arising from vibration represents an important step in the improvement of workers' health and safety.
All workers in the Community are now ensured a minimum level of protection, which the individual Member States are able to go beyond.
I am relying on Parliament and the Council to start work shortly on the regulations on the other two physical agents - optical and electromagnetic radiation - so that we can at length complete the legal framework for these important aspects of health and safety at work.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
