Debate on the future of Europe (debate) The next item is the debate on the future of Europe, with the participation of the Irish Prime Minister, member of the European Council.
Taoiseach, in a few weeks time, in the new year, our Parliament will adopt Irish as the twenty-first official language.
That Treaty of Nice was rejected by the Irish people in a referendum in 2001.
But the Irish Prime Minister took on the challenge of carrying out an intensive public information campaign and, as a result, in the second referendum held 18 months later, in 2002, Ireland approved the Treaty of Nice.
The European Parliament was delighted and congratulated him enthusiastically.
Then he held the Presidency of the European Council during the Intergovernmental Conference on the Constitutional Treaty, in June 2004.
It is therefore a privilege to have you here with us and to hear your views on how the European Union can move beyond the impasse it is currently in.
I wish you every success, Mr President, for the remainder of your term of office.
Explaining Europe to the public remains probably our greatest challenge, at both European and national level.
Therefore, Mr President, I particularly welcome and look forward to this discussion and to discussions with you in the days ahead.
You will be visiting a country that has benefited enormously from its membership of the European Union.
Europe provided invaluable assistance to us at a critical period in our national development.
For our own people in Europe, as we approach the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, it means consolidating and developing our extraordinary Union - a Union which has been so successful that many now take its success for granted.
The wider world increasingly looks to Europe for leadership, for support and for the promotion of our values.
These challenges have not been dreamed up in Brussels or Strasbourg: they have risen up the Union's agenda because they are very real and directly relevant to all our citizens.
The Union, in approaching these issues, is rightly pursuing two broad parallel tracks.
Both of these tracks are essential.
Second, the process which led to the agreement of the constitutional treaty was long, complex and difficult.
The process leading to agreement was a comprehensive and inclusive one.
In moving forward, we must ensure that the basis for progress must be an inclusive one in which the concerns and views of all are taken into account, including the legitimate concerns expressed by the citizens in many Member States.
First, we must continue to work to change the context in which we will return to consider the constitutional treaty.
Fourth, the presentation, the length and, in some respects, the nature of the constitutional treaty could also be amended significantly without affecting its basic substance and balance.
The treaty remains important for Europe, for our people and for those who look to our values.
More people are in work.
I have repeatedly stressed to my colleagues in the European Council and to the Commission that Europe is increasingly in competition not within itself but with other parts of the world, notably Asia.
The test of Europe's credibility today is whether it can deliver policies which build up solidarity within the European Union and secure opportunities for all our people.
At both European and national level, we must engage the social partners, in particular the trade unions, in a real debate on the reform of the European social model and on the modernisation of labour markets.
Of course, the responsibility in many of these areas falls significantly on the Member States.
We have to show that the European social model remains at the heart of increased competitiveness.
We need to act, but we also need to explain what Europe is doing and can do to provide security for our citizens.
Whether it is your political family that is in power or our own - the last of your Prime Ministers from ours was John Bruton, who is now our ambassador in Washington - Ireland's profound commitment to European integration is manifest, and your speech today made that clear once more.
We now have to think about the future of Europe, and Prime Minister Ahern mentioned 25 March, which marks fifty years of the Treaties of Rome.
I see the Berlin statement - a joint statement by the European Council, the European Parliament and the Commission - as a good opportunity to tell the citizens of the European Union that we, the European institutions - even though our opinions may well differ on one thing or another - are united in our determination to lead the European Union into a bright future.
Speaking on behalf of our group, and in particular of the PPE element in it, I can say that we do of course insist on this House participating in any such conference - effectively, powerfully, and efficiently - and we ask, Prime Minister, for your support in this.
I would like to make it quite clear, speaking on behalf of our group, and particularly of the European People's Party element in it, that we do not want to start again from the very beginning - it would be quite wrong to talk in terms of 'new negotiations' - but want as much as possible of the substance of the constitutional treaty to be retained, particularly as regards the reforms in Part 1 and the section dealing with values in the Charter.
You have affirmed your belief in that, and for that we are grateful to you.
Those concerns are many and varied, but to my mind they hinge around responses to the challenges of the world in which we live.
We are creating a global economy without forging a comparable global social contract.
The tools to solve these problems are at our disposal in a common foreign and security policy and a justice and home affairs policy, but they lie unemployed.
This is where Ireland can play such an important part, Prime Minister, not only because of the role you played in the Convention, or your experience of adverse referendum, but because of Ireland's role in looking for what you called a return to the balance and the substance of the constitutional treaty, and in working together with Portugal and Slovenia.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Ahern, re-election puts one in a good mood; perhaps that is the reason why my group has asked me to speak today, so that I might not be a mild-mannered group chairman.
I have to tell you, Prime Minister, that it was only the governments - and not the people of Europe - who were irritated by the idea that this political community should be endowed with a constitution.
Forcing through the actual policies in the way you propose will fail, precisely because of this crisis of confidence in Europe, this crisis of European democracy.
It is one thing to ask what we bring with us, but considering what we are to do with it, how a shared political identity can be fashioned out of it, is a process that cannot be run as a sideline and certainly not on the basis of people being told the same thing over and over again, that being that they have not yet understood what good we are trying to do.
There is, in fact, no point in us discussing this or that while people experience the precise opposite, as we have seen from the debate in Brussels about the Volkswagen workers, and in assorted other areas too.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (GA) Mr President, it is a great honour for me to extend a warm welcome to the Taoiseach here to the European Parliament today.
In nearly ten years in the European Council he has seen many leaders come and go, but he has also seen many of the crises that people previously thought would rent the European Union apart and found solutions for them, in particular concerning the agreement on the constitutional treaty.
This requires greater investment in research and development, greater use of innovation and technology and, I must stress, greater collaboration between universities and research institutes in the European Union through the European institute of technology.
He spoke about the peace process in Northern Ireland and the importance of the European Union's role in that regard, not only in economic and financial terms but also in the model and vision it provided.
Taoiseach, your government has cultivated Ireland's image in Europe as a success story, the once poor nation made good, but this House deserves to know what lies behind this so-called success.
The European Parliament's participation in the IGC during the Irish Presidency was extremely important and constructive.
The European Parliament was clearly very much part of it and it clearly should be involved in taking the process forward.
Your issue about the reforms of Part I and the values and getting ourselves ready for the challenges in the future are all things that I readily agree with.
We have to remember that there are 16 or 17 countries that are committed to ratifying the Constitution: the majority of the parties, particularly the three large parties in our Parliament have clearly stated their support for it.
That is a lot in our budget, but we are moving towards that fast, and we are doing that to help not only our own people but also the less well-of in various parts of the world.
However, I accept your point: 13 months on is a long time, but there are still reasons for voting.
The reasons why we need a Union that can continually cater for new members - now 27 and in a few years' time possibly 30 - and our new neighbourhood policy were outlined in the Nice and Amsterdam Treaties.
That applies to members of the European Council - I would accept that criticism - and I think it applies to Members of the European Parliament.
I think these are great issues.
A mini-treaty will give us a mini-Europe, when we need a strong, democratic Europe capable of coping with the global challenges we all face.
Since the veto has a paralysing effect in the area of security, Member States increasingly resort to informal arrangements, thereby ducking both national and European parliamentary control in a kind of parallel, opaque and undemocratic decision-making structure.
Prime Minister Ahern is probably right in saying that it is better to improve the Constitution by adding bits to it rather than by reducing it to its bare bones.
The European Union is in a phase of transition, continued expansion, new cultures, new ideas and new challenges.
Taoiseach, we must do the same in Ireland, and this means succeeding in our peace process, ending partition, building strong public services and promoting equality in every aspect of life.
We in Sinn Féin, and our colleagues in the GUE/NGL Group, are committed to ensuring that the future of Europe is based on principles of democracy, equality and solidarity. (GA) Mr President, I extend a warm welcome to the Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern, to the European Parliament.
Thank you very much. (EL) Mr President, Mr Prime Minister of Ireland, if I were an artist and I was asked to draw the future of Europe, I would use black paint.
We may have laws in Europe, but we have no national conscience.
We may have capital but we do not have sufficient development.
We may have a great deal of land, but we have no borders.
There is oil which can resolve all of Europe's problems.
The Institutions - the Council, Parliament and the Commission - are in favour of a new model of Europe: we need to find out whether this new model is in line with what the voters want, voters who, at least in France and the Netherlands, have rejected the proposals made by the Convention.
The United States grew from 13 to 50 States, keeping the same Constitution more or less unchanged since 1776.
At the same time, however, there is a sense in which the future has been put on ice until the second half of 2008, which is when the reflection period for the Constitutional Treaty is due to end after being extended for a second time.
In essence, the EU must manage the challenge of globalisation for all its citizens.
If the EU can deliver on this major task, then I believe it has a solid future. (GA) Mr President, I also welcome the Taoiseach to the European Parliament today.
That is our vision in Sinn Féin and the vision of our partners in the GUE/NGL Group.
If the EU wants to remain credible in the eyes of its citizens and to safeguard its future, then Europe must send out a strong signal and cease the accession negotiations with Ankara with immediate effect. (EL) Mr President, Prime Minister, I too shall take my turn in congratulating you on your presence here today.
I think that all of us here in this Chamber agree that the European Union of the 25 today and of the 27 in a month's time cannot function with the same rules as the Europe of the 6, the 9, the 10 or the 15 Member States functioned.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights, the popular participation aspects, the democratic aspects - all these things belong together.
I would like to see you deliver this speech not only in this House, but also in many of the capitals in the EU.
It is the Parliament that voted by 500 votes to 137 to endorse this constitutional treaty as the best way forward for the future of Europe.
We must find a solution acceptable to all 27 countries, including the two that voted 'no', but also taking account of the 18 that have voted 'yes', which will wish to keep the text as intact as possible.
In the UK too, my Government signed the constitutional treaty and was re-elected on the basis of a manifesto that said that it would campaign with enthusiasm for this constitutional treaty.
It is not always possible to listen to all the people, but in that case you can listen to their elected representatives.
I have also had an opportunity to give my views.
When you are trying to get 25 countries - as it was then - to agree, there have to be compromises in the text.
You cannot have a Constitution that is negotiated by 500 million people.
However, they also want to see that those who are involved in criminality across borders and those who are engaged in criminal activity are dealt with.
The issue then is to try to get protocols to deal with the issues, that is the sensible thing: not throwing away parts of the Constitution that have been agreed upon by Parliament, by the Council, by 18 countries across Europe, but to try to find and accommodate the difficulties and analyse what the difficulties are in those countries which have voted 'no', or perhaps others which have reservations.
I think that is possible.
The debate is closed.
