It takes a firm line on human rights abuses in Jammu and Kashmir.
I have with me a strong statement - of this morning - by Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto, Chairperson of the Pakistan People's Party, in which she welcomes this report for drawing attention to the right of self-determination of the Kashmiri people; for reaffirming the EU's commitment to the settlement of dispute by peaceful means; for taking note of the impact of the earthquake and urging the European Union to help and support the Kashmiris; for supporting the role of the composite peace process in moving towards a durable settlement for the Kashmiris based on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights; for urging the Indian and Pakistan Governments to facilitate the ceasefire on the Line of Control by calling further on militant armed groups to enrol in a disarmament, demobilisation and rehabilitation process; for encouraging the Pakistan Government to transform the ceasefire in place in Siachin since 2003 into a lasting peace agreement; for urging both governments to allow international human rights organisations immediate and unrestricted access to all parts of the former princely state in order to investigate the human rights situation there; for calling on the Indian Government to put an end to all practices of extrajudicial killings, 'disappearances', torture and arbitrary detentions in Jammu and Kashmir; for calling on the Indian and Pakistani authorities to ease restrictions on travel between Srinagar and Muzaffarabad; for urging Pakistan to revisit its concepts of fundamental rights of freedom of expression, freedom of association, freedom of religious practices in Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit and Baltistan; for calling for the first-ever elections to be held in Gilgit and Baltistan and for seeking higher democratic representation in the Northern Areas.
The plight of the Kashmiri people has been of concern to the international community for nearly 60 years.
Subsequently, many thousands of citizens of Azad Jammu and Kashmir have held meetings and pledged their full support for the report.
The report is strong on human rights in Jammu and Kashmir, as in the other areas.
The report makes clear its support for the current peace process.
Madam President, I followed with great interest the very lively debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Kashmir report by Baroness Nicholson.
The European Union has expressed its firm support for the reconciliation process between India and Pakistan.
I would like to say a few words about the terrible earthquake that struck Kashmir on the morning of 8 October 2005 and which, as Baroness Nicholson's report describes, had a devastating impact on the lives of the Kashmiris on both sides of the Line of Control, especially in Pakistan-administered Kashmir and the North West Frontier Province.
The European Commission responded to this tragedy by providing humanitarian aid of EUR 48 million and by committing, in December 2005, a EUR 50 million programme on 'Earthquake Recovery and Reconstruction support to Pakistan', which covers rehabilitation of education and health facilities in the affected areas, an emergency education programme and community-based livelihood recovery schemes.
The Commission's reconstruction programme will be implemented over a period of five years.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, the tragic and bloody dispute over the beautiful Himalayan territory of the former princely state of Kashmir between the two great south-Asian countries of India and Pakistan is one of the oldest in the world, going right back to UN Security Council resolutions 39 and 47 of 1948.
I, and many colleagues, warmly welcomed in 2005 the launching of a bus service across the line of control between Srinagar and Muzaffarabad allowing divided families to be reunited after nearly 60 years, and it is my hope that, eventually, the borders, including the line of control, will be just a line on the map and become increasingly irrelevant.
A similar future vision of a south-Asian economic community by 2025 will require free trade across the line of control.
This very much reminds me of the dispute between Germany and France over the Alsace-Lorraine region - where this sitting is being held.
This commitment must continue.
I wish to thank the rapporteur for her courage in including quite a few things in her report.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (HU) First of all, I would like to congratulate Baroness Nicholson for the comprehensive and important report.
Therefore she deserves all our respect, and I support the report.
The conflict is not simply a question of boundaries.
This goes some way to explaining the problems of the past 60 years.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, the theme of the Kashmir-EU week in early June will be 'peace building in Kashmir', and it is an important initiative given the human rights violations in that region, where the need for help on both sides of the border is highlighted not least by the actions of militant groups both in the Indian states of Jammu and Kashmir and in the Pakistani part Azad Kashmir.
It is important that European aid be offered to all victims within Kashmir.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Madam President, it goes without saying that the European Union will need to make a meaningful contribution in order to support the peace process in Kashmir.
It has thus become not just a British problem, but is seen increasingly as a European one, as our debate this morning shows.
There has been a request for further funds from the Government of Azad Kashmir, but I understand that they have not yet had a full reply, therefore Amendment 41 is asking for a clear reply from the Commission so that we know what we have to do in budgetary terms.
The last aspect refers to demilitarisation and that is why we have tabled Amendment 55 together with Mrs Lambert.
The article in The Economist of 7 April was very clear and I commend it to the House.
When I was in Kashmir in March at the same time as the Commissioner, I saw an AJK more open than ever before; the Indians willing to talk with the secessionists and both governments optimistic about their composite dialogue and when that bomb on a train from New Delhi to Lahore killed 68 people in February, the politics of blame was replaced by a mutual solidarity to defeat the terrorists who had planted it.
In this report, I regret to say we have seen a rapporteur who claimed to uphold the principle of primum non nocere - do no harm - yet she has done only harm.
This tragedy offered India and Pakistan a window of opportunity to make peace out of disaster.
We must, however, insist that they are explored through full consultation with the Kashmiris and, if the conditions are right, we must support their desire to determine their destiny through a democratic plebiscite.
The EU, through its trade and economic relations with both India and Pakistan, must protect the most vulnerable in the short term and secure their livelihoods in the long term.
Hence our Amendments 18 and 56, tabled with colleagues from ALDE Group, are of crucial importance for us.
One of the issues that has most divided the Members of this House has been the question of a plebiscite.
Therefore, I strongly welcome the confidence-building measures that both India and Pakistan have committed themselves to in the past few years.
Amendment 18 calls for the Kashmiri people to exercise their right to self-determination through a plebiscite in the future.
Hence Amendment 57.
However, no solution can be achieved without the Kashmiri people having the final say themselves. - (PL) Madam President, from the point of view of international human rights organisations, Kashmir has been one of the most volatile places on the map for the last 56 years.
Human rights organisations report that, since the Mujahadin insurrection in 1989, over 30 000 civilians have died in Kashmir.
The European Union has to take part in spreading and promoting democracy by all possible means, especially in areas which have been affected by armed religious or racial conflict for many years.
At the moment, in view of the talks that are being held between India and Pakistan on the issue of Kashmir and which are, unfortunately, unlikely to end in success, we need the European Union to show a strong will to support the civilian population in Kashmir.
India, Pakistan and Kashmir do not constitute a traditional issue for me as a Swedish Social Democrat and Member of the European Parliament, but I felt very committed when I read the first draft and heard different parties' representatives, mainly from the United Kingdom, engage in debate.
Our task is not to live in the past or to adopt a position in favour of, or against, India and Pakistan.
But it is important - and this is where the rapporteur is very clear in her report - that the key to resolving this conflict is very much in the political aspirations of the people of both sides and of both countries.
The European Union will continue to support the reconciliation process between India and Pakistan and, for its part, the Commission is fully prepared to continue to provide assistance to the region through its different cooperation programmes and, in reply to Mr Elles, we have already decided on EUR 50 million for reconstruction work, which we think will take a few years.
This programme will also help restore economic development and good governance in the two countries.
The debate is closed.
India must reduce the suffocating impact of its troops in Kashmir and Pakistan must continue to tackle terrorism.
