&#160;&#160; The next item is the commemoration of Jean Monnet and the twentieth anniversary of the draft Treaty establishing the European Union (1984 – Rapporteur: Altiero Spinelli).
We mark the 20th anniversary today of the adoption by this European Parliament of the first draft Constitutional Treaty for the European Union and the 25th anniversary of the death of Jean Monnet.
I would like today to celebrate these two leaders of vision whose own leadership showed the will, political determination and capacity to think long, wide and big.
The clarity and the strength of Monnet's vision has proven its worth because it has endured and because, even as we face the challenges of globalisation, that vision still holds true resonance today, rooted as it was and is in humanitarian values and supranational engagement.
His ambition was to break this vicious circle and to establish amongst the states the same relations founded on equality and arbitration that governed relations between individuals in democratic societies.
I would ask Minister Roche to convey that to the President-in-Office of the Council.
He would see representatives of 25 countries and 450 million people sitting side-by-side, striving together for the common welfare of the people of Europe.
He would see a Parliament in which parties operate on a cross-national and sometimes pan-European basis, where representatives from across our continent find as much common cause with colleagues from other countries as they do with their own compatriots.
Like Monnet, Spinelli was a man of vision.
Today we can see that the dream is closer than ever to becoming a reality.
Twenty-five years after his death we continue to build on the foundations he laid.
Spinelli, like Monnet, believed that, without radical positive change, Europe would be condemned to repeat its past fatal errors and endanger its future existence.
In 1947 he suggested that 'nothing is sadder than the fact that the ideal Europe, the cradle of law and liberty, constitutes only part of the geographical area of Europe.
What drove both men was their experience and their abhorrence of war.
Sixty years ago Europe was struggling with the last phase of the most destructive war in its history.
The enlargement of the European Union to 25 Member States is a tribute to the potency of a dream.
It is also a tribute to the endurance and courage of many millions in central and eastern Europe who often suffered for dreaming those dreams aloud.
The Budapest uprising of 1956, the Prague Spring of 1968 and the Baltic singing revolutions of 1990 have contributed to the construction of a Europe at the outset of the 21st century that few Europeans would have dreamed of throughout the previous 2000 years of our troubled history.
The French writer Victor Hugo said in 1849 that a day would come when 'all you nations of the continent, without losing your distinct qualities and glorious individuality, will merge into a higher unity and found the European brotherhood'.
On the 20th anniversary of the adoption by Parliament of Spinelli's draft Constitutional Treaty we must work to agree a new Treaty that will improve the basis for democratic discourse in our Union, that will build on the success of our Union, and that will make the Union more readily understood and effective.
The first major task we face together in the new Union will be to agree the new Constitutional Treaty.
In March we decided to reach agreement at the latest by the June European Council meeting – just six weeks away.
Early agreement on a new Treaty that allows the Union to develop and prosper is the best way to commemorate the work of Jean Monnet and to mark the 20th anniversary of this Parliament's draft Constitution which was presented by Spinelli.
The famous step-by-step policy.
But this simple statement at the same time points to the ultimate destination of this road: Europe, the single, general plan.
Through his own concrete achievements, in particular as the first President of the High Authority of the ECSC and, above all, as the constant and determined inspiration for the subsequent development of European integration.
The Action Committee for a United States of Europe, which he promoted over the course of 20 years, inspired many fertile ideas which have subsequently been put into practice.
Jean Monnet died 25 years ago, just before the first elections which brought Altiero Spinelli to the European Parliament.
Like Monnet, Spinelli offered Europe his vision and his achievements.
I would point out that he was a European Commissioner before becoming an MEP.
Today we are celebrating the twentieth anniversary of the European Parliament’s adoption of the draft Treaty establishing the European Union, usually called, quite rightly, the ‘Spinelli draft’, since Spinelli was not just its rapporteur, but also the inspiration behind it.
With hindsight, we can say without hesitation that without this draft we would not have the draft European Constitutional Treaty today.
Hence, with the draft of 1984 the process began within the Union which led to the successive revisions of the Treaty of Rome, the Single European Act, the Maastricht Treaty, the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Treaty of Nice, and, subsequently, to the constitutional discussions which took place within the framework of the European Convention.
The Spinelli draft was innovative in several respects, eight years before the Treaty of Maastricht advocated the creation of a genuine European Union, based on the European Community.
Various fundamental provisions of the Treaty of Maastricht stem directly from the Spinelli draft, such as those relating to citizenship of the Union, respect for fundamental rights or the introduction of the principle of subsidiarity when allocating and exercising the Union’s competences.
The Treaty of Amsterdam took up the idea of providing for the possibility of imposing sanctions on a State in the event of serious or persistent violation of the democratic principles or fundamental rights upon which we are founded.
There are other provisions which anticipated, 20 years earlier, the draft Constitutional Treaty produced by the Convention.
Finally, we may have to wait for a new phase of European integration to begin in order to introduce certain supplementary provisions.
I would point out, in particular, Article 82 of the Spinelli draft which laid down that when the Treaty had been ratified by a majority of States representing two thirds of the total population of the Union, the governments of the States which had ratified it would meet immediately to reach a common agreement on the procedures and the date of entry into force of the new Treaty, as well as relations with the States which had not yet ratified it.
These two men, who were so different in terms of culture and temperament, worked together throughout the 1950s.
The challenges are different, but the method is still valid.
They pointed out the path to take in order to establish a common European interest and to create institutions capable of expressing and pursuing it through the exercise of joint sovereignty.
While it is true that Monnet and Spinelli had different approaches, different strategies to advance the cause of a united Europe, it is even more true that their ideal was the same and that they both dedicated their lives’ work to it.
The strategy of Jean&#160;Monnet and the great French statesman, Robert&#160;Schuman, for whom he was a valuable adviser, was a strategy based on integrating the production, starting with coal and steel, the economies and the markets of the countries participating in the project, a strategy for the gradual development of European integration.
It was defined as functionalist, aimed to lay tangible foundations for peace in Europe, firstly between France and Germany, and gave rise to the Communities which remained in operation until the Treaty of Maastricht of 1991.
But at critical times, for example in 1955 when, following the failed attempt to create a Europe Defence Community, the integration process seemed to come to a standstill, the efforts of Monnet and Spinelli, although they followed different paths, both headed in the same direction.
Twenty years on, the dream has become a fundamental requirement for the great new Europe.
The constituent process must at last be achieved by approving the draft adopted by the Convention on the Future of Europe.
The draft Constitution is not perfect, but it constitutes common ground established with difficulty between governments and parliaments.
The text of the Convention could be improved but it must not be weakened because, in that case, the newly created Union of 25 would run the risk of grinding to a halt and falling into crisis.
Because without Monnet, the great inspiration in the shadows, the declaration of 9 May 1950, which is the founding act of European construction, could not be understood, and without the declaration there would not have been Franco-German reconciliation and it would not have been possible to reconcile the Europeans.
And without his decisive advocacy of de facto solidarity it would not have been possible to make progress towards a common market, the forerunner to political union.
Also 20 years ago – and this has been pointed out here – this House, which had been democratically elected for the first time, approved the Treaty which we know as the ‘Spinelli Treaty’, whose rapporteur was Spinelli himself.
The ‘Spinelli Treaty’ has been an essential reference for all successive modifications: the Single Act, the Treaties of Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice and, of course, the Treaty drawn up by the Convention.
There is something which unites Monnet and Spinelli, Mr President: both wanted to unite people. ‘Let us unite men’, said Monnet.
And the whole of the ‘Spinelli Treaty’ is full of references to citizens, to people.
I believe – and my friend Dick Roche said this earlier – that they would both feel proud of what we have done over these years, because I believe that the draft Constitutional Treaty is a treaty for people.
And this starts with the first article, which speaks of a Union of States and citizens, and also where it grants the European Parliament full legislative powers and powers of political control, or where it introduces national parliaments, by means of the early warning system.
In our work over 50 years, we have done what both Monnet and Spinelli called for: to unite people.
And allow me to tell you a little secret: as a child, as I was, between Monnet and Spinelli, when I left my country, which in the words of Gil de Biedma was ‘an old inefficient country’, I was faced with a Europe full of walls, the Berlin Wall, the wall of the Pyrenees, the wall of dictatorships, the wall of egotisms and the wall of nationalisms.
At this moment when a wonderful enlargement has taken place, with which we have sewn together two Europes, with which we have realised that project expounded in the declaration of 9 May, I would like to say to the new countries which make up the European Union that they should enjoy their incorporation into the Union just as we Spaniards enjoyed ours, with the prospect of freedoms, prosperity and above all of sharing a common project.
And today the ups and downs of life often make reality much nicer than literature.
I therefore believe that today we must enjoy this wonderful moment, savour it, take pleasure in it.
We have created the Greater Europe, and on this marvellous morning, as I walked towards this Strasbourg palace, I remembered that episode of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe in Valmy, when he suddenly stood up in front of a group of people and, possessed by an extraordinary strength, said: ‘we are witnessing an historic moment, life will never be the same and you will be able to say: we were there’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, just over 20 years ago I had the immense privilege of working closely with Altiero Spinelli when he was the general rapporteur on the draft Treaty that we are commemorating today and I was a young, enthusiastic member of Parliament's secretariat.
I had then led a group of students to Rome to demonstrate outside a European Council meeting in favour of having – novel idea – direct elections to this European Parliament – one of Spinelli's main campaign themes at that time.
So to then work with Spinelli was an immense honour and privilege.
The main challenge after the war must be to bind the countries of Europe together in a structure that develops their common interests and makes war impossible.' That text circulated throughout the anti-fascist resistance movements during the last years of the war and was one of the main motivations, the main ideals, that helped spread the European message at that time, well ahead of the European movements convention in The Hague.
Forty years later Spinelli was here helping Parliament to produce its draft Treaty on European Union.
He was a man with daring methods but willing to build consensus.
He knew that this project was a project of Parliament.
He said: 'This Parliament brings together representatives of all of Europe's main political parties.
We must use that to thrash out a consensus here and the message can then be taken back home to convince our parties and our governments in our countries and create a political momentum that will be irresistible.' He was successful in building up a consensus.
The President of the Council, Leo Tindemans, and the President of the Commission, Gaston Thorn, came to the Committee on Institutional Affairs, as it was then, to ask us not to do it.
Nobody wanted to change the Treaties: the Tindemans report avoided proposing Treaty changes and the Three Wise Men report in 1979 advised against changing the Treaties.
We must ensure that Constitution is adopted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after 17 years as a Member of this European Parliament, I am standing here today, on behalf of the Liberal Group, to deliver what is probably my last speech in a plenary debate.
I am proud, and at the same time thankful, to be here today in a historic place at a historic time.
This is a historic place because the European Parliament is at the heart of democracy in Europe and the only European institution to be elected directly by 450 million European citizens.
Very soon, on 13 June, the peoples of 25 European countries will collectively choose their MEPs at the same time.
Today, Europe is one, reunited in a voluntary, peaceful and sustainable manner on a footing of equality, parity and solidarity.
Today, we are specifically commemorating Jean Monnet, the first thinker, or can I say the first dreamer, of a unified Europe, the architect of the Schuman plan, and the initial founder of the present European Union.
Although our great European dream is not complete, we have made a good deal of progress.
In addition to Jean Monnet, I should also like to pay tribute to all those thousands of others who have helped pave the way and, not least, to the European citizens themselves.
The step we are taking on this journey today should also give renewed impetus to the European integration process, because the lack of a truly political European Union will be even more tangible from today.
If the European Union is to play a real role of any significance in the world, it should stop appearing to be a purely economic alliance and grow into political adulthood.
Indeed, today, we are taking a historic step – a step from division to unity, from threatened conflict to guaranteed peace and stability, a step from socio-economic inequality to sustainable growth and prosperity for all our European citizens.
Congratulations to all in this House, because we have not missed this historic opportunity of a European Union.
I should like to say to these young Members, and to all MEPs: the future of Europe is in your hands.
At that time, Altiero Spinelli made it expressly clear that it was above all the European Parliament that, being legitimised as a European institution by the direct suffrage of the citizens, had the vocation of pressing on with European integration and developing it further.
This message of Spinelli’s may well sound like a bequest, but I see it as still being valid today, and so, in the future too, it should guide this House’s actions as 25 States join in hammering out the co-existence of 450 million people in the European Union, and do so on a basis of solidarity, democratically and socially.
Altiero Spinelli was elected to the European Parliament in 1979, having stood as a candidate for the Italian Communist Party.
My main reason for doing so is that Altiero Spinelli’s definitive abandonment of Stalinism occurred as early as 1937, and that he later unswervingly championed European unification with idealism, passion, energy and occasional visions in advance of his own time, whether as an advisor to De Gasperi, to Jean Monnet, to the Italian foreign minister Pietro Nenni, as a visiting professor and political scientist, as a member of the Commission or of Parliament.
For fighting against fascism, Altiero Spinelli endured many years in Mussolini’s jails.
After the war, he was alongside such people as Henri Frenay, the leader of the French resistance movement , and Eugen Kogon, a German who survived Buchenwald, as a co-founder of the European movement.
For Altiero Spinelli, then, it was from the struggle against fascism that he acquired a sense of responsibility for Europe’s development as a peaceful and free democracy, and, right up to his death on 23 May 1986, he treasured his freedom, which had been bought at a great price, and maintained his firm faith in a peaceful and united Europe.
Mr President, you really ought to interrupt me and ask why I am talking nonsense.
This sentence is 20 years old; Spinelli used it in his speech to this House when presenting his draft.
As you can see, I am sharing my speaking time with Spinelli.
He also has something fundamental to say about unanimity and the constitution: ‘If we were to allow ourselves misgivings about the possibility of starting before everyone has acceded, we would be leaving the decision in the hands, not of those who are most determined, but of those who are the most hesitant, and, indeed, potential opponents, and would thereby be condemning the whole enterprise to virtually certain failure.’ Twenty years ago, Altiero Spinelli called on Parliament to tell the people what was at stake, that being European democracy and the development of political unity.
The artificial divide which has existed in Europe since the end of World War II has now come to an end and the peoples of east and west Europe have now come together freely as a community of 25 countries, working together with the common interests of promoting economic prosperity, democracy and the rule of law.
The vision of the founding fathers of Europe has been further realised as a direct consequence of the accession of ten new countries into the Union.
As a Community of 25 members, the Union is now in a much stronger position than ever to promote policies on the international stage with vigour and determination.
Also it is now 20 years since Altiero Spinelli drafted his report, which recommended that a constitutional Treaty be agreed for the European Union and one of the key elements of his report back in 1984 was to give a stronger role to the European Parliament.
Many of Altiero Spinelli's recommendations have been included in the Treaties which have been enacted over the last 18 years.
The European Parliament now has the power of codecision with governments of Europe in over 50 fields of legislative activity.
But we must be careful and remember that an extensive amount of work remains to be completed before a European Union Constitutional Treaty is agreed.
If agreement is reached for a new European Treaty then we will have to focus on the campaign to ratify the terms of this new Treaty across the 25 different Member States of the Union.
It was he and the founder of , Emanuelle Gasso, who taught me that federalism is not centralism but the idea of democracy at a level higher than that of the national state.
It is also a splendid dream for Europe, but it is a dream that could turn into a nightmare if there were no community of people that felt at home in a federal state.
The turn-out at elections to the European Parliament has fallen from 63% to 49% over five elections and will scarcely be more than 40% in June.
If we make a comparison with the United States, we now have 450 million native Europeans who would have to be removed before a new, common European people could emerge.
In return, we should accept the federalist model, or retire, on the day that participation in European Parliament elections makes the national elections less representative of the voters.
Might we also agree to have the EU Constitution put to the vote in all the EU countries on the same day.
Let us have a fair fight about the future of Europe.
Spinelli envisaged Europe in the Council, along the lines of the United States Senate, not in the actual project but in terms of the idea.
Until we reach that type of United States federalism and federalism of the United States of Europe, I think that we will find ourselves in a situation similar to the Paris of the Popular Front, based on red flags and trenches, which betrayed Spanish legality, making the Pyrenees a place of death for Madrid, while fascists and nazis were arriving in Spain to kill.
The special programme for peace and reconciliation and the International Fund for Ireland have done outstanding work in giving great hope to our young people.
I thought then that if I had stood there 30 years ago at the end of the Second World War – the worst half century in the history of the world in which 50 million human beings were slaughtered – and had said to myself 'don't worry, it's all over, they will all be united very soon', I would have been sent to a psychiatrist.
I know what I am talking about in saying that, because the three principles at the heart of the European Union are exactly the same as the three principles at the heart of our special agreement in Northern Ireland.
All Member States are represented in the Council of Ministers, the European Commission and the European Parliament.
The third and most important principle is what I call the healing process.
As they did that, they eroded the divisions of centuries and as a result the new Europe has evolved and is still evolving.
Those same three principles are at the heart of our agreement in Northern Ireland.
Given that it is a smaller world and that we are in a stronger position to shape it, the European Union should decide that our first objective in this new century is a world in which there is no longer any war or conflict.
In order to ensure that is the case – and I am making this appeal to the Council of Ministers – the European Union should put in place a Commissioner, backed by a Commission department for peace and reconciliation, whose function would be to send to every area of conflict in the world not arms or soldiers, but the philosophy of European Union.
This Commissioner's role would be to promote the dialogue about that philosophy and to help create a world in which there is no longer any war or any conflict.
Finally, once again I express my deepest gratitude to you all for the great support that you give to peace on my own streets.
Today's debate is taking place as representatives of all the Member States and of the Parliament are meeting in Dublin.
The task that has been set for them is to resolve the outstanding non-institutional issues in the debate on the Constitutional Treaty.
As a member of the European Convention, I am very conscious of the hard work and the deep commitment of the representatives of the European Parliament to the Convention process.
I should like to underline that at this point in our discussions we have moved much further, in a much more positive way, than anyone would have believed possible in the dark days of December and the early days of January.
The draft that came out of the Convention provided the Intergovernmental Conference with a truly excellent framework on which to build a Constitutional Treaty that will stand the test of time.
The draft is presented in language which is more accessible than any previous Treaty.
It seeks to provide the Union of 25 and more Member States with institutions that are workable and capable of meeting the needs of our citizens and of our Union into the future.
It enshrines for the first time a Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Union's constitutional order.
This is a formidable document that should commend itself to the people of Europe.
As I said on the BBC last weekend, I earnestly hope that the critics and sceptics – including those in this House – will take just a little time to consider this draft document and what it contains, and to take on board its very many merits.
I want to express my thanks to Parliament for its strong support of our efforts to conclude the IGC under the Irish presidency.
The very positive reaction to the Taoiseach's report to the Spring Council and the confirmation that the political will existed to reach agreement by the June European Council is a very encouraging sign of the commitment of partners to finding a final agreement.
We are seeking to make as much progress as possible during May, so as to leave only a very small number of issues for final decision by the Heads of State or Government at the June European Council.
In this context, the Taoiseach called on partners take a 'positive and focused approach' to the negotiations and to avoid bringing issues not previously identified to the negotiating table.
In response to President Cox's point earlier, foreign ministers will meet for detailed discussions on 17 and 18&#160;May.
At the last meeting of the General Affairs Council, Minister Cowen made it clear that if, in his view, further work is required, the foreign ministers will meet on 24 May and if necessary again after that.
The Taoiseach in particular will be using his pre-European Council tour of capitals, which started this week, to tease out Member States' concerns, to assuage those concerns, to answer any outstanding fears and to bring matters to resolution.
It should be possible to reach an outcome which meets the concerns of all, perhaps through some adjustment of the population and the Member State thresholds.
At the same time, there is also a need to take account of the particular concerns of Member States.
I believe that a satisfactory overall outcome, which will involve a further growth in the number of areas subject to QMV and to codecision, will be found.
I know that a great many of you hope that it will be possible to conclude the Constitutional Treaty before the European Parliament elections, and indeed, privately, that would be my hope and desire too.
We have further enhanced the role of the European Parliament and strengthened, as a result, the democratic scrutiny of the Union.
These principles are not in question in the IGC.
This new Constitution will be good for the European Union, it will be good for the Member States, and, most importantly of all, it will be good for the citizens of Europe.
It also represents the future of the European project, within the framework of which we must work together and the benefits of which we must constantly, on a daily basis, explain to our citizens, in order that we can earn their support.
Enlargement also represents a unique opportunity, which we must take with both hands, to reform our policies and to restructure the European institutions in order to develop the appropriate instruments to enable tomorrow’s EU to focus not only on the requirements – both internal and external – of efficiency, transparency and simplicity, but also on the specific concerns of the citizens and on anything that may make a difference to their daily lives.
It is worth recalling the reasons why the Laeken European Council opted to establish the Convention on the future of Europe: the growing distance between the public and the European institutions, the need to rethink the European project and the institutions in the context of enlargement and the need to take stock of Europe’s role in an increasingly globalised world.
Mr President, it is worth recalling the challenges that the Laeken Council issued to the Convention: the challenge of setting out clearly the division of competence between the Union and the Member States, so as to explain more clearly to the public who does what in the European Union; the challenge of simplifying the Union’s texts, instruments and decision-making procedures; the challenge of bringing added value to the European institutions and decision-making processes, in terms of democracy, transparency and efficiency; and even, perhaps, the challenge of fulfilling the dream of adopting a European Constitution.
Our desire to see this ambitious project succeed is an accurate reflection of our evaluation of the Convention’s work.
The Commission feels that the draft Constitution has met the aims of simplicity, efficiency and democracy.
Part III is, in fact, out of step with the modernisation of all the other elements of the Constitutional Treaty.
Mr President, I must express my support for the Irish Presidency’s determination to conclude negotiations on the future Constitution, preferably before elections to Parliament or, at least, immediately after that landmark event.
We – and on this I feel that I am expressing the opinion of the Commission, Parliament and the presidency&#160;–&#160;are all equally determined to see the European Constitution come to fruition during the first half of this year, thereby giving tangible form to the progress made in the Convention.
To take steps backwards, in areas such as the balance between Parliament and the Council on financial and budgetary issues, would be completely unthinkable from the point of view of the principle of European democracy.
We must avoid falling into the trap of simply juxtaposing twenty-five national debates; what we need is a real European debate.
Having been a Member of this House since 1979, he will be leaving Parliament, as will my Irish friend Mr McCartin.
Looking back over the past in this way enables us to have confidence and hope that we really can be optimistic in looking forward to our continent’s future.
Let us consider the previous enlargements.
Let me thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the work you have done to date.
If we deserve a European Constitution, it is because of your efforts and Europe’s.
We in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would welcome it if the Irish presidency were yet to succeed in getting a reference made in the preamble to our Judaeo-Christian heritage.
Commissioner Vitorino also made reference to that.
It is one of the prerogatives of the European Parliament, and indeed of any other, to be able to determine what is done with the Budget, and we will not be able accept any curtailment of our rights in that respect.
The national parliaments are also given the right to appeal in the event of their rights under the subsidiarity principle being infringed.
Europe is becoming more efficient, Europe is becoming more democratic, and what we want to achieve is unity for this Europe of ours in all its diversity.
The Constitution is a means to that end.
We wish the Irish Presidency every success in achieving that for us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to begin by joining in the deserved tributes to Jean Monnet and Altiero Spinelli, two visionaries, two anti-fascists and two courageous people.
I would also like to add that much is said about solidarity, about the step-by-step policy and so on, but we must remember one thing, and that is that the declaration of 9 May 1950 begins by talking about peace – as our friend John Hume has done today.
Having said this, Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to express our complete support for the declaration of the European Parliament’s Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Constitution.
I would reiterate our support for the draft Constitution, in the form it left the Convention.
We have always been clearly in favour of this system.
I would also like to add another important element, which appears in the draft approved in Thessaloniki but which then disappears from sight: there must be a legislative Council, because laws must be created in public and transparently, and there must also be a shared legislative power, not only to create laws, but also to approve budgets.
There is nothing to prevent this and it is important from the point of view of the timetable proposed to us by the President-in-Office of the Council.
I believe that this is an extremely important element and that in Parliament we are naturally going to be campaigning.
And a noble element of this campaign is that we contribute to making progress on the Constitution.
We expect the European Council now to show the political will to bring the IGC to a quick and successful conclusion and to draft the durable, efficient and effective system of democratic government that we need to strengthen the Union and its place in world affairs.
There are some worrying signs in this respect and Commissioner Vitorino is quite right to warn us.
Why, for example, is the Irish presidency suddenly seeking in its latest proposals to remove Parliament's power of codecision with respect to the Structural Funds?
Ultimately, we were unanimous in calling for a referendum, to be preceded by a major public and genuinely pluralist debate in each country.
Eight months on, we are no less convinced of the rightness of our position; in fact we have, I think, been strengthened in it by the way in which the debate on the European Left has unfolded, by the experiences of several EU countries and, lastly, despite its wishes, by the work of the Commission itself.
Developments in the European left’s debate on this issue have been most interesting.
Indeed, in the weeks and months following the publication of the text of the Convention, we have found our position increasingly in line with that of the main spokespeople of the European Social Forum and of alter-globalisation movements.
Equally significant is experience during this entire period in different EU countries.
Fierce social struggles have taken place against liberal reforms that are all rooted in the European policies of our respective governments.
This is precisely why, the very day after the resounding electoral defeat suffered by the Right in France, the Commission moved to head off any risk of a shift in French politics by issuing an ultimatum that, and I quote, ‘France must pursue its reforms’.
For the first time in ten years, as the document sets out in detail, we have shed two hundred thousand more jobs than we have created in the eurozone, whereas the declared objective had been to achieve full employment by 2010.
On all of these points, most Members of my group are not expecting miracles from the European Council, which – by complete chance, of course – comes a few days after the European elections.
In forcefully reiterating our demands for a referendum, preceded by a genuine debate that would allow the public to be in possession of the facts, we feel that, straightaway, a clear and unequivocal vote this June will be the best signal to give to the architects of the future Treaty.
Mr President, on a personal note, if I may, I should like to conclude – given that this is to be my last speech of this legislative term – that, if my constituents so wish, I will continue to lead the fight, with my friends, in this very House, for an alternative Europe.
An essential prerequisite for the continued effective operation of the EU following its historic enlargement involves adapting its institutional framework to meet the new circumstances.
Adopting the Constitutional Treaty is, however, impossible unless citizens of the Member States can identify with such an important document.
Let us give an opportunity to these citizens and Member States to create their own attitudes to Europe in line with their own traditions, respecting the principle of sovereignty in cultural and ethical matters.
I am deeply convinced that the purpose of EU reform is to create not a superstate but a supranational body, whose legitimacy is derived from the primary legitimacy of the Member States.
The Constitutional Treaty must guarantee a model of effective coexistence, the fundamental pillars for which are tolerance and mutual trust.
May I remind you of the rights of the small States.
For them, the question of financial mechanisms, together with an effective regional policy, is particularly vital.
The accession of ten new States to the EU does not mean that the process of integration is finished.
It is important that this process should aim to meet our common objectives.
Europe is turning a new page in its history, a page full of promise, and yet it will have to revolutionise the way in which it thinks and operates.
On the day in which Europe is enlarged to 25, we are still living with institutions that were built on a unitary model retaining something of the old bloc-based Europe, in the way that it seeks power by supranational hierarchy and seeks to abolish national sovereignties.
The draft European Constitution under negotiation is a perfect example of this thinking, and is, consequently, ill-suited to the management of a Europe enlarged to include twenty-five, thirty, or more Members.
What we must do – and I hope that the EU will discover this soon, perhaps, indeed, with the help of the new Member States – is to revive the legitimacy of national democracies, and arrange for their experience to be shared and their example to be followed, in the grand European tradition of pluralism, within flexible institutions built on the foundations of free nations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, from 1 May we can celebrate one of the greatest achievements of the post-war era.
The Cold War was evident, the nuclear stand-off only too real and many European peoples were under the yoke of one-party socialist dictatorships.
Liberal democracy has triumphed.
Warfare between the nations of Europe is unthinkable.
We should recall today the major contribution she has made to the cause of freedom on this continent.
As one who served on the Convention, I know there will be many debates on the future of this continent in the coming years, including through future treaties.
My party has a clear vision of a Europe of nation states.
The new Member States now join these debates.
We must secure these goals and we do so in a spirit of openness and mutual respect.
In the economic sphere, the new Member States bring vitality and experience of the need for economic reform.
Whatever our views on the kind of Europe we want to see, this week we can celebrate the reuniting of the nations of Europe.
It is a cause that my party has long championed and we say unreservedly to those who join us here today: you are most welcome. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, today, again, almost everything has been said about the timetable for consideration of the Constitution and of its contents.
Without the Constitution, the EU will progressively degenerate into a customs union.
The Constitution alone will enable the EU to become, again, attractive to the public, for Europe will become more comprehensible and more responsible.
If it were to fail, it would mean more than just the end of a great hope.
One of the key words in the Constitution is ‘balance’.
That was, and remains, a key to peace and stability in Europe.
The Constitution for the new Europe of the twenty-first century establishes balance by means of the equal participation of all states and the weighting of each of them within shared institutions in a way they can regard as fair.
The union of Europeans on the basis of this Constitution is our response to globalisation.
Legally speaking, the Constitution is a Treaty, and replaces the treaties on European Union currently in force, but it does – like every democratic constitution in the world – govern the ways in which power is legitimated and the ways in which it is limited.
It feels like a real privilege to be able to stand here in the House together with fellow MEPs from 24 other countries.
The EU will never be the same again.
This method is in every respect superior to all others when it comes to making progress in European cooperation, but it also has shortcomings, and it will not always be easy to unite when there are so many different countries, desires, cultures, backgrounds and expectations.
The new countries that have now become our colleagues have made huge efforts on their journey here.
We have the environmental threats, including the greenhouse effect, as well as the fight against organised crime, including terrorism, and the horrific trafficking in women and children.
We must create a continent characterised by growth and economic development.
We must create a common European foreign policy, and we must become more active in global work for peace, democracy and free trade.
These issues cannot be resolved in an effective and satisfactory way by using the Treaty of Nice.
I therefore, as a former member of the Convention, have this appeal to make to the Council and to the Irish who preside over it.
Secondly, Part III of the draft Constitution must – as this House has emphatically demanded – be adapted, in a politically and legally binding way, to the fundamental provisions of Part I, in order to secure the social dimension of the European Union.
The people who live in the EU must not be divided into believers and unbelievers.
Reference to God is not, moreover, a suitable bargaining counter for getting the Poles, for example, to agree to dual majority in the Council of Ministers, nor must it be used in an attempt to nullify the idea of Turkey’s accession to the EU.
We do indeed need a referendum on the Constitution, and, in the Convention, I have already argued the case for one.
I urge that there should be an EU-wide referendum on the Constitution on the same day in all the Member States; the date I would suggest is 8 May 2005.
Yesterday, we welcomed ten new countries, and ten new flags of ten new Member States are now outside.
The course of history has decided that at present, some big countries are being accompanied ... &#160;&#160; Mrs Maes, please take the flags down, you have made your point.
The Rules are very clear on this, so please respect them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we will take down the flags, pending their recognition by the European Union.
What we mean by this is that we welcome the new Member States, but at the same time, we want to call on the Council and Commission to recognise that the reality of languages and cultures, the diversity of peoples in Europe, cannot simply be reduced to states.
We know, and realise all too well, that we are one big family, but in our new Constitution, we must share sovereignty at supranational level, so that with Europe, we can play a role in the world that is worthy of these 450 million citizens.
In principle, this is already the case in the new Constitution.
The principles are laid down, but the rest is down to our Member States.
Although we collectively want to share sovereignty at supranational level, we also want the principle of subsidiarity to be applied from the top down, and languages and cultures to be protected.
Catalan, for example, is a language that is spoken by 10 million inhabitants.
Thank you for your attention and I hope that in the new Constitution, due consideration will be given to this deeper reality, which is older than our Member States. – The gallery does not participate in the sitting.
The Constitutional Treaty of the European Union is supposed to be the crowning achievement of the great project of European integration, for which we in Poland waited almost 50 years.
However, the draft submitted by the European Convention does not bode well either for the future of the European Union as a whole, or for Poland and other Member States of the European Union.
The concept of solidarity has a special significance in my country, Poland.
Europe cannot cut itself off from its Christian roots.
I have referred to a constitution enabling Europe to become a strong, competitive partner in international relationships based on fundamental principles.
The European Constitution should unite the peoples and nations of the European Union.
The European Union should remain a strong association of nation States bound together by solidarity.
I wonder, do these ten new members really know what they have let themselves in for?
I very much hope that the governments of those ten Member States give their citizens a chance to vote again in referenda, because they will be voting on something quite different from what they have been sold at the moment.
I can only say that, in my view, the gap that exists between the political classes of Europe and the ordinary men and women of Europe has never been wider.
After all, on 3&#160;May&#160;1791 Poland became the first country in Europe to adopt a democratic constitution.
It is, however, firmly based on Christian values, which united the States and peoples of Central and Eastern Europe, and which became enshrined in the May Constitution.
Unfortunately, the wording of the current draft of the Constitution of the European Union does not refer at all to the Christian roots that are an essential value of the foundations of Europe.
The countries of the former Communist bloc have only recently freed themselves from the fetters of a centralised State with a Communist ideology.
Polish Solidarity would not have existed without a Polish Pope whose own faith and example shows how to build a new Europe through a civilisation based on love.
Thanks to them too, it was subsequently possible to establish a new democratic system in Europe.
May God help the European Parliament in the building of such unity.
In Old Polish, I wish it Godspeed.
I must apologise for making such a long speech, but this is my last appearance in this House, as I will not be a candidate in the European elections. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the inaugural address, today work begins for those of us who are new Members in the European Parliament.
We Hungarians have been living at the heart of Europe for thousands of years, and over the centuries we have often had to fight to protect Europe’s freedom and faith.
We Hungarians have often enough been in a subordinate position, deprived of our rights, and that is why we are particularly sensitive to any violation of equality of rights.
During the years of the twentieth century when Europe was torn apart, behind the Iron Curtain, faith and the church represented for us the institutional bond to the idea of Europe.
For us Hungarians, because of Trianon, the injustice of the Treaty of Trianon, it is increasingly important to have the rights of minorities represented in the principles of the Constitution.
A constitution defines the structure of the organisation or country and the rights of its citizens.
By contrast, a Union made up of 25 States, and in the future of 27 or more, must have a clear institutional system and a distinct division of powers.
It must function efficiently, and, above all, it must be closer to the citizen.
I took part in the proceedings of the Convention and can vouch for the high quality of the work it accomplished.
I appreciate the excellent quality of the work undertaken by the European Parliament and successive presidencies, and must thank them for it.
In order to answer the question as to how good the constitution has to be, we must reflect on the kind of constitution Europe wants.
This is why the powers of the European Parliament in the area of the Union’s finances and budget must not be restricted.
It should be recalled that there the European Union has 50 million citizens with disabilities.
Above all, however, we are aiming at a democratic and united Union, a Union in which all states and citizens are equal.
Consequently, the decision-making process in the Council of the European Union should be based on a spirit of compromise that takes into account the interests of all States, large and small.
All the Union’s power must not be vested in just a small number of its Member States.
The willingness to accept this compromise will be a measure and determinant of European democracy.
The constitution is almost ready and will have to serve future generations.
Taking into account also that the people have endorsed it by means of a referendum or in parliament, it will be only right that, in the spirit of compromise, we adopt it quickly.
If you are not persuaded by my arguments, think of the power of the voters and citizens in Austria, Germany and Spain, in all the countries which no longer consider nuclear energy as a centrepiece of the solutions for tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, a constitution is something like an organisation plan for a society, and we urgently need one.
The situation we are in – a very difficult one – is to some degree comparable to that of someone who has a very fine plan with which to build a house.
The way in which this constitution has been brought into being, and the secretive way in which further negotiations on it are being conducted, does not augur well for the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while we are on the subject of freedom of speech, let me say just one thing, which is that this has been an open process, one in which every detail of the Convention was public, for everyone to read, examine, discuss and add their own contributions.
The European Union has to be able to function.
No longer can anyone defend interests that are exclusively national.
The fact is that it is better that we should put our national interests on the back burner when we have a common denominator, for it is this common denominator that will enable us to develop the strength to defend our national interests as well.
I would just like to express my gratitude to the Irish Presidency of the Council for its astute leadership, even though we will have to discuss those details in the final document where we in this House cannot agree to what is proposed.
I do hope, though, that we will nevertheless be able to achieve a good result. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the details of the European Constitution are extremely important.
Our citizens want more Europe.
If I might just address those who are calling for Christianity in the Constitution, could I suggest that if God existed she might ask the men who run the churches and the synagogues and the mosques to respect all human rights, and in particular respect the rights of the women they exclude from their ceremonies and from their theologies!
We must appeal to the better instincts of our peoples, to bear in mind that what we are trying to create is a Europe based on human values.
Many people have quoted Irish poets over the past few days in the big speeches that have been made, Seamus Heaney in particular, and his line that hope chimes with history.
Could I remind the IGC of another Irish poet, William Butler Yeats, who warned the founders of the Irish state to tread softly as they tread on our dreams.
The Constitution is a dream that we need to have put into practice.
Whilst the Constitution that you are proposing is being presented, in essence, as a codification of the Treaties, the very fact that it is referred to as the Constitution is ample proof of the direction in which you want to go: you want to move towards establishing a super-State, which will dominate the political, economic, diplomatic and cultural life of all Europeans, down to the last detail, regardless of the decisions taken by freely elected governments.
What you are creating is a new Soviet Union, and that is exactly what we do not want. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is a great honour and privilege for me to be one of the first Polish Members to address the House after the Union’s enlargement.
The enlarged European Union is generating great hopes, not only among the old Member States, but also among the new countries joining the European Union.
The Polish people have painful experience of the dark era of communism and nationalism.
Today we are discussing the future of Europe.
A Europe that forgets its roots cannot have a future.
Some of the views expressed in the course of this debate have caused concern.
There seems to be an attempt to create a two-speed Europe and to forge deeper alliances within the framework of the European Union.
It is also important to keep in mind Ukraine and our neighbours in the Balkans.
I hope wise decisions will be taken to strengthen Europe as a whole and each nation individually.
I am sure we all aspire to a Europe of peace, in which the differences between societies and economies are minimal.
The values and objectives stated in the Constitution will extend and strengthen the foundations of the European social model.
The establishment of peace and security is coupled with the fight against poverty and the protection of human rights.
On that basis, a vision is outlined of a new Europe with greater welfare and solidarity.
We Hungarians are delighted that as a result of our efforts the rights of minorities will be included in the Constitution.
On the basis of the Constitutional Agreement, the European Union will operate on a more democratic basis and its activities will be more transparent.
The importance of the European Parliament and the role of national parliaments will further increase.
The Constitution will provide an opportunity for direct civil initiatives too.
The legal foundations and forms of cooperation for the struggle against international organised crime and terrorism will be expanded and strengthened.
Discussions on institutional reforms often seem quite complex for the citizens.
These issues cannot make the democratic constitutionalisation process fail.
I greatly appreciate the effective work of the Irish Presidency, and I trust that with the support of European public opinion and as a result of the efforts of the European Parliament, we shall successfully complete the second phase of the constitutionalisation process. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this speech marks the end of my fifteen years of service in this House, which, I would like to point out, is the legitimate representative of the European citizens and of which I have had the honour of being President.
I would not be worthy of wearing the Jean Monnet medal or the Schuman medal if I restricted myself simply to taking pleasure in seeing the 25 flags and receiving our fellow Members from the new Member States, nor if I confined myself to expressing my satisfaction with the direction taken.
We must talk about the future of Europe, and that is what this debate is about.
I believe that the future of Europe, Mr President, will involve overcoming five challenges: completing enlargement, creating more efficient and democratic European institutions, effectively combating terrorism inside and outside Europe, providing the Union with the financial resources it needs to implement financial policies and, finally, to turn the Union into a factor for peace and development at global level.
And this is a difficult task which, unquestionably, the Irish Presidency must complete and on which ratification not achieved beforehand will largely depend.
This is a principle that Jean Monnet stressed, without which we have a larger Europe but a much emptier one.
I have learnt a lot from everybody, I would urge you all to continue fighting for an increasingly democratic and fair Europe of solidarity, which is able to overcome the crises that arise.
We need a stronger, more democratic and more efficient Union which guarantees the consolidation and development of the European social model.
A secular Europe which respects the values which have defined the co-existence of our citizens, respect for human rights and the multi-party system.
In other words, the rule of law which is today in place throughout this great Europe.
We must ensure that the European Constitution becomes a reality, and in this regard we must demand once again that the Convention’s draft be approved as soon as possible, during the Irish Presidency at least.
As a Spaniard, I am pleased to see that the arrival of a new government in my country is going to make it possible to break the deadlock in the Intergovernmental Conference and the approval of that Constitution, so that all the Community bodies function properly, also ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am very pleased to be here with you speaking Slovene and, with the voting card of a Member of the European Parliament, to be enjoying a time when history is smiling on us.
Remembering the victims of totalitarianism in Europe, I am grateful to all those who have contributed to the European democratic movement.
This session is not our first experience together.
We already have behind us experiences that will enable us to work together in the future, namely our work in the European Convention, which has led to a good draft of the Constitutional Treaty and has deepened our sense of mutual trust.
An enlarged Europe means a larger political Europe, a more transparent and effective institutional order, a greater role for the European Parliament, greater decision-making with a qualified majority, a single Foreign Minister and greater influence on the part of all its citizens, both men and women.
An enlarged Europe also means increased cooperation, open under the same conditions to all members, and not just open to a club operating at different speeds without a constitutional foundation.
The key terms of the Convention have been the values, democracy and equality of the Member States, and not any quantitative talk about large and small.
Let us bring together the experiences of the older Member States and the democratic dynamic of the new ones.
On the basis of my experiences of taking part in the Convention and my experiences during my one year stint as an observer in the European Parliament, I am absolutely convinced that it is crucially important that the European Constitution be adopted and implemented as soon as possible.
The fundamental legitimacy of this exceptional document, which is without equal anywhere in the world, lies in the fact that it was accepted by a consensus in the Convention after lengthy preparations and discussions with the broadest possible participation of the national and European parliaments, governments, the European Commission, the civil service, social partners and others.
Furthermore, I am firmly convinced that the early adoption and implementation of the European Constitution is a prerequisite for the effective, democratic and transparent functioning of the enlarged European Union.
The Constitution is vital if everyone's high expectations are to be fulfilled.
It is also important if the European Union is to play a greater role and if its social market model is to develop sustainably in the global world.
Finally, with its assurance of balance in the functioning of the institutions of the European Union and particularly the enhanced role of the European Parliament and national parliaments, the European Constitution is an important condition for actually bringing the European Union and its citizens closer together.
I therefore call upon the governments to demonstrate both courage and responsibility by adopting the final treaty as soon as possible at the Intergovernmental Conference, and, if possible, during the Irish Presidency, which has shown exceptional sensitivity and commitment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Europe which is being born at the moment brings to a definitive close the unhappy season of great dictatorships which bloodied our continent during the last century.
At last, countries and peoples who have had to endure a communist dictatorship are joining a broad area of peace and freedom.
I would like to welcome my fellow Members from Eastern European countries.
This is an example which our friends, who from now on will sit in Parliament, can give us, an example which we are sure that the whole of Europe should follow. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I wish to express my joy at having today been given the right for the first time to speak to this Parliament, the European Parliament, and to refer to an issue on which I have been engaged, the European Constitution.
Those who oppose approval of the Constitution are, I think, doing the European question a disservice because, in seeking something better, they are undermining something good.
I call for this Constitution to be adopted by the Intergovernmental Conference in 2004, so that 2004 can be christened the year of the European Constitution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have a two-fold historic responsibility; firstly, to give the Union a Constitution, a text that will enable it to function.
I should like to highlight, if I may, the inherent paradox in reaching agreement on a text after the elections, even though it will have been the main subject of debate.
Your second historic responsibility is more important: that of setting in train the ratification process.
I suggest therefore that you set the date for 5&#160;to 8&#160;May 2005.
On that day, which we could celebrate together as Constitution Day, and which could subsequently become a public holiday in the twenty-five countries of the EU, each country will ratify its constitutional treaty according to its own tradition and legal system, by means of a referendum or through parliamentary channels.
A Constitution that confirms that every State is equal, even by acknowledging Malta’s right to have six seats in this Parliament.
This must be the crux of the European Constitution and Malta will be working to achieve all this. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
As we have stated on many occasions, this Constitution is an attempt to extend capitalist integration in the European Union still further, which clearly consolidates the federal nature of the Community’s institutions and the dominant position of the major powers in the decision-making process, including unacceptable primacy over national constitutions.
We are thus forced to fight to defend derogations relating to public services, whilst they ought to be an absolute priority, a key instrument towards ensuring that human rights are respected and that we establish a Europe based on economic and social cohesion and solidarity.
We will continue to fight for an alternative Europe that respects the inalienable rights of the people of each Member State to shape their own future, one that respects national constitutions and one that is in keeping with the principle that States are sovereign and have equal rights.
We will campaign for a referendum in Portugal before the draft Constitution is ratified. &#160;&#160; On behalf of Parliament, I should like to extend a warm welcome to Her Royal Highness Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden, who has taken her seat in the official gallery here this afternoon.
This is the first vote of the new enlarged Parliament, the only democratically elected institution that represents 450 million citizens.
The Council is asking us to vote with closed eyes on a question that relates to our fundamental rights.
If we accept this request, Parliament cannot be taken seriously.
I ask you to withdraw this item and also to respect our referral of the matter to the Court of Justice. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the opposite view.
You will be aware that it was not least at the insistence of this House that the Commission entered into negotiations, and these have produced a creditable result.
Much of what we called for has been incorporated in this draft agreement.
There is room for further work on it, but it does, as a basis for an agreement, enable us in future to transmit, on a legal basis, data needed in the fight against terrorism from the European Union to the USA.
No vote today can alter the fact that the matter has been referred to the Court.
They ignore the fact that there is no freedom without security.
They show contempt for the rule of law in force, both in the European Union and in the USA.
Most tellingly, they forget that, faced with the terrible threat of modern-day terrorism on a world scale, it is essential that we safeguard both the security and the freedom of our citizens and cooperate closely with countries that are our friends and allies.
Thus we have seen the disgraceful way in which Paul van Buitenen and Martha Andreasen were treated and the extraordinary arrest of Hans-Martin Tillack.
I hope that people beyond this House will extrapolate from what has just happened.
I was elected on a manifesto commitment to fight fraud and maladminstration and it is very difficult to explain to my voters, the good people of Louth and Horncastle or of Derbyshire, why for ten years the accounts have not been signed off by the European Court of Auditors.
These problems are significant and typified by Eurostat and have failed to be addressed.
This motion of censure is not just about Eurostat but about the management culture that this exhibits, which goes unchecked.
This Commission deserves to be censured and future Commissioners need to know that they will be made politically responsible for the actions of those they direct. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I felt obliged to vote for the motion of censure because of the Commission's incompetence and lack of financial control as manifested in the whole Eurostat affair.
My constituents in Scarborough and Whitby and I are appalled that money languishes in accounts in Brussels when children are dying of diseases that could be treated. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as I hope everyone in this House knows, EUR 5 million went missing at Eurostat.
For these reasons I voted to support this motion of censure because it is unacceptable that the Commission should continue to evade responsibility for its actions and vital that it should continue properly to police the funds which the taxpayer entrusts to it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in 1999 Commissioner Kinnock was given the task of cleaning up the Commission's accounting and eliminating fraud.
So far the only person arrested in the Eurostat scandal has been the journalist who broke the story.
How am I supposed to justify to my constituents in Leicestershire or Northamptonshire the fact that the admitted level of waste and fraud in the EU institutions at EUR 5 billion is as much as the UK's annual net budget contribution.
Nevertheless, I hope the Commission will take note of the sentiment and clean up its act.
My constituents in Northumberland, Tyne and Wear, Durham and Cleveland demand that the Commission put an end to the culture of casual misappropriation of taxpayers' money that exists in so many of our European institutions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Members belonging to the and the may have voted for this motion of censure, but they are not fooled.
By intervening now, those Members who signed the motion have attempted to carry out a minor internal political operation, which is, alas, far from being commensurate with the gravity of the situation. &#160;&#160; .– The Commission has stalled for time and Parliament has let it get away with it.
No response to the plenary debate on the motion of censure, held on Wednesday 21 April, has been forthcoming, any more than to yet another resolution on 22 April 2004.
It follows that the failure of this motion sends a very poor message to the citizens of the twenty-five Member States.
Although the European Parliament is authorised to exercise the power of democratic control, a majority of its Members has explicitly declined to do so. &#160;&#160; .– On this great day, on which Europe is reunited, we are better than ever enabled to judge the gulf between the noble objectives of the European Union and the way it is actually managed from one day to another.
In fact, at the same time as welcoming ten new Members States, eight of which the Soviet Union had kept shut off from the rest of the world, we have been obliged to vote on a motion of censure aimed at penalising the Commission for one of the many troubled episodes that have occurred throughout its history.
Affairs like Eurostat, with its labyrinthine byways, and also the issue of GMOs, which has also been raised today in the context of the approval of the new Commission, are what happens when European institutions believe themselves to be superior to nations and end up being out of control.
The person primarily responsible, Commissioner Solbes, has meanwhile become minister in the new Spanish Government.
There is no evidence to show that the problems that forced the previous Commission to step down before the elections five years ago have well and truly ended.
To illustrate the seriousness of the situation and to ensure that the next Commission will be required to address the problems, I am voting in favour of the motion of censure today.
For this reason alone, the President and his Commission deserves Parliament’s political censure.
It is, nevertheless, entirely wrong to vote on a motion of censure at this time, at the very end of a legislative term and with the Commission’s mandate also coming to an end, and many commissioners arriving and leaving.
I therefore feel that the vote on the motion would not have any genuine political impact.
It is now immediately obvious to the electorate which Members wish to expose the mismanagement and deception on the part of the present Commission and which Members wish to cover it up or are not interested in it.
They illustrate that what the Committee of Wise Men concluded back in 1999 also applies to this Commission, namely that there is hardly anyone within the Commission who is willing to accept any responsibility.
If we failed to do so, we would not be taking ourselves seriously, or the citizens who have voted for us.
In these circumstances it was no longer credible to support a motion against the whole Commission and our delegation policy was therefore to abstain.
Nevertheless, it is essential that the Commission take serious note of the concerns expressed in the resolution on Eurostat adopted by the European Parliament on 22 April 2004; - that the Commission had failed to draw the appropriate conclusions from the Eurostat affair, and that it had failed to accept its political responsibility either collectively or individually - making clear Parliament’s intention to continue to monitor and scrutinise future developments in the ongoing Eurostat investigations and potential legal actions, with a view to further possible action The pursuit of greater accountability and control of the EU budget and dramatically improved management by the Commission; the need for the European Parliament to have the power to dismiss individual Commissioners; &#160;&#160; That concludes the explanations of vote in writing. (1) &#160;&#160; – Mr President, while we are now rejoicing and welcoming new Member States to the European Union, we cannot, unfortunately, put the international situation out of our minds.
In particular, we can have no confidence in any enquiry carried out by the governments of the States concerned.
Up until November 2003 when my flight schedule changed my regular routine was leaving Strasbourg in the afternoon to catch flights which departed for the airport in my constituency at times varying from 16:00 to 18:00.
Furthermore this routine also required me coming regularly to Strasbourg on a Sunday for which I received no daily allowance.
However in relation to the 6 dates he mentioned on RTEs liveline programmes, he was inaccurate in at least half of them.
In March he debated with this House the last steps in the accession of the ten new Member States which joined us last week and on the accession prospects for Romania and Bulgaria, as well as the current state of play for Turkey.
Less than two weeks ago, he reported to this plenary on the final preparations for the accession of Cyprus, recalling once again the clear preference of the EU for a united Cyprus to join the Union.
As we have all seen in the meantime, this desire on the part of the Union was not fulfilled and, as a result of democratic referenda held on the island on 24 April, the Annan plan for the reunification of the island was rejected.
The Commission deeply regretted that the Greek Cypriot community did not approve the comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem, but we have to respect the democratic decision of the people.
The Commission was invited to do so by the Council at its meeting in Luxembourg on 26 April, and financial support totalling EUR 259 million will be earmarked for this purpose.
The Commission has already initiated the necessary planning to that end and intends to bring forward comprehensive proposals on trade and aid measures within the coming weeks.
Differentiation is a key notion to the European neighbourhood policy.
The European neighbourhood policy is based on the principle of joint ownership in line with the European Union's approach that political and economic reform cannot be imposed and that successful cooperation can only build on mutual interests and the principle of equality of partners.
In the course of the last months, we have been working out the various aspects of this new policy and we are preparing, in close consultation with partners, a first package of action plans to be jointly adopted with them.
These actions plans will set out the agreed priorities of our relationships in key areas, as well as mechanisms to ensure their timely implementation.
Next week the Commission will present a strategy document on the European neighbourhood policy, together with country reports on this first group of countries.
The plans will identify key actions in a limited number of priority fields and include a clear time horizon.
Three days ago, on 1 May, a new chapter was written in the history of Europe.
It is no exaggeration to say that the accession of ten Member States marks a truly historic moment.
It does not, however, bring a complete end to divisions within our continent.
The Republic of Cyprus has taken its place as a full Member State of the European Union.
On 24 April, the people of both parts of Cyprus voted in separate referenda on the settlement plan presented by the United Nations Secretary-General.
It is important today, therefore, that I again emphasise in the European Parliament the deep gratitude that the European Union has for the determined and sustained efforts in the search for a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem by Secretary-General Annan, by his Special Adviser, Mr&#160;Alvaro de Soto, and by their colleagues.
The Council is determined to end the isolation of the Turkish Cypriots and to facilitate the reunification of the island by encouraging economic development.
I believe that the agreement reached on this regulation reflects clearly the desire of the Council to send a signal of encouragement to the members of the Turkish Cypriot community that its future lies within a united Cyprus and within the European Union.
The Council has recommended that the EUR 259&#160;million that had been earmarked for the northern part of Cyprus in the event of a settlement should now be used for this purpose.
I welcome the intention of the Commission to bring forward its comprehensive proposals within the coming weeks.
I have seldom enjoyed an experience more than I have enjoyed addressing this Parliament.
I am not sure whether that enjoyment was reciprocated, but nonetheless, from my point of view my duties here were very pleasant and they were made all the more pleasant by the fact that I was able to make new friends and renew old acquaintances.
We of course hope that following these days of celebration, there will be another joyful conclusion for at least a good number of the MEPs in this Chamber, when the European Council is held in June.
The parliamentary groups and the House as a whole have truly appreciated, both during individual meetings and thanks to your presence here, the great ability of a small country to help ensure that these wonderful days of celebration would proceed in the best possible way and that we could realise this ‘first’ in the history of the union of peoples, States, nations and citizens.
Thank you very much, Mr&#160;Roche, and through you I would like to thank all the Irish Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to join with you in thanking the Irish presidency for everything it has done so far, in particular in ensuring the success of this enormously historic occasion of the welcoming of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which, as other speakers have said, will go down in the annals of history.
This morning speakers have been talking about the past, of Jean Monnet and Altiero Spinelli.
It is true that within the European Parliament we now have a fantastic variety of representation of traditions and cultures, but this is not what Europe is going to be about over the next five to ten years.
In the last 20 years we have seen this question of enlargement go together with the deepening of the Union.
Firstly, when a new Commission is appointed, we need some vision and strategy of how to handle the internal problems of the Union.
But, perhaps more importantly for our electorate, we must determine how to remain competitive in the global economy and how to ensure the internal security of our citizens.
Therefore, on the question of how we are to handle enlargement, the majority of my Group would be in favour of consolidation of the Union rather than continuing enlargement simply because countries feel that they meet the criteria.
The essential clause in the Copenhagen criteria is that we should take account of the absorptive capacity of the European Union in order to welcome countries as they would like to be welcomed and as we have welcomed the ten Central and Eastern European countries today.
We must find the legal basis, the means by which we control the funds, and deal with a whole array of different things to enable us to create a stable, prosperous and secure environment for citizens of the European Union to live in.
For the majority of my Group, this means that we need to think in terms of consolidation over the coming period, rather than enlargement.
In time we can enlarge, yet under no account should we enlarge so quickly that we undermine the European Union, which we have built so strongly in the last 40 years. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group I would like to congratulate the Irish presidency on the way it has conducted business.
It has been a delight to work with Minister Roche in particular.
The Irish presidency has set a model of transparency and cooperation within the Parliament.
Today – which has been very much a day of celebration – it is important to remember just how far we have come in the European Union in a very short period of time.
It was then a country with huge energy shortages, tremendous dislocation, Soviet troops still on its soil and tremendous insecurity.
It is hard to imagine that, in the short period of 15 years, Lithuania has managed to join the EU.
This is a sign of what the EU can achieve when we are determined to set off down a particular road and not let obstacles hinder us.
If I can return again to Lithuania, one of the most spectacular events in my life was a visit to the KGB Museum in Vilnius where my blood ran cold.
This enlargement shows that the Cold War is finally at an end and we should remember that in those revolutions of 1989 and 1990, a number of people died to have the freedom to join organisations like the EU.
We must now make this EU work for the benefit of its citizens.
Our priorities in this enlarged Europe must be to have more and better jobs: not to talk, but to .
It is worth noting that the ten new countries have all had to go through a process of being investigated on a yearly basis by the Commission on their progress towards fulfilling the requirements for membership.
We must also have more and better security.
This enlarged Europe must be for the benefit of the world as a whole.
That is why I hope – and I am glad Commissioner Nielson is here – that we see no slackening of our commitments to development policy, no slackening of our commitments to meet the millennium development goals and that we redouble our efforts to develop better relationships with our neighbours.
We should celebrate today, but we should also remember that we must start working hard from now on to make this enlarged Europe work for the benefit of our citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Nielson, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party in this House has perhaps done most to promote enlargement.
We have worked closely with the candidate countries, our sister parties and others.
We have been active in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, and we were the only political group to vote unanimously in favour of every country in the vote on membership here in the House.
Now, we are all ‘us’: 25 countries and 450 million citizens who have come together to solve common problems, defend common values and build a common future.
Major reforms and changes have taken place in Turkey during Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s leadership.
The country has been modernised and democratised.
The role of the military in politics is unacceptable; there are political prisoners; the Kurds are still treated in an abusive and discriminatory way; and the court case against Leyla Zana leaves a very great deal to be desired.
A democratic Turkey would make an important contribution and be a link between Europe and the Muslim world.
The ELDR Group can never accept the argument that the EU is exclusively a Christian union.
The day that Serbs and Albanians sit in Parliament together with ourselves, or with yourselves in the Council, and, side by side, debate, for example, emission rights, then the European project will clearly have become a peace project again.
We proceed on the principle that all countries situated wholly or partly in Europe are welcome as long as they fulfil the criteria.
The great task in the next term of office will therefore be to implement, and give practical shape to, the neighbourhood strategy and formulate how, in practical terms, we are to increase cooperation with our eastern and southern neighbours, using the Mediterranean process, and with those countries that may one day be able to become Members and with those that do not perhaps want to become Members.
Mr&#160;President, you can be sure that the ELDR Group will put its weight behind this work.
The work that has been done in the committee and the fact that we are standing where we are today owe a very great deal to him. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, these days' debates have perhaps a celebratory character.
I should like, however, to point out that, for us, the enlargement of united Europe, over and above its historic, political and economic importance, is also a huge challenge for a Europe without partitions and without exclusions.
If, therefore, we look realistically at the omissions and problems, I would say that the European Union as a whole needs to look specifically at how the new Member States are being supported, so that cohesion, at both economic and social level, and the safeguarding of citizens' rights can progress.
Enlargement, however, is continuing.
As far as Turkey is concerned, enlargement and the consolidation of relations between the European Union and this country are, I believe, positive both for the country and its democratisation and for peace and stability in the area.
We believe that Cyprus can and must be used as a bridge between the European Union and the Eastern Mediterranean, especially the Middle East.
We could, of course, play this part much more efficiently if the Cyprus question had been resolved when we joined the European Union on 1 May.
Unfortunately, the referenda, the expression of the will of the people, did not bring about the result which we all hoped for.
In our perception at least, the no vote by the Greek Cypriot community in the referendum neither rejects the solution for the reunification of Cyprus nor, if you like, the plan of the Secretary General of the United Nations itself.
We have to act quickly and positively to ensure that agreement can still be reached this year.
The Government of the Republic of Cyprus has a problem with the implementation of the law governing the European elections in Cyprus.
In order to be able to vote, Greek Cypriots, Turkish Cypriots, Latin Maronites and Armenians have to be registered on the electoral roll for the European elections.
As a result of this procedure, only 503 out of an estimated 80 000 Turkish Cypriots are eligible to vote.
If the Cypriot Parliament decided to include on the electoral roll all persons who have either an ID card or a passport issued by the Republic of Cyprus, 40 000 Turkish Cypriots could vote.
Firstly, people from both communities who are in possession of an ID card or a passport from the Republic of Cyprus should automatically be entitled to vote.
Secondly, the Government of Cyprus should re-open the electoral roll over the next three weeks and make a public announcement in both communities and in both languages to ensure that those able to vote in the European elections do so. &#160;&#160; Mr President, joining the European Union still fires the public and political imagination of eastern Europe, even after, or perhaps, in fact, because of, the large enlargement round that has just been completed.
Encouraged by these promises, the president wants to know whether his country might also join the European Union. 'It will', says the famous Oracle in reply, 'but not during my term in office'.
In addition, the new Member States will also have a contribution of major importance to make to the forming of the Union's relations with its neighbours to the east.
We are relying on them today, just as the reform-minded forces in Belarussian, Ukrainian and Moldovan, society should be able to continue to rely on the European Union in the near future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the debate on an enlarged Europe and its neighbourliness policy is inextricably linked to the existential issue of European Union borders.
This should remain as such, and we should not decide in favour of enlargement if it turns out that those countries are not ready for accession at that time.
Turkey does, however, have a major role to play in the EU’s neighbourliness policy.
Following the referendum in Cyprus, I can only regret that the Commission and Council have decided in favour of a recognition of the Turkish military occupation of the north of the island.
Moreover, it would be interesting to know on what legal basis this recognition is founded.
This is a new illustration of the democratic deficit in the European Union, despite all pledges to bring Europe closer to the citizen. &#160;&#160; –Mr President, ladies and gentlementoday it is my great privilege to share with you my thoughts in the context of the European Union’s enlargement.
At the same time, it would be equally morally unjustified to make insubstantial promises to our neighbours concerning their possible accession, in a situation where neither party is ready for it.
The experience of relations with Turkey over the past 40 years would be a poor model to use for the development of relations with Ukraine today.
The Constitutional Treaty enables the involvement of ten new Member States in collective processes without compromising the fundamental principles and decision making of that union.
The restrictions on the free movement of workers imposed by some Member States is just as unwarranted as the imposition of stricter internal market regulations on new Member States.
Fourthly, I welcome the European Union’s neighbourhood policy, which is a guarantee for stability and democratisation beyond its borders.
I believe that the setting up of the ESDP mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the setting up of peace-keeping operations elsewhere in the world are signs of the European Union’s growing foreign policy agenda and of the attempts of Member States to speak with a single voice in the international arena.
Poland has become a Member State of the European Union, along with another nine countries and peoples .
Integration into Europe has been the hope and ambition of many nations, including Poland.
The Polish people played a significant role in this endeavour.
After all, Poland initiated the process of structural transformation in our part of Europe, and it was the Polish Government that was the first to propose enlarging the European Union to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
We therefore have good reasons for pride and satisfaction.
The date of 1 May 2004 will become a symbol of the end of the Yalta order in Europe.
This order artificially divided our continent, placing some in a privileged position, while sentencing others to a sluggish pace of economic development.
In order for work on this important document to be completed successfully, it is vital for all the Member States to be willing to compromise.
The Commissioner stated that European integration called for courage, courage of thought and the courage to compromise.
It will continue until the time our common neighbours in the east and south of Europe join our great strong family in their turn.
We should maintain the best possible relations with them, endeavouring to ensure they are properly prepared for the process of integration at the appropriate time.
I cannot predict whether the Polish electorate will decide if I should continue to sit in this House.
Allow me, therefore, to finish by thanking President Pat Cox and the European Parliament for enabling me to represent Poland in the European arena over the last year.
It has been a great privilege to witness events that will go down in history and an honour to have been actively involved in shaping them.
Firstly, the Greek Cypriots vote against peace and the reunification of the island in the recent referendum.
They voted against a particular plan which would not have brought peace or reunification to the island.
The plan also stipulates that Turkish troops of occupation will remain in Cyprus forever and that Turkey – an invader of Cyprus – will be a guarantor of the independence of Cyprus.
This means that a Member State of the European Union will be under the guardianship of Turkey.
This is the main reason why Greek Cypriots did not vote for this plan.
There is only one way that Cyprus can be reunified and peace restored: the Turkish troops of occupation must be withdrawn from Cyprus. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, beyond any doubt, the enlargement of the EU by the accession of ten states is an event of historic magnitude.
It is difficult to predict how history will eventually rate the first day of May in 2004.
Those who live in Prague or Budapest, where unemployment stands at only between 3% and 4% will take a different view of things from someone from Ostrawa in Northern Moravia, where some 30% are out of work.
Far be it from me to pour cold water on this solemn moment, but I know that there is in the long term nothing worse than self-deception, and that nothing does more political damage than the unwillingness to accept history with all its contradictions, bitterness and difficulties.
What the present time demands of us is that we be good neighbours.
A week ago, I was in Riga and saw for myself just how much is required if trust in our neighbours is to grow.
We are very pleased that Europe is becoming ever more united, that borders and regulations that hinder our cooperation and the full participation of Eastern Europe in the European Union are disappearing.
It is a great pleasure for me to announce to you today that Russians too are now part of a united Europe and I want to emphasise that this is a direct result of enlargement.
On 1 May, tens of thousands of the Russian-speaking residents of Latvia – participants in a rally – entrusted me to greet you and expressed a real hope that the European Union will develop not only as a union of States and economies, but will also become a real union of the peoples who live in the European Union and that the European Union will devote more attention not only to the economic aspects but also to such spheres as human rights.
In conclusion I would like to wish for effective cooperation for us all, for the good of our common Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, yesterday, 3 May, when the European Union was celebrating its enlargement, the people of Poland were honouring the Most Blessed Virgin Mary as Queen of Poland.
The Holy Father himself, Europe’s first citizen, the champion of the true union of Europe, is constantly reminding us that Europe needs God.
We cannot hope to overcome terrorism as long as we condone those dreadful acts of terrorism committed secretly every day.
If Europe rejects God’s laws, it will also reject the rights of nations and the rights of families.
I want to make it clear that we must take the time to do so.
Where Europe was already effective, it must of course remain so, in order that we may be successful in facing the challenge of globalisation and actively work on economic cooperation and in establishing a common framework.
This is true also of foreign and security policy, where Europe still has much to do over the coming years.
I hope that we will, together, succeed in this.
It follows that, rather than just talking about cooperation with our neighbours, we must come up with new approaches in order to actually do so where such close cooperation is desirable.
Where the European Union is concerned, there are only two options: being a full member or not being a member at all.
In order to address this aspect, Europe must assume credible political characteristics and a coherent strategy: at institutional level, only the Constitution can guarantee progress in this direction; at political level, in the report on the future of enlarged Europe adopted last November, Parliament stressed the need for political dialogue with all its neighbours, warning us against fragmentary, economic actions based exclusively on liberalising markets.
We must prevent the walls which we have demolished within the Union now being constructed at our new borders. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I should like to express my strong support for the policy of the Commission and the Council on Cyprus.
I should like to request that the Commission and the Council consider supporting appropriate court cases brought by Turkish Cypriots aggrieved that they have been deprived of the franchise for the European Parliamentary elections. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, that the ten new Member States belong to Europe is so manifest that their accession to the European Union ought to have been a formality, as should the accession of all those countries, constituting much of Europe, which are not at present Member States.
The European Union must enforce respect for the rights of all minorities.
Their economies are already under the thumb of major industrial and financial conglomerates from Western Europe.
Having been incorporated into the EU, they are regarded as second-class members, and the debate on a future European Constitution largely revolves around the idea of putting this arrangement on a constitutional footing.
What is particularly shocking today is that restrictions are imposed upon the rights of people from the ten new Member States – their right to travel, settle and work anywhere within the European Union.
I hope that, in the course of time, and above all as a result of social struggles, these workers may come to be aware that their fundamental interests are the same on whatever side of whatever border.
So far, the European Commission has taken a very pragmatic line on this.
In addition to Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey, the Balkans have, in principle, been given a 'yes', without a timeframe.
The Ukraine and Belarus have not received any answer, whether ‘yes’ or ‘no’.
In other words, how does enlargement affect the chances of establishing a common foreign policy?
Some, including some of us, are of the opinion that this is less likely after enlargement, because there are now 25 countries, which reduces the chance of unanimity.
For Europe to be cohesive, strong, and acceptable to all its citizens, it must accept new values along with new Member States.
The equality of citizens, the equality of nations, and a balanced economic development cannot remain mere slogans in the context of a world market that is very rapidly becoming globalised.
Now everything depends on us.
It would then be possible to offer even more hope of greatness to the citizens of Europe. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the remark was made on quite a few occasions yesterday that it is only now that the Second World War has properly come to an end.
As one person put it: it is only now that Hitler and Stalin have finally been conquered by Walesa and Havel.
Freedom, respect and tolerance have conquered the forces of totalitarianism.
On a day such as today, it is important that we should not construct new borders, but be open not only to the possibility of others too joining, but also to the old Member States’ taking on board some of the new things that enlargement can provide.
I would like to thank all those, in the Commission, in the Council and here in Parliament, who have contributed to this success.
I understand how important it is for the nations of Central and Eastern Europe to have a clear vision, how important it is to have foresight and how important it is to have a plan that these countries and nations can follow.
It is for this reason that I welcome the year 2007 regarding Romania and Bulgaria, which is a realistic date for these countries.
It is very important these nations and countries have programmes for the future that they are able to follow and that will contribute to the further success of the unified European continent.
We should not, however, forget other Balkan countries during this process, namely Serbia, Macedonia, Albania and Bosnia-Herzegovina.
I am convinced that these countries will conduct themselves responsibly and that they will contribute to implementing policies that will enable Europe to play its role in the world. &#160;&#160; –Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the enlargement of the European Union and about the relations with our new neighbours.
Since 1 May we can say that there is no longer any reason to speak of a divided Europe, but of one united large European family, which must act according to common perceptions and rules.
Estonia, having spent many long years in the Soviet Union against its will, as a member of the European Union now has Russia as its direct neighbour, followed by Belarus, Ukraine and Moldova further to the south.
Our experiences are necessary for the creation of a new and democratic Europe.
I therefore await with interest the new development strategy for the European Union’s neighbourhood policy due to be drafted shortly. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I believe that enlargement should mainly be a procedure of resetting and renewing the objective of a Europe of democracy, solidarity and peace.
The European Union, while respecting the results of the referendum and implementing the Act of Accession of the Republic of Cyprus to the European Union, needs to step up its efforts in order for there to be a solution in the form of reunification of the island and reconciliation of the two communities, a solution in the form of a twin-community, twin-zone federation, without foreign troops and permanent referees.
Secondly, let us not forget that the resolution of the Cyprus question will contribute to the security and stability of and peace in the wider area of the Middle East, which is suffering acutely following the military invasion by the United States of Iraq and the continuing policy of Sharon, who refuses to respect the rights of the Palestinian people. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the Polish Parliament stipulated that the Republic of Poland’s entry into the European Union should be subject to the fulfilment of four conditions.
Second, that voting in the Council of the Union be according to the Nice system, and not on the basis of a double majority.
Today, however, we cannot claim that Turkey is ready to open negotiations.
This is a clear illustration that Turkey is not ready.
We would therefore like to urge Turkey to conform to the Copenhagen criteria and inform us of its own accord when it is ready.
In anticipation of this, we want to put our own House in order with, as I hope, the new countries by our side. &#160;&#160; I should like to express my thanks and gratitude to you that Hungary has been able to become an integral part of the European Union.
This morning, during the Constitutional discussions, one Member of this House said that constitutional cooperation meant force.
We know another type of expression for libertinism, which, for us, represented 45 years of isolation and the Iron Curtain.
That is why it is very important for Hungary that Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia should join and that the capabilities of the Ukraine and Serbia should be increased.
The soon to be introduced Constitution will provide a further guarantee that the ruling powers will never have the chance, even in theory, to repeat this dreadful period of the twentieth century. &#160;&#160; Madam President, cooperation between the Europe of 25 with the neighbouring countries to the east, such as the Ukraine, and to the south, such as North Africa, should not in the first place be about EU membership, but about stability and security pacts, whereby the control of borders and border regions should be central.
At the same time, it is necessary for the enlarged Europe to put its own house in order.
In this Europe, there is too much neo-liberalism and too little in the way of social dialogue, social security and employment.
In this Europe, there is too much backroom politics and too little public-political debate.
In this Europe, there is too much red tape and too little discretion shown in working practices.
A more social, more democratic and more selective Europe means a strong Europe with a Constitution.
Consequently, that Europe, with the self-assurance of the citizens behind it, could give its backing to stability and security pacts with the new neighbours.
Only if the citizens of the 25 feel stronger and more secure in themselves, will we, the Europe of 25, be able to be good neighbours.
Stability and security pacts entail not only fair trade zones, human rights programmes and knowledge exchange programmes, but also cooperation agreements in order to closely monitor our external borders and regions with regard to terrorism, the trafficking in women and crime.
Incidentally, I take the view that Europe should withdraw from Iraq until such time as the UN has actually taken over the mandate. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I wish to begin by welcoming our 162 new MEPs to the European Parliament.
I am convinced that there will be many exciting debates in this new Parliament, even though I myself shall not be participating because I am now, after two terms of office, leaving the European Parliament.
I also welcome the negotiations with Turkey, even though I am aware that Turkey still has a huge amount of work to do in the matter of, for example, democracy.
The new, enlarged EU must take upon itself the arduous task of genuinely becoming a functioning Union for all citizens.
I am therefore very proud that the Swedish Parliament voted against a proposal for transitional rules governing the labour force from the new EU countries.
That is something that also emerged extremely clearly from Lech Walesa’s speech yesterday.
To obtain respect, there must also be a readiness to respect others. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it was a privilege for me over the past three legislative periods, from the liberation of eastern Europe to the accession of the new Member States, to take part in the accession process as policy coordinator for the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and, initially, also as strategy rapporteur.
I would echo the Commissioner's words about Turkey and the need to give political criteria priority over the more technical policy problems.
In fact, I wonder whether that is indeed the intention and whether something will yet be done about this.
We are European representatives of the people, elected in different countries.
The mood of solidarity creates the confidence that is essential to us, and on which the EU's future will depend. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, first I should like to thank everyone who contributed towards the integration of the Republic of Cyprus into the European Union and to say that Cyprus, which has battled and fought hard for freedom, justice and, above all, solidarity between peoples, is becoming a member of the European Union, which has these as its principles and objective.
Our integration into the European Union is the achievement of one of the major objectives which we set, but this does not mean for us that we shall rest.
Our next objective is to resolve the Cyprus question, an objective which, unfortunately, we were unable to achieve prior to integration.
Our desire is to reunite our country.
The democratic decision by the Greek Cypriots does not express a wish not to resolve our problem.
As regards the so-called embargo mentioned earlier for the Turkish Cypriots, and which never existed on the Greek Cypriot side, we believe that our Turkish Cypriot fellow countrymen, who for us are equally European Citizens, with all the rights which derive from the integration of Cyprus into the European Union, certainly need to be strengthened economically.
This has also been proven by the Turkish Government, with support measures which it itself announced a year ago and again recently at the Council of Ministers for Foreign Affairs in Luxembourg.
Our objective is to resolve the Cyprus question as quickly as possible, so that the entire Cypriot people, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, can again celebrate together the integration of a united Cyprus into the European Union and the reunification of our homeland. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I had the wonderful opportunity to share in celebrating the historic event of enlargement and our neighbours’ joy on Frankfurt’s .
The winners can celebrate, but there are losers too, and they have already been mentioned.
One important group who have lost out are the Turkish Cypriots, who voted in favour of Europe.
What bothers people, what they are afraid of, is the new Schengen border, the new frontier and the prospect of again being out in the cold.
For real change to happen in our neighbourhood concept, I am relying very much on the cooperation of our fellow-Members from Poland and Slovakia and our counterparts in Ukraine and the other neighbouring countries.
We assure you today that we shall repay it with the positive role of our contribution and our consistency towards what we call a Europe of all the peoples, a strong, powerful Europe, a Europe of prosperity, security and stability.
They could not create this feeling, if you think – and you must understand us – that our people, in their course through history, were only without an occupying army, without foreign troops, without suffering invasion and abuse of their human rights, from 1960 to 1974.
I believe today that Cyprus can constitute a major positive challenge for Europe, a positive challenge in which it will be able to prove and gainsay all those who think that it is only a commercial and financial union, proving that it is also a political union.
Even though part of the island has rejected the Annan plan, I am still convinced that the Cypriots, both Greek and Turkish, can live together and want to do so.
That way goes via renewed dialogue between the communities under the auspices of the European Union.
One possible reason why the referendum in the Republic of Cyprus failed may be that the voters felt themselves rushed and that too little time was allowed for explanations; that being so, it was monopolised by nationalist slogans.
This, Madam President, Commissioner, is my last speech in the European Parliament, and so I issue an urgent appeal to the Commission and the Council, that they should put behind them the legitimate disappointment aroused by the rejection of the Annan plan, but, Commissioner, we must not sit around idly.
You will be aware how perturbed some of our neighbours and friends on the other side of the Mediterranean are today at the prospect of our Union devoting excessive energy and resources to the realisation of its new internal unity, to the detriment of the interest it should have in their own future.
I am sure that Jean Monnet, whose memory we honoured this morning, and whose humanism was leavened by pragmatism, would not have failed to notice that a continued contribution to the development of our Southern neighbours was not only Europe’s duty, but also in its interest and in the interests of generations yet to come, on both sides of the Mediterranean.
It is my hope that, when Parliament reassembles, many of those of us in whom their electors put their trust will continue to work with determination to extend to North Africa, to the Middle East and to the whole of the continent of Africa, the area of peace and stability that our forebears were able to establish on both banks of the Rhine 60 years ago.
Lithuania, which has a five hundred and fifty kilometre external border with this State, is very concerned that economic reforms and democratic change should take place in this country.
If nothing is done in this State, however, then everything will carry on as before for many years to come.
Some of the new member countries have already lived with their neighbours in one union.
I would like only to remind you here that it is not over for everyone and especially not for our neighbours.
We congratulate the Romanians, who will be in the European Union in a couple of years, but why not the Moldovans?
Only because the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact allowed Soviet forces to occupy part of Romania and because these forces remained in Moldova and refused to withdraw.
Friendship with the West is a sham and the provocations in the Baltic countries will continue, to be used as a bargaining chip in a deal with the West on the issue of Chechnya.
Madam President, that is a precise description of what our neighbours in a neighbouring State have been given by a member of the State Duma.
In conclusion, before we dream about the European Union's borders with Iraq, let us put our closer neighbours in order. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many people tend to refer to certain events, in which they participate as they are happening, as historic or unique, because that is how they appraise the period in question.
As time goes by, however, developments themselves, history itself, finalises things, and events are placed in their real proportion when developments themselves confirm them or cancel them.
I believe, however, that history will not gainsay us and will confirm the political and historic values of this promising step of recent enlargement by Europe.
Often we debate the future in terms of ideologies which have either collapsed or are outdated, resulting in our engaging in useless nostalgia.
United Europe, however, must be constructed on the basis of a forward-looking perception, with positive prospects, supported on principles of humanitarianism, freedom, diversity, pluralism and peace.
A few years ago, our current partners were our neighbours, with all the peculiarities and the historic and political burden of a different era.
The integration of the ten countries into the Union does not mean that all the individual problems have automatically been resolved.
There are mild problems, cross-border problems, minority problems and so on, but they have all launched their solutions within the favourable environment.
These ten countries bring great potential.
The same applies to Turkey which, I hope, will quickly adapt to what are European values.
I wish our Community peace, stability, prosperity and a good quality of life.
God bless our joint work.
The EU changed its neighbours and its external borders overnight.
This transformation also represents a challenge to produce a new, well thought out integration project, which will be an extension of the current project, at the end of which Europe will be reunited within its geographical and cultural borders.
For our new neighbours the prospect of integration represents the same dream as we had ourselves.
Our joint task is to help these countries to fulfil their dream.
I know from the experience of my own country how the prospect of the European Union membership can be a driving force for carrying out necessary reforms that would otherwise require fierce political determination.
The European Union is already showing an interest in extending the enlargement process, and new emphasis in the area of Common Foreign and Security Policy should reflect this.
Not only are there new neighbours, but the character of the neighbourhood is also changing.
In order for this cooperation to be successful, we must overcome the divergence of policy tools in the area of external relations and ensure that they are simplified and harmonised.
This will make the new neighbourhood complete. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I believe that we must, even today, begin to deal actively with the issues that came to the fore on 1 May.
For Europe, new members mean new borders and new neighbours.
Among these new countries bordering on Europe for the first time, we find again, after a break of 15 years, a totalitarian country, Belarus, and also Ukraine, where democratic and economic reforms have unfortunately stalled.
Russia, whose problems we already know, I shall pass over here, since Russia has already been the European Union’s neighbour for nine years.
These countries are all possible conduits of migration; and nobody monitors the people entering their territories.
Some of these countries are on the verge of ecological disaster.
The gap is already clearly visible, but in a few years it will have grown significantly.
Some here have spoken of the historical and cultural borders of Europe.
Eight years ago, in his book, Samuel Huntington drew the border of Europe; this border almost exactly matches the border of today’s enlarged European Union – a thought provoking circumstance.
We have a choice to make: either we direct significantly more political attention and financial resources to these countries, which is of course very expensive, or, we build a new effective, but un-European and inhumane wall, a great wall of Europe between itself and its new neighbours.
In this case Europe’s eastern border will soon resemble the US–Mexico border, together with all the similar problems.
Paradoxically this wall will be located in the same countries that 15 years ago suffered due to the wall on their western border.
A secure Europe must deal with the issues of its neighbours.
It is up to us to decide whether we do so via segregation or assistance. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the European Union is beginning a new stage in its history.
It is logical that the next stage should involve Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia – the last of which would be very desirable as a new Member State.
That would risk losing our sensitivity to the Mediterranean world, which is our world.
And we should contemplate the dangers in the future for all of us.
It is here that strong political and diplomatic presence in the Middle East on the part of the European Union can give positive results to our neighbourhood policy.
By promoting peace, prosperity and stability in the region, the European Union will not only be contributing to the welfare and security of the region but also to its own security.
Insofar as North Africa is concerned, things are moving ahead.
The Agadir Agreement can be a fundamental link, bringing us closer to our joint objective of a Euro-Med free-trade area by the year 2010.
For if this Mediterranean of ours is to overcome its present divisive element, we have to build on our commonalities: common interests, common concerns, a common heritage.
It is not fair that this Commission, or our successors in the next Commission, should continue to be under the same kind of pressure that we have felt thus far.
The Council decision will be respected.
I am confident that what we do in the global perspective will not in any way be weakened by enlargement.
With regard to deepening or expanding the Union, please keep in mind that the Luxembourg Agreement reinstating the veto in the Community was decided in 1966, many years before the first wave of enlargement took place.
Some Members referred to the Treaty being negotiated and discussed as a way forward on these issues.
There is in what is now being discussed that creates a new situation in relation to what we are addressing here.
That said, the debate today has been positive.
The notion of the European neighbourhood policy is exactly what we need.
This new neighbourhood policy is simply borne out of a need to create a strategic, positively-defined neighbourhood, keeping our options open and organising everything over the long term.
Continual enlargement will never be a sustainable answer to the question of how to live with Europe's neighbours.
Without it, no table will stand, not even a round table like the one we sat round in Poland in the past.
When I refer to culture, I have in mind all areas of human self-realisation.
The Renaissance, Baroque, Enlightenment, Romanticism, and now Postmodernism are all bidding to be involved in the creation of the order I mentioned.
I am happy that, at this unique historic moment for the European Union, I am being given an opportunity to debate with you, the representatives of 450 million people and of a union of markets, economies, peoples and societies, the two basic foundations on which the European Union is based: the economic and the social model.
The European economic model concerns the unification of markets and economies and the coordination of economic policies.
The European social model is designed to secure a high level of social protection, education and social dialogue, based on good economic performance.
They represent the two characteristics which distinguish the European Union from other areas in the world.
In addition, they have helped not only to secure entire decades of increased prosperity for all citizens, but also to consolidate peace and friendship between the peoples of Europe.
As far as the European economic model is concerned, the Treaty makes provision for the application of an economic policy based on close coordination of the economic policies of the Member States.
Within this framework, the expression 'coordination of economic policy' is used as a general term, which covers an entire spectrum of interactions between policy-making factors, at both national level and European Union level.
The uniqueness of the coordinating framework in Economic and Monetary Union lies in the fact that an independent, supranational European Central Bank has undertaken to exercise a single monetary policy, while responsibility for economic, financial and structural policies remains decentralised in the hands of the national authorities, but subject to joint rules.
The European Central Bank decides monetary policy on the basis of developments noted in the eurozone as a whole and therefore has the facility to deal in the best possible way with any important crises which may affect the common currency zone.
Many of the constituent components of the economic coordinating framework are closely linked to the general Lisbon strategy, a strategy of structural reforms with economic, social and environmental dimensions.
The framework of economic policy gives the national policy of each country a noteworthy degree of autonomy in important sectors and reflects the application of the principle of subsidiarity, which is based on strong economic and political logic.
The decentralisation of policy-making procedures gives the national authorities the necessary room for manoeuvre, allowing them both to apply policies in keeping with national economic structures and preferences and to adapt to the economic developments noted in each individual country.
Macroeconomic coordination in the eurozone is generally based on dialogue and agreement.
Its main objective is to ensure that economic growth comes up to its real potential.
In order to avoid distortions and safeguard the smooth functioning of the internal market, structural policies which have a direct impact on the functioning of the internal market and competition are subject to stronger forms of coordination.
The conclusions of the European Council in Barcelona describe it as a model based on good economic performance, a high level of social protection and education and social dialogue.
Despite the differences which exist between our individual national systems, this particular European social model, which European social policies strengthen in a bid to consolidate the economic power of Europe, really does exist.
Nonetheless, in order to improve its efficiency, this model needs to be updated.
The social partners play a very important role from this point of view.
The inclusion of competitiveness at the World Economic Forum, at which European countries such as Finland, Sweden and Denmark clearly have leading positions, clearly emphasises the vital importance of this interaction.
The social partners play a crucial role from this point of view.
Social policies are not therefore simply the only result of good economic performance; they are, at the same time, a factor which makes an essential contribution to economic growth.
Finally, I should like to point out that economic prosperity depends on efficient competition between businesses and social progress depends on solidarity between citizens.
Both these factors have contributed to the success of Europe.
Competition without solidarity would result in the law of the jungle.
Solidarity without competition would lead to stagnation.
That is why the European model is based on the market economy, which recognises the rights of workers and social dialogue.
In conjunction, therefore, with highly developed social systems, it provides the possibility to carry out the necessary structural changes in the economies of our societies in such a way as to avoid conflict and safeguard social stability. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, enlargement has been a turning-point in Europe’s history, and we have experienced it at first hand.
The Europe that we want must not be guided by economic interests alone, but also by values of social progress and full employment.
If we are to restore Europe’s credibility in the eyes of our fellow citizens, we have to make it a social Europe with more of a dimension of solidarity.
The European model that we want to build is founded upon values of humanism, liberty and solidarity, which solidarity is the result of economic growth, ensuring a satisfactory level of pensions, the protection of the weakest, promotion of the rights of workers and of the family.
It was on our continent that social policy and the Welfare State were invented.
The citizens of our twenty-five countries will identify themselves with Europe only when, and in so far as, the EU manages to demonstrate in practical ways its ability to improve living conditions for every citizen.
Europe’s ambitions cannot be bounded by the great market or by free trade alone.
Let me forcibly reiterate that we Socialists regard stability as a public good, one that must be defended in the interests of the poorest in society.
Without growth, however, stability leads to a social desert.
Europe must be in the front line fighting for true globalisation, which is socially, environmentally and economically inclusive, in that it does not leave by the wayside billions of people living across two-thirds of the planet. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner Dimas, how do we turn enlargement into an economic and social success?
These concepts are not a threat, but the key to economic prosperity.
My experience is that those in our new Member States have felt rather offended at the unwillingness to give the labour force from the new countries freedom of movement from the beginning.
Indeed, even those countries that, like my own, are, from day one, opening the borders to workers from the new Member States have introduced monitoring of the labour market and restrictions on access to social benefits.
We have forgotten too quickly that many people from the new Member States did in fact leave behind rich and secure lives in the West in order to travel back to economic uncertainty and develop their countries.
It will be a difficult task, but I believe that, if we support, for example, the work being done through the agencies in Bilbao, Thessaloniki and Dublin, we shall have a good opportunity to take this process forward. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, we all rejoice in welcoming the peoples of the ten new Member States of the European Union.
Enlargement brings the hope of peace, cooperation and valuable exchanges between peoples.
The Lisbon strategy, launched in 2000 with the aim of securing full employment and a very high level of competitiveness, has failed to achieve that.
For the first time in ten years, the Commission has admitted that employment is falling and, like the Council, is worrying about how serious the movement towards de-industrialisation is.
Any merger agreement must include social clauses.
What my group has done over the past five years has been a demanding labour, and many of the fields are still open. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the euphoria that has erupted in this House, which I also detect among the leading European politicians, is understandable, but I do, of course, ask myself if the people feel such enthusiasm too.
Europe evolved as an economic area and, above all, in the hope of creating peaceful cooperation in Europe after 50 years of war.
That alone that will make us strong. &#160;&#160; Looking at the half emptybenches one can conclude that many of us are still under the influence of the exciting events of enlargement, but work must continue.
The European Union has been joined by countries with fundamentally different levels of economic, and consequently also social, development.
This means that enlargement demands a new understanding of ways to ensure the socio-economic growth of the European Union.
I will remind you that the common market of the European Union was created with the aim of promoting the competitiveness of its members and is based on four fundamental freedoms.
Almost all the 15 Member States of the European Union, excepting the United Kingdom, Ireland and Sweden, the latter with an admirable parliamentary vote against what the government was offering, have introduced a transitional period for the free movement of workers from the new Member States.
Shortly before the time when the basis for the remaining three came into force, there were ever more forceful voices talking about tax dumping, unfair tax competition, speaking about the need for tax harmonisation, even though the European Convention had recently rejected this idea.
There are fears about the possible movement of capital towards the new Member States, to be followed by a possible transfer of jobs in an eastward direction.
Economists will never cease debating the right level of taxation.
Only in this way will the expansion of the European Union unleash unique opportunities for the unification of Europe and more quickly resolve the stresses of domestic policy in the Member States.
The enlargement of the European Union ... &#160;&#160; Madam President, when, between 10 and 13 June, European Parliament elections are held in the 25 Member States, a dream will come true.
According to the opinion-formers, these elections will pass judgment on the policies of governments in office, rather than on those of the European Parliament.
Rather than words, after all, the voter wants to see action and find out whether the parties and MEPs have delivered on their election promises.
The citizen is entitled to a government which honours its promises and which translates good intentions into proper policy.
Over the past months, I have, at various times during debates on economic policy, drawn attention to the stranded Lisbon process.
The Member States are themselves responsible for implementation, and you will appreciate that with 25 Member States, a few countries should take the lead.
In that way, the elections may not be about settling scores, but instead about giving a mandate. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Members of this House have been entrusted with a great responsibility.
We are responsible for the citizens of the European Union, for their prosperity and their welfare.
They inspired the creation of the European Coal and Steel Community and the EEC.
The aim was to create peace in Europe and in the world, as well as prosperity for the people.
It is wrong for a country’s population to be divided into a small group of rich citizens and a large group of poor ones.
We advocate involving the rich in assisting the poor.
We must commit to the economic development of all of Europe through the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and job creation.
Only then shall we take the economic lead over the USA and Asian countries such as China and Japan.
Production quotas and production limits are putting us back by 24 years in the production of tobacco, for example.
The figure for sheep farming is 35 years.
Let me remind you that speakers who do not have the speaking time that they would wish may submit in writing the speech they would have liked to give.
This document will be made available to them to publicise as a speech made in the plenary session of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Europeans, a little more than 20 years ago, the European Parliament passed a declaration that condemned the occupation of the Baltic States by the Soviet Union and demanded our freedom.
I am deeply moved that, in this historic session of the European Parliament, the first plenary session since enlargement, I have the opportunity to speak to you in my mother tongue.
Presumably it is this historical perspective that enables new Member States to see the European Union, not just as a common market, but as something more: a common home based on common values and perceptions.
Today there is no longer an old Europe and a new Europe; just one Europe – our common home.
Europe’s development has slowed significantly during the last decade.
Although the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy are in every way correct, we have to admit that, following its adoption, the gap in competitiveness between Europe and the United States has widened rather than narrowed.
I very much hope that the European Union’s enlargement will also add impetus to this process.
Our aim must be clear: to achieve as rapidly as possible – in the case of my homeland, Estonia, I believe that time to be at least 15 years – a standard of living such that we no longer need assistance from wealthier European countries.
At the present, Poland has an economic growth rate of 6%.
Membership of the European Community gives us the chance to consolidate this growth and to accelerate development.
Pursuant to the Lisbon Strategy, the European Union, is aiming to become the strongest and most competitive economy in the world by 2010.
Nonetheless, economic competitiveness and the laws of the free market are not sufficient to ensure social progress.
What is necessary is sustainable development combining economic effectiveness with the principles of social justice and environmental protection.
This approach will ensure all citizens benefit from the results of European integration.
It will lead to the creation of a society without barriers or divisions.
Sustainable development of the countries of the European Union also involves the development of its regions and the consolidation of local government.
I believe that promoting economic competitiveness while respecting the principles of sustainable development will help to improve quality of life for all Europeans.
This is, after all, the goal of our common endeavour.
Six years ago, in 1997, Eurostat’s figures told us that the Europe of the Fifteen was home to 18&#160;802&#160;423 businesses, 18&#160;million of which were microfirms.
It follows that the importance of these microfirms must be borne in mind by those who will be legislating for the Europe of the future, and all the more so on a day when we are celebrating enlargement by the accession of new Member States.
Legislation must be adapted to them, must take account of their specific characteristics, of the small size of such microfirms and we must, each and every one of us, consider these self-employed workers, these members of the liberal professions, these traders, these artisans, artists, and farmers as all being brave people, who maintain Europe’s human face through the personal services that they provide, and that is important in an increasingly globalised and ever more high-tech Europe.
It is thus that we will have successful businesses and also be able to guarantee the social Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, those of us in Parliament, and in European society, who want a political Europe and who welcome the new Member States, those who want a Constitution that will take the EU forward as a political entity that is united in its diversity are in the vast majority.
Whilst we want a political Europe, Mr President, it must be said that this will not exist without a social Europe, which must be made a reality as a matter of urgency, by integrating our fellow peoples that have a per capita income of less than 40% of that in the Union of the Fifteen.
This is despite the fact that, with enlargement, the number of inhabitants of regions eligible for Objective 1 (whose income is less than 75% of the average per capita) is set to double; to put it more clearly, this figure is set to jump from 63&#160;million people at present to 153&#160;million in the coming years.
Similarly, nothing will be resolved if the budget is limited to the 1.14% proposed by the Commission.
Funding per capita for Objective 1 regions will be halved, thereby blocking a cohesion policy that has benefited and defined the entire Union.
This means the Union’s policy of aid for poorer regions must be one of the most important issues in the coming years.
In the course of the debate on the European Union’s budget it should become clear whether the old Member States are prepared to give priority to the principle of solidarity over and above their immediate local economic interests.
I have the honour to address the European Parliament today on behalf of the Malopolskie and Swietokrzyskie District.
I am delighted to be instrumental in ensuring that its voice can be heard in this House, where all the nations of Europe are represented.
I am therefore convinced that the people of our region will cope and succeed in the new European Union.
Our success, however, the success of these two areas, will require solidarity from you, the representatives of the richer part of Europe.
Finally, we need programmes enabling the young people of the Malopolskie and Swietokrzyskie voivodships to take full advantage of educational opportunities in the enlarged European Union.
From an economic point of view, however, the new Member States became part of the European Union long before 1 May 2004.
This occurred because the advanced Western countries took advantage of their superior competitive position to break into the markets opening up in the eastern countries with an annual increase in their economic potential of about USD 50 billion.
This factor was one of the sources for economic growth in the advanced Western countries in the 1990s.
The existing Member States are on the one hand putting on a friendly face towards the new Member States, but on the other hand several Member States have imposed restrictions on the free movement of workers with respect to the new Member States.
And so, ladies and gentlemen, I should like quietly but insistently to urge you to make sensible decisions which will not disappoint the fragile expectations of the citizens of the new Member States following accession to the EU. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we must safeguard the European economic and social model.
They know that competitiveness and solidarity are key concepts in this connection, and realise that the Lisbon process must be perpetuated and strengthened.
We must continue to work on a better entrepreneurial climate, in which more people feel inclined to set up a business and also have the opportunities to do so.
Finally, I think we should closely examine the proposal for the internal market directive and fine-tune it where necessary, to avoid having to throw away the baby with the bath water in the social sphere.
The ten new countries that have joined us have demonstrated to us that it is possible to make structural changes and that it is necessary to dare stick to one's guns in order to achieve the long-term goals of peace, prosperity and a good social climate.
Let the journey they have travelled serve as an example to us and let us continue focusing on keeping the balance in Europe between the needs of a smoothly-running market and the wishes of the public. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is the right time to look at our economic policy from a broader viewpoint, to look squarely at the past of the Europe of the fifteen and at the future of the Europe of the twenty-five.
The first basic point which needs to be made is that the European Union does not have a legal basis for a common – truly common – economic policy, because the Union does not have the competence to make, it only has the competence to coordinate the economic policy of the Member States.
This fragmentation of economic policy is not something which can yield results under the conditions of globalisation in which we live today.
The accession of the ten new Member States gives us the opportunity for a bigger initiative, capable of inspiring our efforts.
The economies of eastern Europe can become the dynamo of the new European economy; all it needs is for us, old Europe, to find the courage and the inspiration to imitate the United States of America and mark the end of the cold war with a sort of Marshall plan for eastern Europe, as the USA did at the end of the Second World War.
As regards the big objective, it was given to us in the draft of the new European Constitution, which, for the first time in the history of the Treaties, included full employment in the basic Article 3 as one of the objective aims of the Union, at the same time rejecting the call by the European Central Bank for equal treatment of the objective of price stability.
We must restore this model if we are to bring Europe back to the path of its reconstruction. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this enlargement of the European Union is made historic by the attempt to get countries at very different levels of economic development to work together smoothly and effectively.
First, a balanced solution must be found concerning the problem of harmonising competitive conditions for enterprises in countries at different levels of economic development.
The movement of enterprises to regions with a lower tax burden destabilises developed societies.
Finding a balance that takes the interests of all the parties equally into account will, even with an in-depth grasp of economic policy and fine political sense, require great efforts in the coming years on the part of the Members of the European Parliament.
As a second challenge, I would highlight the integration of countries with different levels of development of public infrastructure with the conditions of the European economic and monetary union.
The funding of these investments would be possible at the expense of raising the level of taxes without contravening the basic conditions of the Stability and Growth Pact, but this would endanger the already low competitive ability of enterprises that are still in the build-up phase.
This means that if the single currency membership conditions as well as the need for retaining the competitiveness of enterprises are both strictly observed, the necessary development investments cannot be made.
Strengthening the unity of the European Union … &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there are many important rooms in our collective European home.
There are political, economic, cultural, spiritual rooms and also social rooms.
I am convinced that both the European social and economic model are extremely important, if not crucial, for the cohesion of the European Union.
The essence of this model could be boiled down to the simple statement that you have brought together both competition and solidarity.
According to data from research carried out by Pew Global Survey, the views held by both Eastern and Western Europeans, with regard to the market and the social system that should be guaranteed by the state, have a large number of points in common.
My reply is that it will.
We are now in the year 2004.
The harmonisation of the education and training policies of the European states is at a very low level, and the life-long learning concept is not spreading at the speed it should.
It would not be good for us to remain helpless in the face of this situation, without knowing what to do, but it would be even worse if, despite being able to see the way out, we did very little of what was needed.
Let us leave this as a legacy to our successors convening on 19 July: it will depend on their wisdom, determination and ability to cooperate whether the unfavourable processes can be reversed or the European social system will remain just a congenial experiment that is doomed to end in failure because of lack of economic support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have the honour of speaking in the European Parliament as one of the first Polish Members and as the first Member representing the Wielkopolska voivodship.
My fellow Members and I are setting fundamental goals for ourselves in the European Union.
We want a strong and sovereign Poland in a strong Europe.
It is also the reason why we are insisting that the Union’s budget be maintained at the existing level and not be reduced, and it is why we are calling for structural investment in the new Member States.
Inspired by them we believe that today a happy and peaceful Europe can also only be built in the name of God and Christian tradition.
The citizens of Poznan, Kalisz, Leszno, Pila, Konin, Gniezno, Wrzesnia, Gostyn, Koscian, Rawicz, Ostrow, Kolo, and many other Wielkopolska cities, towns, and villages will do everything in their power to ensure that Poland achieves success.
We aspire to success for ourselves as well as for the extremely large number of young people in Poland.
Their number has grown six-fold in the last few years.
It is for the sake of these young Poles that we are striving for a strong Poland in a strong Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of workers is one of the most important fundamental European rights.
The possibility for workers to move freely is important for both the employees and businesses alike.
One of the most important objectives of the Union that has now been enlarged to 25 Members is to significantly increase its competitiveness, and by doing so, to keep abreast with its most important challengers, the US and Japan.
The Lisbon Strategy that was created in 2000 covers this, and this objective must play a key role in the near future in national legislation and also in the European Parliament.
Unfortunately, during the last few months, this quite promising process has run aground, and the voices of those who, on the basis of some irrational fear, want to delay the free movement of workers have become louder.
We have all seen the labour market surveys that deal with the expected movement of workers from the ten new Member States.
These data show that barely one per&#160;cent of those in active employment expect to find employment in other Member States during the next few years.
Provisions made in respect of the stability of individual countries must always be based on specific surveys, and the question of the expected migration of workers from the new Member States must be addressed on an individual basis.
It is my belief that, if we want this enlargement to still be a real cause for celebration in the years to come, we have to meet our fellow-citizens’ expectations.
For that, then, there are three great guiding principles.
The first is this: where are we going, tomorrow, to create added value in the European Union?
In those Member States that were until very recently called ‘old Europe’ and are now part of the new Europe of twenty-five, there are great fears about relocations.
There will be no cohesion in Europe, nor will there be a consolidated social and economic model, if goods simply circulate without there being, as we have defined in the Charter, rights for all, which are a matter for the social responsibility of businesses or of an occupational social security scheme.
Finally, we will need real solidarity around a Budget that it will not be possible to confine, as some would have us do, within the meagre envelope of 1% of GNP.
There can, however, be no Budget solidarity without fiscal solidarity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, enlargement of the European Union from 15 to 25 Member States is resulting in inevitable changes to its economic, administrative, and social structure.
At the same time, however, there have been some very positive developments.
Internal competitiveness has increased, which will strengthen our external competitiveness.
Structural and economic changes in the ten new Member States are opening up great opportunities for development.
For the most part, these young people are, well educated citizens, prepared for the challenges of a modern economy.
This does not mean, however, that we must dispense with Europe’s social heritage, which is so important for our citizens.
These values are democracy, human rights, and security for the individual, including economic and social security.
They have to be the fundamental prerequisites and guidelines for the philosophy and development of the European Union. &#160;&#160; As a former trade unionistI would like to sayhow happy we are that the Social Charter has been incorporated into the draft European Constitution, given that this was something that I fought for when I was a member of the European Trade Union Confederation executive.
The majority of accession countries know they will have to look after themselves, as the Czech Republic has done.
I believe that the fifteen countries must not be afraid of a lot of money going to the countries that have now become Members, because the majority of the countries will have to help themselves, just as the Czech Republic did.
What should make the fifteen States nervous is the possibility of a social and fiscal dumping zone being created in that area.
According to many of our liberal policies, our countries will flourish if we turn them into areas of this nature.
We are against dismantling the social State in Europe, because that is what most attracts us to it.
I would like our fellow Members from the fifteen existing Member States to monitor closely the attacks on unions in recent times, the attacks in Slovakia, where they want to repeal the law on tri-partyism.
A liberalist wind, a single school of thought appeared to be attempting to destroy the idea of justice which brings dignity to politics in Europe and in our countries.
I am pleased that the Commissioner reaffirmed this point.
It points out, with regard to this way of life, what the major social democracies, the Christian school of thought in the social doctrine of the Church, have built in our countries, with different political experiences, since the early twentieth century; and indeed today we are different.
In my opinion, this has to be a prime objective, and in 20 years’ time we will be remembered not just for our history, our Christian roots and the beauty of our cities but also for having created a model of relations between people which is among the most advanced in our history.
I would like to extend my best wishes to the incoming MEPs for their work. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, in your speech you mentioned Finland, Sweden and Denmark as examples of this European economic and social model.
The excellent levels of social welfare in these countries are due very largely to high taxation, and that includes business tax, taxation on capital and income tax.
This kind of European prosperity is also based on tripartite agreements – we heard here how there are problems with this in some countries – as well as good labour relations and the fact that issues are discussed and lasting agreements are reached, with balanced growth achieved as a result.
We also have to ensure that this forthcoming services directive, which, after the elections in June, the elected Parliament will be debating, does nothing to promote dumping, something that was spoken of here, but adopts the laws and decrees of the country in which the services are being produced.
We really have to ensure that we achieve sustainable growth which also allows us to look to the future.
I have followed many debates and also contributed to various topics, including tabling an amendment that was formally introduced by a fellow MEP.
This amendment to the third cohesion report was adopted in committee and then in plenary.
It is a vibrant example of the opportunity that was given to the accession countries to participate in and influence decisions even prior to membership.
The concept of providing a helping hand to regions and countries that are lagging behind other areas of the Union is an excellent example of solidarity in practice, which forms such an essential part of the European Union.
If one were to ask what the essential characteristics of the European economic and social model are, one would definitely have to include this aspect of support for cohesion and sustainable development, with due consideration given to the quality of life of EU citizens.
However, it also important to focus on a distribution of income that is just and equitable.
The scourge of unemployment and job instability within the European Union still defies the many action plans and initiatives for economic and social reforms launched in the past.
Poverty is still with us and the traditional social security systems are threatened.
The enlarged European Union presents a whole range of regional and subregional social economic scenarios.
Each has its own specificities and each is in need of its own tailor-made action plan to help attract investment, create jobs, maintain its competitive edge and attract new growth sectors, while ensuring social stability and sustainable growth levels.
Coming as I do from the smallest Member State, which is an island state, I am very conscious that EU-wide economic and social policies applied indiscriminately on a 'one-size-fits-all' basis do not invariably bring about the desired results either in job creation or in a better quality of life for our citizens.
This is why I strongly believe that, to be successful, the future EU economic and social model should have ingrained within it the possibility to be flexible and be applied in a tailor-made fashion to specific sites and situations, as well as being endowed with the necessary flexibility in its application to be effective under different socio-economic scenarios.
Only in this way can we really hope to see further job creation, better quality of life, more prosperity, better social cohesion and more stability within the future enlarged European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my joy at being able to address you now as a full Member of this House from Hungary.
Even 20 years ago, the representatives of the Hungarian National Party regarded the achievement of close union with the countries of the western half of Europe as their main objective.
Not only the difficulties associated with the closure of industrial production but also the disadvantages associated with changes in agricultural production, and even in tourism, must be taken into consideration.
We can say that we are ready to join the European Union, but further major economic and social changes are required.
The other political party in Hungary talks about modernisation.
Our wish is to be part of this. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the EU’s economic and social policy is important, and the European model is based upon a balance between growth, union rights, good conditions in the labour market and sustainable development.
It is at least as important that trade unions exert influence upon developments in individual workplaces and so achieve better working environments.
I believe that it can be a success and a win-win situation.
It is therefore important that we not compete with one other through social dumping, poorer working conditions or tax dumping that undermines our welfare systems, but that we maintain a high level of rights in the labour market and where our welfare systems are concerned.
I am optimistic, but such optimism depends upon maintaining the balance in the social model. &#160;&#160; Latvia is proud to be a full member of the European Union's family of nations and that we can work together in a unified way for the good of all of Europe.
We have also encountered various problems, however, which are becoming especially relevant in the context of the common European economy and social policy.
We call on Europe to take similar action, because only then will we be able to tackle the social problems that threaten all of Europe, which are related to the demographic crisis and the inevitable ageing of the population and the growth in the economic burden on the working population.
Economic and social welfare is not conceivable without the welfare of families all over Europe, because the welfare of the child is dependent on the welfare of the family and that is the basis of a strong, secure and prosperous Europe.
Therefore today I want to call on you, in debating every issue of economic and social policy, to devote particular attention to the basic value and the foundation of society – the family. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, today is the first time that Members of Parliament from the new EU Member States have been able to put their opinions forward.
Nevertheless, it is of course an honour for me to appear before the European Parliament.
We are the living proof that, if the social aspects of the market economy are ignored, along with the effects of experimental reforms on the population, and if the invisible hand of the market is continually overemphasised, it is one hundred per&#160;cent certain that the result will be enormous differences in standards of living and enormous differences between regions.
Full compliance with the European economic and social model may act as an emergency brake for some Member States.
The introduction of restrictions on the free movement of workers has not been the best of contributions to the European economic and social model.
These experiences must help us to ensure the continued existence of the values and principles that form part of the ‘European model’.
Indeed, because it was not only the Beveridge plan, but also a degree of competition that led to the principles and values that humanised the use of the workforce being enshrined.
The principles and values of a new way forward are, from now on, those of genuine solidarity, of peace, of mutual respect of a democracy, which is not confined to the act of voting, but which extends to the citizens, the workers and the people actually participating. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Dimas, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that compared to many areas of the earth, the European economic and social model is as successful as it is, because, in the past, we have developed an economically viable and environmentally friendly transport policy, with sensible general conditions for employees.
I am assuming that the new Member States will quickly implement the European regulations in the transport sector, if they have not already done so, in order that the internal market in transport may become a reality in all areas of the European Union.
I hope that together we will be able to press ahead with and further develop the European transport policy in the next Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, until recently I was an observer in this House.
Today I am a fully-fledged Member of the European Parliament.
The Fifteen old Member States used Article&#160;23 of the Treaty of Accession concluded between Poland and the European Union to further their own interests.
The conditions applicable to Polish agriculture established in Copenhagen in December 2002 were changed to our disadvantage.
I am happy we are meeting as friends and in peace again in the European Union and in Parliament.
If no agreement is reached on the European Constitution within an enlarged Europe, this major entity could also break up.
My generation was, therefore, not free to decide which social and economic system it would like to live under.
I believe that the future social system will be based on solidarity and love for one’s fellow man.
According to this strategy, a strong economy will stimulate the creation of jobs and will encourage social and environmental policies ensuring sustainable development and social cohesion, which boils down to something that is not the work of a genius and is almost a truism, and, for students of economics and all the acolytes of the social market economy, a post-war concept.
Above all, I hope that the new Parliament, to be elected on 13&#160;June, will be able, on the basis of this evidence, to save the European social model as an integral part of the aims and objectives of European integration, even if it means that these have to be redefined by all the political and social actors, among whom this House will have a leading role and primary responsibility.
Nonetheless, the strategic choice about economic and social prosperity is the right choice.
For the new Member States in general, they are undergoing and facing, as far as the implementation of structural reforms is concerned, the same challenges which the older Member States faced.
Furthermore, I should like to stress once again what I said at the beginning of my speech, that economies with a large degree of unification and interdependence, which share a common market need efficient coordination in making and implementing economic policy, both at national level and at the level of the European Union.
All the constituent elements of the economic coordinating framework are closely connected to this overall strategy.
Over the past five years the Commission and Parliament have together followed a path in which Parliament’s constructive contribution and cooperation, often in very difficult circumstances and with very tight deadlines, will certainly be one of the defining characteristics of this legislature.
Recent Eurobarometer surveys, carried out for the Commission, have shown a general desire on the part of the citizens for more Europe.
Those expectations are greater still against the backdrop of an enlarged Europe of 455&#160;million inhabitants.
These two concepts are inextricably linked and the Commission has always sought to strike a balance between freedom and security.
The third element of this area is, of course, justice, which helps to protect freedom and to guarantee security in an area in which mobility and relationships between people and companies across national borders is increasingly common.
Today, many EU citizens still fear enlargement’s potential impact on security.
It is important that we address those fears rationally.
The process of enlargement has made it possible to strengthen the new Member States’ ability to contribute towards developing stability and security throughout the European Union, not only because they have access to the Community but also because of the improvements in the police and the judiciary that the Commission has supported during these last five years.
The Commission will carry out its usual role of guardian of the Treaties and will continue to offer significant financial assistance as a follow-up to the PHARE projects, which will continue until 2006, and, subsequently, by means of a Schengen mechanism and transitional arrangements.
The Commission has carried out a study showing that over the next five years, around 1% of the total working population of the new Member States will exercise the right to move freely, which amounts to 220&#160;000 people per year, in an EU of over 450&#160;million inhabitants.
I should like to mention, based on my own personal experience, that, on the eve of Spain and Portugal joining the EU, similar fears were raised, which turned out to be completely unfounded.
The Accession Treaty provides for the possibility of the current Fifteen Member States implementing transitional measures.
The timetabled development of SIS-II therefore constitutes a priority for the Commission and will require the active involvement of all Member States.
In the field of judicial cooperation, mutual trust becomes even more crucial in an enlarged Europe, to ensure that the principle of the mutual recognition of judicial decisions applies across the board.
Accordingly, we must improve certain measures contained in procedural law, such as those provided for in the framework decision on procedural safeguards in criminal proceedings, which the Commission has just submitted to the Council.
Lastly, as regards the policies of Justice and Home Affairs, we face a number of challenges.
One of those is visa policy and, more specifically, the principle of reciprocity in this area, an issue to which the Commission has paid close attention.
The draft Constitutional Treaty addresses these challenges, and proposes that qualified majority voting be introduced in the area of common immigration policy, asylum and external borders, and that the provisions be strengthened as regards integrating third country nationals residing legally in the European Union.
The principle of solidarity, which already applies today, will be more clearly laid down in the Constitutional text concerning border controls, asylum and immigration.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to recall, lastly, that 1&#160;May is not only the date of the accession of the ten new Member States but also the deadline set in the Treaty of Amsterdam for completing the first stage of the phasing-in of the area of freedom, security and justice.
The Commission will soon submit a communication in which it assesses the progress made in the past five years and which will include the first guidelines for future priorities.
Freedom, security and justice.
In my view, these are areas in which the urgent need to confront the profound changes which are approaching in a Europe of 450&#160;million citizens and which, unfortunately, as we can see, sometimes moves forward as a result of such tragic events as terrorist attacks and the regrettable deaths of the victims of immigration, has been demonstrated.
I would therefore like to emphasise everything the Commissioner has just said on this point.
We have worked intensively over the last five years to enshrine the guarantees and protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens, and the results can be seen, such as the approval of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the steps aimed at approving common guarantees in criminal proceedings throughout the Union and the implementation of the European arrest warrant, a guarantor for one of our principle rights, which is the right of society to pursue relentlessly those who endanger the lives and security of the citizens.
Without forgetting the protection of the victims of crime and particularly the victims of terrorism.
Finally, I believe that the new European Constitution must enshrine the hope represented by the chapter aimed at the regulation of this new area, that is, we must bring the legal instruments into line with the reality of the dangers currently threatening the freedom and security of the citizens.
It only remains for me, Mr President, to thank your Presidency and the Commissioner for your invaluable contribution to the defence of the values and rights of a society such as ours which wishes to feel increasingly free within a new enlarged area, in which security and justice, in turn, also provide the guarantees for that freedom. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by paying tribute to Commissioner Vitorino.
I hope that is not true and that those Members who return to the new Parliament will again have the pleasure of working with him.
He has worked closely with us in our committee on a very difficult dossier and very challenging topics.
This includes the rights, for example, of the Roma people in some of the Eastern European countries.
The Commissioner was right when he said that enlargement is a real challenge and it is not one that we have by any means addressed yet.
That must continue and include freedom of the press – not closing down newspapers, as we have seen in some countries.
The right to access asylum must be reinforced, because we in this Parliament and the Commission are guardians of those rights: the right to asylum for those in need.
The Commission is one of the guardians of those Treaties and of those rights.
If there is anyone listening who is in a position to look for a new President of the Commission, my suggestion – for what it is worth – would be you, Commissioner Vitorino.
This is why the European Union is one of the most successful, most attractive ventures, as is demonstrated by the present enlargement, because the new Member States and those that will join in the future have chosen Europe largely because of these values.
Over the last few months in all the Member States and yesterday here, in this room, we have all been celebrating the enlargement.
We could freely celebrate the enlargement; we had good reason to do so.
Those affected will be well-trained young single people, 85% of whom want to find employment in other countries for just one or two years.
The European Union wants to become a region of growth and competitiveness, and the Lisbon Process aims to achieve this.
Without this, Europe will never achieve the targets for 2010 set out in the Lisbon Process.
Furthermore, freedoms have been mentioned, and the European Parliament is the highest manifestation of the largest democratic concentration in the world, but I believe it is clear that the freedoms of the peoples, regions and nationalities existing within the European Union must also be guaranteed.
As a Valencian and as a representative of a people which forms part of the European Union, I believe that this Europe of security and freedom must take full account of the national freedoms of the peoples and regions that make up the European Union. &#160;&#160; Given that we are talking about the issue of security, I shall talk about external security.
I am convinced the task that the new Member States are facing is to prove their ability to have a wider view.
When we talk about security, we should bear in mind that our security is influenced by our immediate surroundings, by our neighbouring countries, by North African countries and by the Middle East.
These people can easily fall under the influence of fundamentalist and extremist ideology and become themselves tools of terrorism, which is today the number one threat.
If the European Union wants to ensure the security of its citizens it must, amongst other things, make its closest neighbours economically and politically stable by increasing their economic growth, reduce the possibility of migration and reduce the growth of radicalism in these societies.
Not only because a 15-year old would have had difficulty in becoming a Member of the European Parliament, but also because at that time we did not see the slightest possibility of Hungary becoming a member of the secure and free region provided by the European Union.
In the twenty-first century, our freedom and our security have often been in irreconcilable conflict with each other.
Everybody would like to avoid challenges that threaten the security of one’s nation, but nobody wants to damage our civil, political and social rights won during the eighteenth century and strengthened by many revolutions, including the 1848 and 1956 Hungarian revolutions.
It is difficult to solve these conflicts, but I believe that the Members of the enlarged European Union, together with the citizens of Europe, will be able to find the answers.
The European area of security and the Schengen Agreement provide protection for us.
At the same time, we must not forget that the borders of Europe are not the same as the borders of the European Union.
In our efforts to make the Union safe, we must not ignore our solidarity with those nations whose representatives do not sit here with us at the moment.
Europe, and within Europe, the European Union will only be able to become a great and strong community if its responsibility to ensure its safety goes hand in hand with its unquenchable desire for freedom as well.
Among many other things, we bring our faith and our readiness to act for a Europe that is free, secure and based on solidarity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would also like to pay tribute to the work of Commissioner Vitorino over the last five years.
In justice and home affairs there is not the same sense of zeal from ministers about promoting freedom as about promoting security.
But the Council has failed to speak out against Guantanamo Bay internment and is trying to impose an agreement with the US on air passenger data transfers in breach of European data protection laws.
In the accession treaties there is a JHA safeguard clause, but it is focused exclusively on monitoring implementation of mutual recognition measures and framework decisions in criminal law.
On immigration we need much better management in the future.
The ceremony of raising the ten new flags yesterday was wonderful and moving, but the image it presented was exclusively white.
This is a major problem because it seems that the rule of law is being pushed aside in the fight against terrorism.
Today we had to vote for the third time on what was basically the same issue.
Regarding the issue of Christianity versus Islam there is a major problem.
Everybody should be entitled to equal rights.
There is a lot of hypocrisy regarding people from the new Member States.
All 15 of the 'old' Member States have introduced measures restricting the rights of the new countries' citizens coming in as regards whether they can get jobs, travel or benefit from social services in the 'old' Member States.
Finally, on the issue of third country nationals, we have a major problem throughout the European Union with this 'Fortress Europe' mentality, keeping out the so-called non-desirables: non-whites, non-westerners or non-Christians.
In all countries we have a major problem with more and more oppressive legislation being introduced.
Even things like the Geneva Convention are being pushed aside in the interests of keeping people out of Europe.
We have to allow Europe to be open and we must help these people.
That is the way to look at peace, security and justice for all. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise to say a few words of farewell.
For the past 25 years I have been a Member of this House, elected at the top of the poll from Northern Ireland.
In our history superpowers have always been detrimental to peace.
I especially welcome the fact that the United Kingdom will have its referendum and that the ordinary European citizens in the United Kingdom will not be robbed of their right to pass their judgement on this momentous decision.
The continent of Europe is not our fatherland and never can be.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the eastern enlargement of our European Union on 1&#160;May, to what are now 25 countries did not happen overnight, but was a ten-year-long process, which demanded an enormous amount both of the old European Union as well as of the new Member States.
In the area of justice and home affairs, many citizens of the old EU Member States were afraid of a higher crime rate after enlargement.
The new Member States were also very successful in the area of combating national crime, and so the old Member States often had to abandon their prejudices.
After the attacks of 11&#160;September in New York, we saw what was, unfortunately, a one-off advance in our common justice and home affairs policy, with a great deal decided on in record time: the European Arrest Warrant, a single definition of terrorism, which included a framework for penalties and the freezing of all funds for terrorist purposes.
In the Council, the position of Terrorism Coordinator was quickly created, unfortunately without any real powers.
The upshot is that Parliament and the European Union have done our homework but the Member States have not and so the next important questions are already on the agenda for a now enlarged Union.
Border protection standards must be unified and controlled by a European border protection agency and the second generation Schengen Information System must finally be completed.
Europol must be even more closely involved in the national fight against crime and be given more manpower, and we urgently need the European Public Prosecutor, in order to effectively combat the defrauding of the European Union.
Cooperation with third countries must also be stepped up since terrorism must be combated, not just in Europe, but also across the world.
We have, in this legislative period, achieved a number of things for the safety of European citizens.
The EU of 25 Member States will in future only be in a position to effectively combat terrorism and organised crime if we implement simpler and more transparent procedures.
The Council in particular must change over to majority voting.
We did not always agree on asylum issues, but we always gave you great support where justice and home affairs policy was concerned and I hope it was this that brought forth applause from the Left, since that shows that in the future we will be in a position to act together and be stronger than we were before. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first of all I should like to welcome the first decision taken today by the enlarged European Parliament, which rejected the Council's effort to re-table the issue of the conclusion of an agreement on the processing and transmission of personal data on European passengers from airline companies to the US State Department.
The question of freedom and security in the Europe of the twenty-five, which we are debating today, is directly linked, Commissioner, to the security of the Olympic Games being organised in Greece this summer.
The holding of the Games under conditions of security has always been the only headache, even from ancient times, which is why the truce was the most serious part of the preparations, so that athletes and spectators could arrive at Olympia in safety.
I believe, even if this sounds romantic, that the promotion of the idea of the truce in modern times and the education of people in peaceful coexistence would cost far less and would have more permanent results than strengthening the forces of suppression and the use of military means.
For the Europe of the twenty-five, the 2004 Olympic Games are a golden opportunity to promote the idea of the truce at global level, by which I mean the ideals of peace, cooperation and dialogue and the rejection of violence as a means of resolving differences.
The European Union of the twenty-five needs to offer an alternative proposal, a new vision and to reply to the crucial question of whether there can be security on a planet with huge inequalities in economic and social development and in the distribution of the benefits of democracy, science and technology.
For the strengthening of security in the European Union, for a more secure world, we certainly need fresh, alternative, non-military policies and strategies and a stronger role for citizens, especially women.
Finally, I too should like, Commissioner, to congratulate you on the exceptional work you are doing as Commissioner to promote the area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union, an endeavour which has, unfortunately, proven to be far more difficult than the creation of the single market and the common currency. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, in our solemn speeches, we say that we are all minorities in the EU.
The monitoring of minority rights was an important part of the negotiations on enlargement, yet there is no policy for linguistic minorities in the EU.
We have demanded more of the present candidate countries than we did of previous ones.
The situation in Cyprus following the referendum was also the most recent demonstration of the need we have for minimum rules governing the way in which ethnic and linguistic minorities are treated and governing the rights that must exist.
It is therefore important that respect for diversity be a feature of the adopted Constitution and that the EU subscribe not only to the Council of Europe’s Convention on Human Rights but also to the Council of Europe’s conventions on minorities: both the framework convention and the Charter for Regional Languages.
In that way, the EU would quickly obtain a yardstick for policy in relation to minorities.
It should be possible to deal with infringements of minority rights in accordance with Article&#160;7 of our present Treaty, in which case a Member State’s own rights would be revoked if it infringed minority rights.
The threat to freedom comes from within our country – violence is increasing, organised crime, terrorism and corruption are the most direct threats to freedom, to various human rights.
For a long time now the criminal world has not recognised borders, so cooperation between various security bodies in the European Union, as well as beyond its borders, is especially important.
The European Parliament must do everything in its power to ensure this cooperation.
We must not allow a situation where fear is the defining factor in people's thought and action, where we would be prepared to yield, to compromise with those who do not respect us, because of fear.
The rights of national minorities are an inalienable component of fundamental rights.
Let us be honest, serious problems in this sphere remain in both the old and the new Member States, including my own country, Latvia.
These issues were included in the Copenhagen criteria for accession.
It has already been mentioned today that the draft Constitution included a Charter of Fundamental Rights and that the draft Constitution makes reference to minority rights.
I believe that we, the elected representatives of Europeans, in cooperation with other European organisations, primarily the Council of Europe, will be able to successfully resolve this extremely important challenge. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, as you know, organised crime is growing very strongly.
The current enlargement of the European Union means that 450 million citizens now find themselves in an area of incomparably greater freedom, security, stability, and progress.
This demonstrates that the clear offer of such an opportunity can influence the entire domestic and foreign policy of a country seeking to join the Community.
It therefore constitutes one of the most effective instruments at the Union’s disposal, and can result in increasing the range of freedoms available to its citizens and their security.
There is, however, a risk that following the current enlargement, the European Union may concentrate solely or mainly on strengthening the integration process instead of exerting an effective influence on its neighbours.
The new Member States, including Poland, could be very helpful in this regard.
This includes Turkey.
Despite the many current political, cultural, and economic concerns, we should keep membership open to all those willing to fulfil the criteria for joining the European Union.
Finally, I would like to highlight that the policy of increasing freedom and security we are discussing here today and about which Commissioner Vitorino spoke, is provided for by the provisions of the draft Constitutional Treaty.
I have in mind Article&#160;58, concerning the European Union and its immediate vicinity, as well as the provisions on the crucial pillars respecting freedom and security.
I would therefore like to state that in my opinion, this draft should be implemented as quickly as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Vitorino, over the last five years the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice has constituted a large part of the work of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and we can certainly say that there have been major reforms and tangible progress towards granting increasingly extensive rights to citizens.
Now, as several of my fellow Members have said, the borders of this new European Union have expanded eastwards and down towards the Mediterranean Sea.
The instruments to put these synergies into practice are called Europol and Eurojust, which we must support with conviction and, in brief, with adequate resources.
Only in this way can we fight, all together, the dangers threatening the area of freedom, security and justice: illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, prostitution, drugs and organised crime multinationals; at the top of the list, though, is one obligation: the fight against terrorism.
Our Union, now enlarged to twenty-five countries, has greater political, geographical and economic substance.
We have begun to share our common interests, both in the area of the economy and the internal market, and in terms of the responsibilities that we face as regards the threats to stability and security, which are not confined to borders.
I refer to terrorism, organised crime, illegal immigration, drug trafficking and trafficking in human beings.
The question of terrorism is an alarming problem that we currently face and should be given maximum priority.
This is a threat to security, to our democracies and to the foundations of our civilisation; more specifically respect for human dignity, liberty, democracy, equality, respect for the law and respect for human rights are under threat.
The European Union must do all that it can to protect its citizens, to tighten border controls and to improve security as regards travel documents, by introducing biometric data and by establishing visa systems and the Schengen Information System (SIS-II).
A new institutional framework is now in force: in the area of visas, asylum and immigration, codecision with Parliament will enter into force, as will qualified majority voting in the Council.
Commissioner Vitorino, who is here today, deserves praise for his excellent work in this area and his positive attitude towards working together with Parliament.
It is my wish that the excellent work that he has done here helps him to rise to even higher responsibilities in our Community of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the right to freedom of movement, that is, the right to select one’s place of residence, both in the professional and in the private sense, is one of the many important fundamental freedoms and rights enjoyed by the Union’s citizens from the beginning of its existence.
They have been quick to exercise this right, and have enjoyed doing so from the very first day.
Over the course of the next five years, economic migration from the new countries of the Union to the old should not exceed 1% of the population of the ten new Members.
The experience of previous enlargements suggests enlargement caused a reduction in the number of economic migrants, rather than an increase.
The citizens of the new Member States want to find work in their own countries, and they believe that membership of the Union will help them to do so.
Further, the new Members of the Union would see it as a tangible sign that they too may enjoy the full rights and freedoms available to the citizens of the entire European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as a member of the Convention on the future of Europe, I participated in the development of the Constitutional Treaty.
May I therefore take this opportunity to express the hope that the new Constitutional Treaty will be adopted this year and that the procedures for endorsing the Constitutional Treaty in the Member States will take place within a reasonable time span.
As a member of the Convention I particularly wanted the Charter of human rights and freedoms to become an integral part of the Constitutional Treaty.
At the same time this is a clear sign that we have joined a community of democratic States which respect and safeguard human rights and freedoms.
I see Europe as a flourishing community, in which peace, prosperity and the security of people and property are not merely political slogans but a reality.
We must do everything to ensure that terrorism and crime do not grow but are fundamentally reduced.
It is also important that we cooperate in controlling the external borders of the European Union effectively and that balanced assistance is given to those States that bear the greatest burden in this respect.
Firstly, on a personal level, I would like to thank those Members of Parliament who addressed kind words to me.
It has been a very rewarding experience to cooperate so closely and so fruitfully with this Parliament, and especially with the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
It is a question of deep belief that the area of freedom, security and justice will, in the years to come, be in the driving seat of the European integration process.
I am sure that Members of Parliament will go back to their electorates in June and feel proud of the work they have done in this area over the last five years.
Finally, Mr President, due to the fact that you personally have chaired most of the meetings I have attended in this Parliament, I feel privileged to that you have been my private chairman!
The debate is now closed.
