Multi-annual programme 2010-2014 regarding the area of freedom, security and justice (Stockholm Programme) (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the multi-annual programme 2010-2014 regarding the area of freedom, security and justice (Stockholm Programme).
The new programme has been preceded by a long preparatory process that was started more than two years ago by the future groups.
The programme will be based on the Commission communication, but also on the many opinions that have been put forward by national parliaments, civil society and various EU bodies and agencies during the process.
The European Parliament's attitude to the future cooperation is important, particularly in view of the greater role that Parliament will have as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The vision of the Stockholm Programme is for a safer and more open Europe where the rights of individuals are protected.
The needs of citizens, of individuals, will form the basis for future cooperation in this area in a way that is much more evident than it was previously.
Future cooperation in this area must also be based on a better balance between measures aimed at creating a safe and secure Europe and measures aimed at protecting the rights of individuals.
Drugs trafficking, people-trafficking and terrorism are a reality on our continent, while at the same time, we have new types of crime, as a result of the internet, for example.
Well-developed police cooperation, an efficient exchange of information and experience and well-developed working methods are fundamental in dealing with these problems.
A prerequisite for Member States wishing to recognise and enforce the judgments and decisions of other States is that there is mutual trust in one another's legal systems.
Citizens who become victims of crime in their own country or in another Member State should receive relevant information in a language that they understand and be offered adequate support, information and protection prior to, during and after criminal proceedings.
One specific issue is the review of the Brussels I Regulation on recognition and enforcement of judgments from other Member States.
Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to begin by thanking the European Parliament for its very constructive cooperation in respect of the European Asylum Support Office.
For example, we have taken decisions on joint legislation with regard to the first foundations of a common immigration policy and a common asylum system.
The EU's role as a global player in this area should therefore be strengthened, and particular focus should be placed on partnership and cooperation with third countries.
Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Treaty of Lisbon.
The ordinary legislative procedure that is being introduced will mean that the European Parliament is given a greater role in the legislative process in a number of areas.
As my colleague Mrs Ask said, we now look forward to hearing your views.
You are going to become colegislators now in virtually all areas of justice and home affairs, and it is therefore true that this parliamentarisation of the European Union represents increased powers for the European Parliament in the decision-making process, but also greater control by the national parliaments of their respective governments.
As you stress in your resolution, we must come up with a comprehensive data protection system that incorporates technological developments.
The Commission will present a communication on this subject in 2010.
I also believe that we will have to cover all of the Union's policies with this comprehensive data protection system.
The Union must remain at the forefront on this issue.
That is why we will present an action plan on unaccompanied minors in early 2010.
A proposal will be submitted in 2010 on the basis of the outcome of the consultations carried out.
We have made a commitment in the Stockholm Programme: at least half of the judges and the prosecutors in the Union will have to have received European training or have taken part in an exchange with another Member State.
The Commission will also submit proposals on this issue, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the Treaty of Lisbon.
As Mr Billström rightly pointed out just now, immigration policy must be part of a long-term vision for optimising the contribution that migrants make to economic and social development.
We must also prevent and reduce illegal immigration while showing respect for human rights and human dignity.
On the subject of asylum, I support your call for genuine solidarity between the Member States.
The Union must become a true common and united area of protection, based on respect for fundamental rights and for high standards of protection, and asylum must be offered, as Mr Billström said, in accordance with the same criteria in Europe.
Solidarity among Member States and, in particular, towards those who receive the largest numbers of refugees, must be demonstrated in full.
We must reduce the considerable gap between the standards and policies adopted at European level and their application at national level.
Today, therefore, is a day of joy for me, when we have the opportunity to debate the programmes for the next five years, when we will be able to deliberate on this future as a European Parliament on an equal legislative footing.
The new treaty gives us the opportunity to table legislative initiatives.
If we have competence, we must also consider which subject areas would be better dealt with at the national or regional level.
The Union will be more open, more effective and more democratic.
The main challenge and priority is to secure fundamental rights and freedoms as well as integrity and security in Europe through fully supporting effective implementation and sufficient respect for and improvement of existing legal instruments, while taking into account the protection of human rights and civic freedoms.
It must also be our strategy to strengthen police cooperation and the enforcement of rights as well as improving security in Europe.
In relation to migration and asylum policy, civil rights and data protection, the need for security in Europe has been prioritised ahead of human rights and freedom.
It is being openly suggested that more freedom in Europe would automatically lead to less security.
Fear is being stoked here, and not - as it says in the programme - justified fear of organised crime or terrorism, but fear of our fellow human beings here in Europe, fear of those who want to come to Europe and, above all, fear of anything that we think in some way foreign.
Send out a message here and now in favour of human rights and in favour of freedom - including to your governments - and vote in favour of all our amendments.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, the motion for a resolution to which we are referring in this debate is a perfect example, I have to say, of the European Parliament at its worst.
Let me stress that we, too, want to see greater cooperation in the quest to find solutions, and to have solidarity on immigration and in fighting corruption and exchanging information, but this should not necessarily be at the cost of national sovereignty, nor should it be overly prescriptive.
Applying the 1951 United Nations Convention on Refugees all over Europe in a proper manner is still the best way of dealing with asylum issues.
Allow me, as an MEP from eastern Germany, to conclude by observing that I find it insufferable, 20 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, that Europe is coming more and more to resemble a fortress.
However, all that is due not to Rule 51 itself, but rather to the very short deadlines that we gave ourselves in order to have a document that we could submit to the Council summit taking place on 10 December.
I therefore believe that, in view of the fact that it was not supposed to detail down to the finest particulars the implementation of the Stockholm Programme, but only to formulate general outlines, this document is certainly a positive step.
Fortunately, those days are gone; and so, in my opinion, no Member State of the European Union should be refusing to recognise a marriage legally contracted in another Member State, and that includes marriages between two people of the same sex.
It is high time Parliament recognised this for once. (PT) Mr President, I believe that this Parliament would welcome a concrete and concise Stockholm Programme which is capable of really promoting a Europe of citizens.
The document talks about 'making people's lives easier: a Europe of law and justice'.
Andrew Symeou, a 20-year-old London man, was extradited to Greece this summer on a manslaughter charge.
One thing is clear, and that is that we should indeed have harmonisation, but Europe must not become a land of self-service asylum policy. (MT) We consider the issue of justice, freedom and security as the European Union's next big project.
For example, our priorities in the area of immigration lie in the fight against illegal immigration as well as a common asylum policy that is built upon true and obligatory solidarity.
We believe in this principle; however, we also believe in the subsidiarity principle, meaning that we are also under obligation to respect national sensitivities in the European Union's Member States.
We must not forget that this Union is built upon unity in diversity and not unity in homogeneity. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two innovations have been introduced by the Stockholm Programme as compared with the Hague Programme: a fair balance between rights and security and legal protection in both the criminal and the civil spheres.
Think of Guantánamo.
The Treaty of Lisbon has not yet entered into force, but it is here, and present.
I also have a constituent, Andrew Symeou, who has been in jail in Greece since July, refused bail because he was a foreigner.
However, the European Union is adopting and applying measures which upset the balance between security and rights, result in the creation of bodies to monitor and collect all sorts of personal data and insult our dignity by making suspects of us all.
The principle of mutual recognition, which is, to me, a fundamental one, requires mutual trust, but also confidence in the legal systems of other countries, as has been talked about here today.
So I am very pleased that Mrs Ask and Mr Barroso have spoken about this.
The Stockholm Programme can be regarded as a pragmatic action plan for a more secure and open Europe based on common values, principles and actions.
I would like to reflect on the PES campaign 'Put the Children First'.
My political intention is to assure equal rights and engagement within the European Union to all citizens.
Considerable progress has been made over the last 15 years, but there are still many weaknesses.
Citizens must be able to move freely and to make full use of their rights in this area without internal borders.
We fight our progressive corner and, for our group, we will fight for our progressive policies.
We will only do that when we vote through the Stockholm Programme.
The building of a Europe of citizens means a real area of freedom, security and justice.
Contrary to certain more radical views, I believe that all three are necessary.
Nevertheless, it is important to ensure that these targets are met.
The legislation and instruments that have been adopted must be implemented effectively.
Finally, I would like to give a warning about fundamentalist application of the principle of subsidiarity.
While cooperation with GRECO and the Council of Europe is essential, the European Union's standards on anti-corruption are higher than those of the Council of Europe which, as we all know, has 47 Member States.
The Stockholm Programme should, therefore, establish a number of incentives, and should concentrate on these areas.
Freedom of movement must go hand in hand with the movement of knowledge and information about possible dangers, in order to give adequate protection to society, including those most at risk, in this case children.
This especially concerns making the fight against organised crime effective, and means that rulings made in one country would allow assets hidden by a criminal in another country to be traced and then confiscated effectively.
In closing, I would like to express my esteem for the document which has been prepared, and to stress that the aim of the programme should be to improve the cooperation of Member States while retaining the national character of their legal systems.
Just as Commissioner Barrot said, the European Union must continue to stand up for children's rights.
In my opinion, the success of the Stockholm Programme can be gauged by the respect shown for four issues: the existence of concrete achievements benefiting the citizens; scrupulous respect for the new role of the European Parliament - codecision being an element of added value; the quality of the application of the Stockholm Programme by the national parliaments; and the awareness of its values among the citizens, and especially among Europe's young people.
I am very pleased to see the commitment that you are showing in respect of these important issues.
Today's debate has been a little bit confused - if I may say so - as some people have been referring to the Stockholm Programme but they were really talking about the interesting proposal for a resolution that you will debate and take a decision on in Parliament, in other words, your views on the draft that the Presidency has tabled.
There are also a few political issues that I would just like to mention.
In this case, we have two choices: the first is to tell our citizens to stay at home, because we always have the best legal systems at home.
I think that the proposal that is currently under discussion takes a very clear position in that EU cooperation in the areas of justice and home affairs should constitute an added value.
Lastly, I would like to talk about the issue of privacy and data protection, which is a major and important debate.
He also compared what we are working on in this area with the situation in the former East Germany and in the communist states that used to exist in Europe.
In East Germany, there was no data protection, no democracy and there were no fundamental rights for citizens - three important factors that are fundamental to our cooperation.
As regards the Stockholm Programme, we are strengthening and tightening up the regulations for data protection and respect for the rights of individuals, and democracy, too, in a number of different respects.
One word that has, of course, come up time and again in the political talks on asylum and migration issues in recent years has been solidarity.
Mrs Keller mentioned this in her speech.
I think it is important to emphasise that the European Parliament will be involved to the very highest degree in all of these aspects now that we have the Treaty of Lisbon in place, and democratic control will increase in these areas.
Theirs is an extremely interesting piece of work and it will help us, and the Swedish Presidency, to provide a definitive version of this Stockholm Programme.
As Mr Busuttil said, it is true that the citizens have an internal market, but they do not really have an area of justice, security and freedom, even if, thanks to the Schengen area, freedom of movement has now been established.
I would like to say that this text seems fairly balanced to me.
This is where Europe can bring added value.
I am also keen to stress that we have made progress in terms of procedural guarantees, as Mrs Ask explained very well, and this is a very important element of the Stockholm Programme.
I simply wish to say that this Stockholm Programme is, as Mrs Ask said, very pragmatic, that it will thus lend itself to an action plan that the Spanish Presidency is going to implement, and you, ladies and gentlemen, are henceforth going to be colegislators.
Written statements (Rule 149) The defence and promotion of human rights have seen a decline in their importance on the EU agenda in recent years, with Member States' security becoming the political priority.
The Tampere and the Hague Programmes provided major political impetus in consolidating these policies.
in writing. - (HU) During the drafting of the Stockholm Programme, our aim was to make Europe's citizens aware of the tangible benefits of an area of freedom, security and justice.
It is the joint responsibility of the EU's institutions and Member States to change this situation.
The Stockholm Programme obliges the European Commission to present a proposal for accession of the European Union to the European Convention on Human Rights.
In reference to point 16 of the motion for a resolution, I appeal for a prompt commencement of negotiations on accession of the EU to the European Convention on Human Rights.
The citizens of Poland should be able to enjoy these rights in the same way that the citizens of other EU Member States enjoy them.
I would like to mention just one of these discriminatory measures, which affects traditional national minorities.
