I am sure that I speak for all of you, ladies and gentlemen, when I say that the Czech Presidency has our full support and that we intend to do our utmost to ensure it is a successful Presidency for the European Union at this difficult time.
The Czech Republic has assumed leadership of the EU after France, which I consider to be more than symbolic.
It is no accident that I have chosen a medieval monarch as an example of our links with France and with European values.
In a sense, the European Union follows on from this medieval universalism - if nothing else, in the fact that it prefers a common moral code and common legal basis over local power interests.
There is also talk of a second European Union, bureaucratic, technocratic and soulless, but I believe in that first Europe: the Europe of freedom, justice, ideas and rules.
The role of the country holding the presidency is neither to promote its interests nor to make decisions.
Its role is to moderate and inspire debate.
They will be the consensus of 27 countries, embodied in the conclusions of the European Council.
In the EU, they say the Czechs are always dissatisfied with something.
Like our first president, T.G.
Masaryk, I am convinced that the 'Czech question' is in fact a European question, and that it has always developed within a pan-European context, in accordance with common European values and in conjunction with developments in other countries.
As Masaryk wrote a hundred years ago in the second edition of his 'Czech Question': 'Our national literary and language revival took place at the same time as revivals and new developments in all European nations.
A face in keeping with the Union motto, 'In varietate concordia', an expression of unity and at the same time diversity.
The international role of the EU will be tested not only by the still-unresolved conflict in Georgia, but also by the new escalation of tensions in the Middle East.
The country holding the presidency cannot influence the EU's long-term agenda or the emergence of new problems.
Our primary effort has been to ensure that these priorities not only represent the Czech point of view, but also reflect the continuity of developments in the EU, and the positions and ideas of individual Member States and political tendencies.
Even though it is of course impossible for everyone to be 100% satisfied with these priorities, I believe that all of you can find something in our programme that you can identify with.
The third contribution that I want to mention here is our experience with the crisis in the banking sector which we went through at the end of the 1990s.
This is doubly true in times of crisis.
The removal of internal barriers must go hand in hand with protection against illegal activities that threaten the safety and interests of Europeans, especially in the areas of protection of intellectual property, and illegal immigration.
Only clearly set boundaries will enable us to play a more active role in breaking down external barriers, for example in international trade, so that we can make better use of the potential, and the comparative advantages, of European countries.
With slight exaggeration, it could be said that these 3 E's have been transformed, at the beginning of the year, into 2 G's: Gas and Gaza.
In physics, E means energy and G is the symbol of gravitational acceleration.
For anyone in need of exercise, 2 Gs is plenty of exertion.
I shall say straight away that I could speak for hours about individual priorities and tasks; but more important than any words are the results of the Czech presidency so far.
Within this time, we have managed to find a political solution to the complicated problem of Russian gas, and to negotiate an agreement between the two sides in the dispute.
The key lies in setting equal terms for all EU Member States in the making of direct payments - both in terms of the amounts paid, and in terms of the payment system (removing historical disparities, making allowance for the diversity of individual Member States' agriculture).
The Czech Republic is taking a very high profile in this area.
Here, we attach great importance to successful completion of the Doha Development Agenda (DDA).
The DDA represents an effort to achieve a transparent liberalisation of trade at multilateral level, which will bring long-term benefits.
The global crisis may weaken Europe in the short term; but the energy shortage that threatens us would immediately, and in the long term, destroy not only the European economy, but also our freedom and security.
In the area of energy security, we would like to focus on three aspects: firstly, completing the Second Strategic Energy Review, including an analysis of medium-term energy demand and supply in the EU and, based on this, the identification of appropriate infrastructure projects.
Secondly, completing the directive on the maintenance of minimum stocks of crude oil and petroleum products, where we support an increase in the mandatory minimum stocks from 90 to 120 days.
Thirdly, reforming the Trans-European Energy Networks (TENs-E); here, the energy security legislation package approved by the Commission in November 2008 also includes the Green Paper on European energy networks.
Now the EU must take decisions and measures to ensure that in future there is no repeat of this crisis with its impact on the Member States.
The building of infrastructure in the EU must be implemented rapidly, in order to provide effective connections between Member States as a prerequisite for building an effective gas market.
In the area of the internal market and infrastructure, we must make efforts to achieve effective coordination of transmission system operators, to complete the building of a unified internal market for electricity and gas, and to ensure that the gaps in the transmission and transport system are eliminated.
In this area, the presidency will try to achieve a globally acceptable agreement on the setting of reduction commitments after 2012.
Such a consensus should also reflect current trends in the world economy.
The beginning of the year reminded us that as part of the priority of 'the EU in the World', we must also allow for unforeseen urgent tasks.
The deepening of the eastern dimension of the European Neighbourhood Policy, through a strengthening of cooperation with the countries of the region (above all, with Ukraine), and likewise with the countries of the Transcaucasian and Caspian region, is of great importance, not only morally but also practically.
This cooperation will enable us to diversify our foreign trade and supplies of energy raw materials.
As far as Transatlantic relations are concerned, it is obvious that unless they are strengthened and developed, the EU cannot effectively perform its role as a strong global player, just as the United States is now unable to perform this role independently.
Prerequisites for this are an understanding of Russia and a common analysis, and we therefore support the cooperation of experts on Russia across the European Union.
In the case of Croatia, the presidency will do all it can to ensure that this country joins the EU as soon as possible.
As part of this project, the Czech presidency is also prepared to continue developing a southern dimension to the European Neighbourhood Policy and improving relations with partner countries.
The building of a space of freedom, security and law is a common interest of the EU that touches the lives of all its citizens.
In this context, the presidency will make efforts towards further progress in Schengen cooperation, in police and customs cooperation, and in cooperation between Member States in civil and criminal matters.
Also on our agenda is the start of discussions about the new form of the European Commission.
What the European Union is going through now, a search for its form and the purpose of its existence, is something we know very well from our own history.
In our role as the country holding the presidency, we therefore offer the Community our two hundred years of experience in seeking our own historical role, our own place in the family of European nations.
The Czech relationship to Europe was well described more than seventy years ago by the critic and philosopher František Václav Krejčí: 'We do not see the Czech lands as 'the heart of Europe' in a geographical sense so much as in a cultural and intellectual sense.
Europe will have to prove its solidarity in emergency situations such as the sudden turn-off of the gas supply that we are experiencing at present.
In close cooperation with the Czech Presidency-in-Office of the Council - and I should like to welcome Prime Minister Topolánek and all of his team, I wish them every success at the head of the Council, and, once again, I wish to express my full confidence in the Czech Republic's ability to fulfil this very important role - in close cooperation with the latter and with the European Union, the Commission will strive to demonstrate that the Union is equal to the task.
Together, we can show Europeans during these six months why the European Union is so vitally important today.
Let us show our fellow citizens why Europe needs the increase in democracy and effectiveness provided for by the Treaty of Lisbon and why it should benefit from it, and let us also show them why, now more than ever, we need a Treaty of Lisbon that has the backing of all our Member States.
In 2008, the Union demonstrated that it was capable of taking difficult decisions that commit our societies for many years.
In 2008, the Union also proved its capacity to adapt to change.
The Union also enters 2009 secure in the strength of its international reputation.
It was first in line to help resolve conflicts such as the one between Russia and Georgia; it will not diminish its efforts to help bring together parties in conflict such as in Gaza; and, in fact, it is thanks to the European Union that at least humanitarian corridors have been opened up to help the people of Palestine.
The European Union has also inspired the courses of action that the G20 has taken forward to tackle the economic crisis.
In the course of this year the Commission is going to continue to do everything to ensure that we do not lose the momentum that we gained at Washington during the G20.
We believe that it is important to continue to pull out all the stops to reform the global financial system, and we have an extraordinary opportunity with the G20 in London.
The Commission will continue to propose important initiatives this year, for example to better regulate the way in which the financial markets operate, to launch a new action programme in the field of justice, freedom and security, and to propose new measures for adapting to climate change.
Furthermore, we shall pay particular attention to developments in the economic and social situation and shall take all necessary measures.
You are still in the process of examining some very important proposals, ladies and gentlemen.
I have in mind, more specifically, the proposals linked to the economic and financial crisis, to the social package, to the internal energy market - which current events have shown to be so very crucial - and also to the telecoms package and to road transport.
It is here where Europe's citizens will feel most pressure this year.
And it is here where decisive effective action by the European Union can make a real difference.
The current situation is, in short, both unacceptable and incredible.
Incredible, because we remain in this situation the day after an important agreement was signed at senior level with assurances from Russian and Ukrainian leaders that they will implement the agreement and let the gas flow.
Without judging intentions, there is an objective fact: Russia and Ukraine are showing that they are incapable of delivering on their commitments to some European Union Member States.
The fact is that Gazprom and Naftogas are unable to fulfil their obligations towards European consumers.
I would like to convey a very clear message to Moscow and Kiev.
If the agreement sponsored by the European Union is not honoured as a matter of urgency, the Commission will advise European companies to take this matter to the courts and call on Member States to engage in concerted action to find alternative ways of energy supply and transit. (Applause) We will see very soon whether there is a technical hitch or whether there is no political intention to honour the agreement.
We have designed the right strategies to get us through this crisis.
We can cushion its impact on the most vulnerable in our societies, and we can take decisions now which will stand us in good stead when we come out of this crisis, and we hope that we will come out of this crisis.
The recovery plan proposed by the Commission and backed by the European Council is the right response.
The social consequences of the crisis must be addressed directly.
Finally, it uses the European dimension to best effect through appropriate coordination to ensure that action in one Member State has a positive knock-on in the others and sparks a positive interaction.
To put this programme into action we need the active commitment of the presidency, the support of individual Member States and of the Council, and the clear engagement of this Parliament.
It means, in particular, swift agreement on the legal proposals in the package, from accelerating the use of the Structural Funds to the revised European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, and agreement on the release of EUR 5 billion of unspent commitments to strategic projects, with a particular focus on energy and energy interconnections.
The Russian-Ukrainian crisis has made it clearer than ever that filling in the gaps in our energy infrastructure is to the strategic benefit of all Europe.
It means effective implementation of the plan to release a stimulus of around EUR 200 billion into our economy.
The motto of the Czech presidency, 'Europe without barriers', is indeed an important and inspiring message, but as Prime Minister Topolánek said, let me also emphasise that a Europe without barriers needs rules - European rules.
In the face of these challenges, the only stance that our countries can take is to join forces, show solidarity and take both coordinated and determined action.
I am pleased to note that the Czech Presidency, in close cooperation with the European Commission, has acted swiftly and as one in the energy crisis bringing Kiev and Moscow into conflict with one another.
By including energy among its three major priorities, the Czech Presidency fully grasped what will be one of Europe's major challenges in the years to come, namely our energy independence and the necessary diversification of our energy resources.
We cannot tolerate EU Member States being held hostage in this conflict, and this demonstrates, once again, the urgent need for agreement on a European energy policy.
We must therefore give serious thought to ways of reducing our dependence and must take action to implement energy mixes.
Yes, Europe is the world's biggest donor of humanitarian aid - we can be proud of that, and it must continue - but it is not humanitarian aid on its own that is going to resolve the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians.
Mr Topolánek, you have rightly made the Union's external relations one of your priorities.
The European Union must protect its social model, the social market economy, and must promote the implementation on the world financial markets of a market supervision system similar to that which prevails in our countries.
Europe must be united and determined in the management of the financial crisis and of the economic crisis also.
That also goes for the speech you held here this morning, which we all listened to and noted with great goodwill and also with a feeling of confidence for the next few months.
Charles IV built the Golden Road from Prague to Nuremberg, which, in his day, was a tremendous feat, and was intended to connect peoples and nations.
Therefore, this period in Prague Castle was truly European.
Your work programme outlines those goals.
Europe should play a leading role in resolving conflicts, supporting development and promoting human rights.
If you want to prevent weapons proliferation, why are you building a ballistic missile defence system on European soil? (Applause) And if you want peace in the Middle East, why allow Europe to be ridiculed by so many different peace missions?
As events unfold in Gaza, it becomes harder for many of us to remain detached.
The tag line for your Presidency is 'Europe without Borders'.
Stick to them, and we will stick by you. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (GA) Mr President, a better political and economic relationship must be promoted between the European Union and America.
On behalf of my group, the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, we also offer our support towards your programme to guarantee that there is a clear and stronger voice for the European Union, as well as the Member States within the European Union.
Many colleagues have spoken already with regard to the current series of crises, and, at the outset, I want to pay tribute to both your presidency and to President Barroso for the decisive action that was taken when the issue with regard to the cutting-off of the gas supply to the European Union was brought about, and not just because we apportioned blame but because we immediately intervened on a social level, an economic level and on a political level to bring both sides to sit down to talk each other where they had failed before.
That is why it is important under the presidency now to expand this idea of partnership with the East, that we look to the East and to the Balkans because they are the fault lines within the European Union at the present time, not only because of political instability but also because of our interdependence on energy and economic activity.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the very moment that we are having this debate, bombs are falling on the people of Gaza.
I think that our greatest priority as MEPs, and the greatest priority of the Council and the Commission, should be to stop the bombing of the people of Gaza.
I must say that our group, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, has rather a clear idea on this, as we will say this afternoon.
Mr President, you began your observations by speaking of medieval times, an age that was violent, remote, dark with a few lights, but certainly violent and dark.
Nor are we pleased with the fact that no mention is made of such an important sector as that of combating discrimination, and on this point I would like to know what priority you place on adopting the directive on discrimination.
To sum up, this is a programme that reveals a world with many dangers and few opportunities.
You spoke of your mediation work in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine over gas, but it can be seen very clearly from your programme that it will not be during your Presidency that clear action is taken against those countries, such as Slovakia and Bulgaria, that are taking the opportunity presented by the gas crisis to reopen dangerous, obsolete nuclear plants.
Mr President, one last word on the future of Europe: the Treaty of Lisbon is not perfect, but it is really strange that you have not yet ratified it.
Therefore, please, take this opportunity to explain to us why, and to tell us when you will do so. (Applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) The President-in-Office of the Council has talked about our complex historical experiences.
I take the view that the Czech Presidency is an opportunity for us to help overcome the existing division of Europe into West and East.
In his novel Schweik, Jaroslav Hašek once made a pun, a German-Hungarian pun, kelet oszt, nyugat veszti, which loosely translated means that the East gives and the West takes.
I believe that we have an opportunity to bring an end to this.
I would say that the opposite is true, that the Czech Presidency should help to ensure that we have a socially and ecologically driven economy, that is, an economy powered by social and environmental factors.
Stefan George, the great German writer, says that the future belongs to those who are capable of change.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (CS) Mr President-in-Office of the Council, no country has commenced its Presidency under such a barrage of negativity or been subjected to so many dire predictions as the Czech Republic.
It was because of such a deficit that, twenty years ago, we overthrew socialism in our country.
It will prove that smaller countries are equally capable of managing the EU.
While the largest EU countries have lived as predictable democracies and have learned to deal only with standard situations, we have spent half a century living under a highly non-standard totalitarian regime.
This has taught us to find creative solutions to non-standard situations, which is going to come in useful. (CS) Mr President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud of the dexterity and capacity for action demonstrated by the Czech Presidency over the issue of gas supplies to EU countries.
And I would be delighted if the President-in-Office of the Council, Mirek Topolánek, in the talks on the future of the EU, that is, on the Treaty of Lisbon, could show the same determination as we witnessed in the gas negotiations with Vladimir Putin and Yulia Tymoshenko.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have a unique chance to demonstrate that all states, regardless of size, are equal partners in the European Union.
You have been given the opportunity and the power to declare publicly that the Treaty of Lisbon is dead in the wake of the Irish referendum and that it has led us up a blind alley.
You are in a position to propose the creation of a new visionary document which will constitute a true common denominator of the interests of individual EU members and which will win the support of citizens in referendums.
Mr Topolánek, you represent here a country which, in the last century, succeeded in breaking free from the Austro-Hungarian Empire, which survived the treachery of Munich, and which withstood the horrors of Nazism.
You represent a country which spent 40 years under the thumb of the Soviet Union, which spiralled down inevitably into planned poverty under the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance, and which shook off a totalitarian regime without shedding blood.
I refuse to believe that as prime minister of a country with such historical experience, you would want decisions on social policy, energy, taxes, justice and security to be taken anywhere other than in the individual Member States.
I do not believe that you actually want the exclusive powers of the Union to overrule the powers of Member States.
I do not believe that you welcome the fact that, in more than fifty areas, the Treaty of Lisbon abolishes the right of national veto and lowers the voting weight of smaller countries, including the Czech Republic.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, have the courage to tell the other 26 Heads of State what you say in private at home.
In the Czech Republic, you often refer to the Treaty of Lisbon as a necessary evil.
Stop persuading yourself that the Treaty of Lisbon is a necessary evil.
Initiate work on a new document, refer to the Rome Treaties and the Messina Declaration for inspiration, and promote the common interest of the European Union.
That is, freedom, prosperity, competitiveness and security, not euro-health, euro-taxes, euro-parks and euro-beer.
Mr Topolánek, necessary evil is a coward's alibi.
You are no coward, or at least I hope you are not.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Thank you for all your questions and comments on my speech.
Václav Klaus is the icon of the Czech transformation in the 1990s, and it is, I might add, thanks to him that we are successful today and that we have emerged safely from those first ten years.
I am proud of the fact that we came safely through the Velvet Revolution, proud of the fact that we drove the Russian troops out of our country in 1991, that we joined NATO in 1999, joined the European Union in 2004, and that last year we eliminated the barriers between EU countries and can now travel from Lisbon to Vilnius without passports or any restrictions.
I am proud to have been part of that, and to be standing here today, and it seems incredible to me that the Czech Republic now holds the presidency of a community which has a population of nearly half a billion and comprises as many as 27 countries.
If the European Union loses the capability - leaving aside the question of rules and unification - for free public discussion, and seeks to unify this discussion too, then it will not be my European Union.
Free discussion should be a matter of pride for the European Union in future, and should never be stifled.
I do not wish to be the judge of one side or the other, because the fact is that the Israelis have a right to live safely without rocket attacks, and I have been in Sderot and Ashkelon and other parts of Israel.
On the questions of energy, energy security, climate change, and the European Union's role in the process: it should be obvious to everyone that if the European Union's leadership on the issue of climate change - whatever my own views on the subject - does not gain support from economies and major players such as the USA, the Russian Federation, Brazil, India and China, then this initiative by the European Union is isolated, a voice in the wilderness and, on a global scale, worthless.
We must discuss this, and must invest in innovation, and of course gradually adjust the energy mix in the directions we are talking about - in other words, in the direction of greater environmental protection, less dependence on fossil fuels and, of course, secure and relatively cheap supplies of energy so that Europe can remain competitive, able to compete on a global scale.
It is a multi-layered problem, and I certainly do not wish to be the judge of who at this moment is the short-term culprit, because for us, for the European Union and for European countries, both Russia and Ukraine are currently to blame.
If we now exchange the Treaty of Nice for the Treaty of Lisbon, and replace Sweden with the Czech Republic, those articles look exactly the same.
We have no inferiority complex about that. (CS) Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I will continue with the Czech theme that has been set in motion here.
It has also become apparent that the 3E, the three priorities of the economy, energy and external relations, have been identified quite correctly as Czech priorities, because the events with which the year began - the conflict in Gaza and the crisis over gas supplies to Europe - can be grouped under at least two of these priorities.
I wish all of us every success in this respect. (CS) Prime Minister Topolánek, President Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know anyone in this Parliament, any Member, who does not want the Czech Presidency to be a success.
The relationship between the government and the Czech President has also provoked a number of questions, as we have already heard.
I would like a clear answer as to whether the Czech Presidency, or the Czech government, agrees with the views of President Václav Klaus, who rejects the Treaty of Lisbon, denies global warming and argues that the current financial and economic crisis was caused by over-regulation and the existence of social and environmental policies.
There are also serious grounds for doubt concerning the failure to do your homework and honour the pledge made to Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy that the Czech government, as the country holding the Presidency, would ratify the Treaty of Lisbon by the end of last year.
The Treaty of Lisbon, as we have heard here, is a necessity.
These priorities, I think, are correct, but in order to be in a position to continue pursuing them in the future, for example in terms of energy security and a greater role for Europe in external relations, we need closer cooperation and, to that end, we need the Treaty of Lisbon.
You yourself mentioned the war between Israel and Hamas and the economic crisis, and of course there are also internal issues such as the Treaty of Lisbon.
Our lifestyle, our economy, our further development - all of this depends upon it.
For this reason I expect the Czech presidency to take fresh steps towards securing financial support for the Nabucco gas pipeline and a more vigorous energy policy in Central Asia.
Thank you, Mr Barroso, for your very clear words this morning.
Thirdly, we need to combine Europe's economic recovery with a major energy investment plan.
This slogan can be interpreted in different ways, depending on one's political and personal experience.
I would like to know your opinion on this topic, as well as the strategy the Presidency will apply to our neighbours along the borders of the European Union.
I am thinking mainly of Serbia and the sensitive issue of Kosovo, and I am also thinking particularly of Moldova, which has taken many positive steps towards closer relations with the European Community.
It is necessary to seek a balanced relationship with these countries too, especially where European interests are involved.
This includes one minority we are reluctant to discuss in this Parliament, namely the non-citizens in some states of the European Union.
The key to addressing these issues hinges, inter alia, on the introduction of a new policy, in other words in eliminating the policy of double standards.
Give the citizens of your own country a chance to decide in a referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon and the siting of the US radar installation.
Today more and more of us, the peoples of Europe, are Brussels dissidents. (NL) Madam President, with only one minute speaking time, all I can do is plead with the Czech Presidency to help us ensure the European institutions respect democracy.
In a democracy, it is the people who decide.
I hope that the new presidency will actually side even more with the citizens and freedom and not, as we have grown accustomed from most presidencies, with the arrogant European mandarins.
The large majority of Europeans are opposed to the accession of a non-European country to our Union.
Madam President, I welcome Prime Minister Topolánek to the European Parliament and I know from past discussions that Europe is in very good hands for the next six months.
The economic crisis remains high on your agenda.
You have been clear about the importance of Europe and the Member States not imposing new and heavy-handed regulation at European or national level.
I know we can rely on you, Prime Minister, to establish a good working relationship with President-elect Obama.
I know you share my view that the future of the transatlantic alliance is vital to our security and our prosperity.
The end of your presidency will be marked by the election of 532 new MEPs.
Make the EU more active, visible and credible in the Middle East.
Mr Topolánek, I would like to see another presidency by a new Member State succeed.
It is not easy in a pre-election situation, but Slovenia is an example that you can follow.
The second prerequisite is to unite behind you the main political parties in this Parliament.
For six months, you must forget your own political membership and hold a broad dialogue.
The Commission has recently released a very disappointing report on the implementation of this directive.
Given the directive's improper transposition by Member States, I would hope that you will give this issue much more weight than is indicated by your programme in the area of freedom and security.
I hope that you will honour your commitment to reach a first reading agreement with my Roaming II report.
Thank you, and I wish you the best of luck during your presidency. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I offer a warm welcome to the Czech Presidency and I hope that it will succeed in moving Europe on from the useless persiflage of Brussels to action on combating the disgraceful human trafficking of illegal migrants taking place in the Mediterranean.
The Czech Presidency must consider the urgent need for specific measures mandating the ministers of home affairs to conclude readmission agreements with the non-EU countries from which these illegal immigrants come.
As a Prague citizen elected to the European Parliament as a German member of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I am particularly pleased that the Czech Republic is to hold the Council Presidency for the next six months.
On the contrary, a visible threat to the European Union is the strategy being applied by Israel, the strategy of war, which the European Union has not roundly condemned and for which it has not imposed sanctions, as it has done in other cases.
It is hardly surprising, therefore, that the citizens are losing patience with the policies of the European Union.
When my people voted in a referendum to reject the Treaty of Lisbon, the Czech representation alone said it respected the Irish vote.
Such a programme requires respect between Member States.
It also requires respect for the peoples of those Member States to have any hope of success.
The fact that the Czech Republic is representing the Presidency in the European Parliament today is a reflection of the incredible historic changes to which we have been witness and for which we can be grateful.
The Treaty of Lisbon is an excellent instrument for correcting any wrong turns taken by Europe.
You have taken a decision - and I am glad that you are talking about a Europe of rules - to subordinate ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon to ratification of the missile defence shield.
Many of us believe that this is not the way forward, but you have taken the decision to subordinate your own country to something that must be considered jointly.
Secondly, President-in-Office of the Council, you have not mentioned the euro.
It is therefore important not to lose focus.
My question to Prime Minister Topolánek is therefore the following: will the Czech Republic ensure that the emergency economic crisis programmes also work to solve the climate crisis?
After all, we have, here, the opportunity to help our citizens to both a better environment and new jobs and to help our small businesses.
In any case, Europe's freezing citizens understand what needs to be done.
We cannot have a situation like we had in the Middle East crisis, with three or four European delegations running around each other.
You have inaugurated your presidency in a hot political temperature and the freezing wind of the energy crisis.
Two of the three main priorities of the Czech presidency - energy and the Eastern Partnership - need gas.
You have to work on unblocking gas deliveries to 18 Member States whose citizens and industries are suffering.
I also welcome your priority on the Eastern Partnership, which would give us an appropriate framework for better cooperation with our eastern partners, who are so close to our borders.
There is a good deal more work to do on this in your country, too.
At the end of the French Council Presidency, President Sarkozy said that the previous six months had changed him.
Thirdly, do you not see a contradiction in coming here and praising the legitimacy of the Parliament but declining to support the Treaty which so greatly increases its powers?
Fourthly, can the Czech presidency really have authority unless and until the Czech Republic ratifies the Treaty? (PL) Madam President, President-in-Office, it is paradoxical that this multiple crisis that has afflicted the world, including Europe, can also be a great ally, as those who have got used to telling everyone how to run their business bear the brunt of the responsibility for this crisis.
That is what Europe's citizens are expecting, and you will not succeed by listening to these charlatans. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as always in Europe we are living through important historic events, and the six months of the Czech Presidency is certain to number among these.
The serious world economic crisis will continue to produce effects, and there is no doubt that these will be significant over the course of this year.
Europe is facing a serious problem in terms of energy supply: this is a crucial fact, and it seems a complex problem to resolve.
The situation in the Gaza Strip can no longer be tolerated.
The Cyprus issue should be tackled swiftly, in order to resolve once and for all relations between Greece and Turkey, and between Europe and Turkey, which, moreover, is still permanently awaiting accession.
Therefore, I attach particular importance to the fact that great store has been set by what has been called a strategic energy security concept.
This example, in particular, makes it clear that there are many areas in which nation-states alone are no longer able to look after the interests of their citizens, and only a common European approach will do.
For this reason, we should seek an opportunity to make clear that we can improve the way we overcome our shared challenges in all the major areas only with the help of the Treaty of Lisbon.
That is why you cannot ignore the fact that 25 Member States have already ratified the Treaty of Lisbon and that Ireland has already planned a second referendum.
The Irish have realised that, in this particularly difficult international environment, the fact that they belong to the European Union and to the euro area has protected them from greater trouble.
As my group chairman, Martin Schulz, has stated, at a moment when Europe is confronting unprecedented challenges, it is necessary for Europe to speak with a single voice.
Europe has been a factor for peace not because it offered the prospect of partnership to its neighbours, but because it offered the prospect of membership, of becoming a part of the EU.
The result of that is that surrounding the European Union, where in past decades there was hope for countries such as yours, today, instead, there are wars and tensions in the Middle East, the Balkans, the Caucasus, the Urals and the Maghreb.
May I also express the hope that you will pave the way well for the Swedish presidency: as regards climate issues and competitiveness, where it is so important for you to demonstrate that we will tackle the economic problems with openness, without protectionism and with the dynamics of an open economy; and regarding energy issues, where you will play a crucial role, since you are clearly very well-placed.
I think it is fair to say that solidarity and security as regards energy means that we need to reform and deepen the European internal energy market.
If that can be achieved during your presidency, it will be a strategic step forward that I hope we can all congratulate you on in six months' time. (DE) Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, I and some fellow Members present here today belonged to the group of MEPs from the Joint Parliamentary Committee who particularly promoted the cause of Czech membership in the period up to 2004.
Therefore, being able to welcome a Czech Presidency for the first time makes today a special day for non-Czech MEPs, too.
Thus, we are certainly among those who offer the Czech Presidency particular support and do not intend to attach too much importance to teething problems - the rather one-sided initial position on the Gaza conflict and the Czech President's view that social and environmental standards are too high have already been mentioned.
The excellent philosopher and writer Jiří Gruša has written a 'User manual for the Czech Republic and Prague', which I can only recommend to all my fellow Members as an enjoyable and extremely humorous read.
The Czech Council Presidency has got off to a bumpy start - its art installation has been provocative and given rise to indignation - but its serious efforts to find its feet and assume responsibility for the whole Union have been perceptible even before today.
It seems to be well prepared.
You should make clear to citizens that you already feel that, in the matters of the gas dispute, Gaza, Slovakia's actions with regard to Bohunice and the financial crisis, the Treaty of Lisbon would strengthen your role and enable you to carry it out in better harmony with the other European institutions.
The European Union is a community of values and a common system of law.
We are united despite all our differences by our community of values, our common system of law, our political objectives.
If it is doing all it can, why can it not ratify the Treaty of Lisbon?
After all, the Czech presidency agreed to it and, therefore, should fulfil its obligations.
However, it would be a big mistake to turn away before addressing the long-term causes of this problem.
The aim of the EU must therefore be to keep Ukraine on the Union's radar screen.
The Czech Presidency's priorities include energy security and reinforcement of the Eastern Partnership.
The Presidency should also exert effective pressure on Kiev to dismantle opaque economic structures which undermine efforts to reform and develop a legal state.
Only strong external pressure on Ukraine and active cooperation can help it to abandon short-term and often personal interests in favour of genuine independence from Russia, and a legal state that is free of ubiquitous corruption.
Unless a clean-up is achieved in Ukraine, we cannot expect the EU to respond effectively to Russia's increasingly assertive policy towards Central and Eastern Europe.
The right time to establish close cooperation between the EU and Ukraine will be immediately after the gas crisis has been defused.
As President-in-Office, your task is to mediate for, and lead, Europe based on our common values of solidarity - internally and externally - a social market economy, multilateralism and equality between men and women - and that includes the right of both men and women to share the task of parenting.
President-in-Office, you must park your conservative and neo-liberal views for six months, otherwise you are going to be in conflict constantly with this Parliament for those six months.
Ireland will probably have a referendum on a clarified Treaty of Lisbon in the autumn of this year.
Your comments here today have made that task much harder.
I perfectly understand your words on national identity, an identity which we, the countries between the east and the west of Europe, have built up successfully.
This package deals firstly with the common energy market, a common European agency for cooperation between national regulators, cross-border connections and joint investments, and therefore with integration - in other words, with energy solidarity and secure energy supplies.
In the context of the EU's eastern partnership and eastern dimension, the third package clearly speaks for itself.
The third package can be benefit each of the three main priorities of your presidency - energy, the economy, and Europe's eastern dimension.
I call upon you to keep this priority and to fully ... (The President cut off the speaker) (SV) Madam President, I, too, would like to welcome the Czech Presidency.
The family policy that I read about in your programme is an old-fashioned family policy.
In Bulgaria alone more than 160 000 households have been left without heating.
Unfortunately, the Bulgarian Government was unable to help its citizens during this crisis.
When we talk about European energy solidarity, we mean joint energy projects in the European Union and avoiding the current practice of bilateral agreements.
I would also like to believe that before long, it will be possible in Europe to build pan-European nuclear power facilities as joint projects involving Member States.
The need for concrete action aimed at establishing a common European energy policy is now greater than ever.
I wish the Czech presidency every success. (HU) Madam President, Prime Minister, the Czech presidency has chosen the tagline ''Europe Without Borders'' as its motto, setting as its foremost priorities the issues of energy policy and economic stability.
I believe the role of education is especially important ... (The President cut off speaker.) (CS) Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the beginning of the Czech Presidency has been marked by the conflict in Gaza and the energy crisis.
Today, for example, European parents have great difficulty in finding children's shoes that pose no health risks, yet so far the Council and the Commission have paid little attention to this issue.
I assure you that Europe is very open to world trade, but no President of the Council has yet been able to ensure fair reciprocity and to open up China to European producers.
Considering that you are the leader of a political party some of whose current ministers voted in 2003 against our accession to the Union, you are doing extremely well on the European scene.
I hope that you too will start to view the Treaty in a positive light, even if it means deleting President Klaus from your mobile phone.
I wish us all a successful Czech Presidency, notwithstanding the pluralism of our views. (EL) Madam President, Prime Minister, in addition to the question of foreign policy, action to deal with the economic crisis and the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, one of the basic priorities of the European Union must be young people.
I believe that your programme should be more integrated and more pro-active on the question of young people.
They have a problem with the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon.
It is the new generation that can understand what is meant by ... (The President cut off the speaker.) Mr President, I should like to say to the President-in-Office that his country is symbolised for me by two men: Franz Kafka and Jan Palach.
For that reason I think, Mr President-in-Office, you will have a particular insight into the struggle in Gaza and you will understand the pain and the frustration of the people of Gaza and the people of Israel.
You mentioned the free movement of knowledge.
It is not on your list at the moment, but I hope you will ensure that it is on your agenda as an item to be furthered because, above all, our task - your task - is to benefit those people in our community who are vulnerable and need our support.
I know you will do your best in that, and I wish you well in all your endeavours. (Applause) (PL) I would like to start by recalling the Polish-Czech underground opposition meeting organised 21 years ago by Solidarity in the Giant Mountains on the Polish-Czech border.
The Czech Republic is the first country of Central and Eastern Europe to take the EU presidency.
And finally I would like to wish President Vaclav Havel a rapid recovery from his recent operation. (SL) The Czech Presidency has expressed its readiness to intervene to break the deadlock in the negotiations regarding Croatia's accession to the European Union.
Mr President, allow me to remind you in this regard that each candidate country is required to submit credible documents.
If the documents are not credible, that fact should be drawn to the attention of the country concerned.
In the specific case of Croatia, Croatia has marked on its maps a border which is in dispute.
This is a bilateral dispute between two countries who are otherwise good neighbours on excellent terms, and yet it is a dispute that will have to be resolved elsewhere.
Slovenia is in fact making the point that Member States are obliged to draw this candidate country's attention to the fact that it is required to submit documents which conform to the European Union's standards.
The solution might be for Croatia to submit a government or parliament decision which clearly states that these borders are orientational, provisional or any other term specifying clearly that the borders are temporary and that they have not yet been determined.
In conclusion, allow me to wish you every success in heading the Council of the European Union. (CS) Criticism has been heaped on the President-in-Office of the Council; I intentionally refrain from joining in.
The Czech presidency has demonstrated that it is capable of responding to and acting in critical situations, such as the war in Gaza and the disruption of gas supplies from Russia to the EU.
Prime Minister, Slovakia still has no gas and therefore still needs your active help.
It is important to identify areas where the EU is dependent on Russia, as well as areas where Russia is dependent on the EU.
Prime Minister, Slovakia is in an extraordinary situation and it sees you as an ally in the matter of a strategic decision on Jaslovské Bohunice.
Personally, I think that many shortcomings still exist in the implementation of the free movement of persons and I therefore welcome the motto of the Czech presidency - Europe without barriers.
I wish the Czech presidency success in implementing its 3E programme and in bringing the EU closer to achieving the Lisbon goals. - (SK) Prime Minister, we are former fellow citizens and as such I am delighted to welcome you to the European Parliament and to wish you good luck with implementing the objectives you have presented to us.
When I saw you at the celebrations for the adoption of the euro in Slovakia, I was delighted to discover that the new President-in-Office of the Council was a supporter of closer integration between the countries of the Union.
Nevertheless, like most Members of this Parliament, I would be even more delighted if you contribute to the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon in the Czech Republic.
Turnout in the elections will influence EU policy for the next five years and material support from the Council can play a major role here.
When Slovakia is eliminated from the ice-hockey world championship and the Czech Republic qualifies for the next round ... (The President cut off the speaker.) Madam President, I would like to extend the warmest Estonian support for the Czech presidency.
Last September the European Parliament suggested marking 23 August as a day of joint commemoration of the victims of Communism and Nazism.
We also expect you to lead us to a European moral and political assessment of the crimes committed under totalitarian Communism. (The President cut off the speaker.) (RO) 'Economy, Energy and European Union in the World' is the motto of the EU's Czech Presidency.
The European Union's economic recovery plan, increasing energy efficiency and energy supply security are currently the priorities of Europe's citizens.
Together we can reach an agreement at first reading on the directive on energy efficiency in buildings.
On behalf of the delegation ... (The President cut off the speaker.) (BG) Thank you, Madam President.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Thank you for giving me the floor.
The Treaty of Lisbon cannot be a mantra.
I just want to say that we are ready for this and want to address the individual elements of these problems.
The large-scale discussion on Nabucco.
As for the debate on Ukraine, my countryman Josef Zieleniec said it quite clearly - this is a political and geopolitical problem, and in my opinion if we do not give Ukraine a chance to resolve its internal problems, if we do not place restrictions on the conduct of the various players, whether they be individuals or firms in the gas market, then we could lose the pro-European orientation of Ukraine, which is, of course, a geopolitical problem.
If I had to respond to the reference as to whether Europe should be more liberal or more socialist, I would attempt one more joke and say that I propose a compromise of a liberal-conservative Europe, but that really is my last joke.
There was Belgium at the time the Maastricht Treaty entered into force, where constitutional changes took place without affecting the Presidency, there was the time of the French Presidency, when the European Union was enlarged to include Sweden, Finland and Austria while France was suffering an internal political crisis, there was the time of the Amsterdam Treaty in 1999, during the German Presidency, when Gerhard Schröder was facing major problems and Lafontaine quit his party, there was the time the euro was introduced during the Spanish Presidency headed by José María Aznar, there was the time of the Irish Presidency, and I could mention many more.
Furthermore, I believe that the next steps must be far more effective and tougher on the part of both the European Commission and the Czech Presidency.
We talked a lot about the Balkans and related problems, and many questions were raised in this respect.
In this sense, my contacts with the two prime ministers and the two presidents, together with my personal input into this problem, will perhaps help to resolve the Slovenian-Croatian border problems.
I would like to end by saying that we greatly appreciate the opportunity to belong to a community of states built on values and on foundations that we, after November 1989, have been able to adopt once more as our own values and our own goals.
We also appreciate the fact that we can tackle many problems.
I can unequivocally declare here that Tomas Garrigue Masaryk has said that 'democracy is discussion'.
Once again I reiterate my wish to work loyally, constructively and in the best spirit, with our Czech friends.
I think it is very important that during these months we all show how relevant all our institutions are to the wellbeing, prosperity and solidarity of our citizens.
It is very important to communicate, and that cannot be done only by the European institutions or only by Member States.
We have to do it together in a true spirit of partnership, so a lot of what will happen during these months will be very important for the future of Europe, and also for the respect accorded to our institutions all over Europe.
Funds are needed for energy efficiency and for energy interconnections, and by the coordination of national stimulus programmes we will align national efforts in this direction as well, in line with European Council conclusions.
Let me also say that getting through this economic crisis and putting Europe back on the path towards sustainable growth will also require respect for Community rules on equal opportunities.
When you think about it, what a great achievement it is, 20 years after the fall of the Iron Curtain, to have the Czech Republic at the head of the European Council, and to have Prime Minister Topolánek and Vice-Prime Minister Vondra cooperating in this responsibility.
Prime Minister Socrates of Portugal and I were in Zittau, on the border between the Czech Republic, Poland and Germany, and I saw the emotion Prime Minister Topolánek was feeling at that moment.
That is why I really believe that it is important to defend our values to make a success of this presidency.
Some of you said it is important that the Czech Republic be successful, because it is a small country.
I am sorry but the Czech Republic is not a small country, even in European terms.
In fact, it is sometimes a sign of an inferiority complex to consider some of our Member States as small countries.
In fact, when we look at the rest of the world - when we see the dimension of America's strength in terms of defence and in technology; when we see the huge geographical dimension of Russia; when we see the huge demographic dimension of China and India - can we say that there are any big countries in Europe?
For the European Commission all the Member States have exactly the same dignity, but if we want to be big in the world we need the European Union to be strong.
That is why we need the Treaty of Lisbon.
The statement on Gaza made by the President-in-Office of the Council has also demonstrated a lack of institutional feeling: positions ought to be agreed with the other 26 Member States.
The Czech Presidency put forward three priorities: economy, energy and foreign relations.
Thus, the presentation of the programme of the Czech Presidency followed lines that were already known, but it had some peculiarities, specifically with regard to the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The Czech Prime Minister affirmed the need to respect the sovereignty of the Irish citizens.
In relation to the gas crisis between Russia and Ukraine, he considered both countries were to blame, underlining economic, strategic and political reasons for their actions, and he supported a greater intervention of the European Union, but he was not very forthcoming with specific proposals.
in writing. - (PL) The Czech presidency has come at a difficult time for the entire EU.
And President Vaclav Klaus' views on climate change, EU reform and the euro, which are bizarre, if not hostile, have a great deal to answer for in this respect.
The Czech ''three E'' priorities - economy, energy and external relations - are Europe's needs in a nutshell.
in writing. - The Economic Recovery Plan - agreed in December - is a major step in the right direction to cope with the current economic slowdown.
We need indeed to further our efforts to avoid the negative consequences of the crisis not only on the economy but on our citizens, mainly the most vulnerable ones.
The EU must in conjunction with the UN do everything possible to find a solution to this bloody conflict.
The gas crisis has hit many European states.
The dispute between two companies, one Russian and the other Ukrainian, has snowballed into a dispute between the two countries.
I cordially wish our Czech friends success in bringing the aims of the EU to fruition.
The Czech Presidency finds itself in a difficult situation.
It is hard to take the reins of power for the first time after a Presidency which, well established as one of the engines of Europe, has already steered the ship of the Union several times.
Their situation is difficult since the financial crisis is only now making its effects felt all over Europe.
Nonetheless, the programme of the Czech Presidency seems to be one that tries to keep the European Union well balanced.
The Czech Republic is the first country in the Eastern-Central European region incorporating all of the common characteristics of new EU Member States.
Consequently, the programme of the Czech Presidency attempts a proportional representation of the requirements of new Member States.
Indeed, these are social and economic problems at a European level that transcend borders.
I want to congratulate the Czech Republic on taking over the Presidency of the European Union.
The challenges facing this presidency just as it has started, such as the war in Gaza, the disruption to the supply of Russian gas, not to mention the global economic crisis, have confirmed the fact that the priorities identified by the Czech Republic are totally relevant.
It is looking to prepare a 'plan B' for the selection of a new Commission under the rules of the Treaty of Nice.
On the crisis in Gaza, the response of the Czech presidency is very far from what is required.
The EU must take concerted action to uphold the rights of beleaguered Palestinians and to try and end the bloodshed.
We should bear in mind the following: the significant energy savings and reduction in heating costs paid by citizens which could be achieved by renovating the heating systems in these buildings, as well as the limited opportunities to use structural and cohesions funds to invest in this area.
I think therefore that the Czech Presidency of the Council should include this issue among its priorities.
Secondly, with regard to the European arrest warrant, the Czech Republic has made a statement, based on Article 32 of the Framework Decision, to the effect that it applies the surrender procedure 'only for acts committed after 1 November 2004'.
Cases such as this undermine citizens' belief in the effectiveness of European policies in combating crime.
The Czech Republic holding the Presidency of the Council provides a good opportunity to re-examine these statements.
in writing. - (EL) The statements by the Czech Prime Minister and President of the European Commission and the debate in general in the European Parliament on the programme of the Czech Presidency of the EU are the sequel to the single anti-grassroots policy of the EU under previous presidencies.
I was saying on Monday that for us, but especially for the millions of citizens who have sent us here, these 20 years have marked a period of waiting, to some extent, and acceptance, to another extent.
Perhaps it was normal for us not to be able to escape more quickly from the burden of the 50 years which separated us from the rest of Europe.
The histories of our two countries, Romania and the Czech Republic, have two strong features in common: 1968 and then the Prague Spring, which represented for us Romanians, subjected to the most cruel Communist dictatorship, a ray of light which guided us along the path to freedom.
There are millions of citizens in this region who need to rekindle this hope by symbolically going through again now, in the forthcoming months, the events of the Prague Spring.
The Czech presidency follows on from a very dynamic and ambitious French presidency.
However, in my view the Czech authorities are well prepared for the job, and the Czech presidency will be an example of how even a small country that has only recently joined the Community is capable of providing it proper leadership.
The Czech Republic is taking the helm at the EU at a time when Europe is facing the challenges of the global financial crisis, the disrupted Russian gas supplies and the Gaza conflict.
I believe that the Czech presidency's ambitious programme will be achieved through close cooperation between the European Parliament and the European Commission.
The EU's internal natural gas market can only function normally by rapidly developing storage facilities for natural gas, including liquefied gas, and by speeding up the implementation of the Nabucco project.
in writing. - (FR) I should like to send my best wishes to the Czech Government, which is presiding over the Union in delicate conditions, due to the complexity of its national political situation and to a particularly worrying international context.
The Czech Presidency must be determined and dynamic, just as the presidency embodied by Nicolas Sarkozy was over the last six months, in order to work actively in favour of an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and to maintain a strong political momentum, on the basis of the preparatory work programme drafted jointly with France and Sweden, which will succeed it at the head of the Council.
In the face of the economic crisis, the coordinated recovery plan adopted by the 27 should be applied without delay, to protect industry, competitiveness and European jobs.
I welcome the Czech Prime Minister's commitment to have the Treaty of Lisbon ratified by his country by the end of this presidency.
