The concept of multilateral diplomacy and, more importantly, the relevance, future and modus operandi of the UN are being tested.
At the same time, new challenges are testing us, such as weapons of mass destruction and international terrorism.
Our approach, how we plan to step up our fight against these new threats, is also being tested.
I should simply like to point out that, at the summit Council on 17 February, we achieved a common stand and made an important joint declaration, in which we stress that the Union's objective is the full disarmament of Iraq and full compliance with Security Council Resolution 1441.
The unity and firmness of the international community, as expressed in the unanimous adoption of Resolution 1441, and the military build-up in the Gulf have been essential in obtaining the return of the inspectors.
We have listened carefully to Hans Blix and I can assure you that the Greek Presidency is making an effort to attend all UN procedures and meet all sides in the Iraqi debate.
However, the international community is still waiting for Iraq to comply fully with its disarmament obligations, as set out in the relevant Security Council resolutions, especially Resolution 1441.
First of all, our relations with the Arab world.
A number of my colleagues in the Council, such as the Austrian Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Italian Minister for Foreign Affairs, to mention just two, have also visited the region on the presidency's behalf.
On the contrary, it is a crisis in which we are working with the Arab and Muslim world and this is well appreciated by the Arab world.
Our third objective was to galvanise the Arab world into action, which I think we have succeeded in doing.
An Arab League delegation is due to visit the region with a clear message for Saddam Hussein within the next few days.
A second important area concerns relations between the United States and the European Union.
I am sure that we all want to maintain a working relationship based on long-standing, joint efforts to achieve security and, of course, on the common values expressed by Europe and the United States; the principles of freedom, democracy and peace.
What we want to highlight, therefore, is the need for a substantive dialogue on the future of security at international level and how we intend to combat these problems.
Naturally we are in constant contact with the United States as regards our position on the Iraqi question.
As far as the countries in the region are concerned, we are working closely with Turkey, which has taken the initiative of starting a debate on the problems which the Iraqi crisis may throw up, and is working with neighbouring countries to avert the war and get Saddam Hussein to comply.
This close collaboration is ongoing.
Turkey is a candidate country and we are naturally worried about the possible repercussions of developments in the region, such as the Kurdish question, the question of refugees and economic and political repercussions in general.
The European Union and the Fifteen - or even the Twenty-Eight - have stressed the importance of the role of the UN and I think this will prove to be a key factor in any further decisions we take as an international community.
Europe is experienced in integrating countries that have lived through dictatorships and autocratic regimes, it has shown that it knows how to integrate countries into an area of real democracy and freedom and to contribute to peace on the continent of Europe as a whole.
I should just like to say that I wish I had more time for debate and could spend more time here in the House.
I trust you will understand that, unfortunately, a large part of my life is spent flying from one continent to another, from one region to another, especially on account of Iraq, representing the European Union at these difficult times.
The Minister said that he had spent a good deal of time in the last few weeks at about 30 000 feet.
I can honestly say that I have spent a lot of my time in the last three and a half years at that altitude.
Because of the range of my responsibilities I have probably spent - and enjoyed spending - more time in this Chamber than any other Commissioner.
I hope today that the House will allow me to speak at slightly greater length, because I would like to talk about one or two things about which I feel very strongly.
That will become more obvious as the Union takes in new members.' The sorry figure cut by the European Union in recent weeks should not blind us to the real and remarkable achievements of the common foreign and security policy over the last decade, in the Balkans, Afghanistan and many other parts of the world.
Of course, it is possible, as some have suggested, for a small group of Member States to act as a driving force to give Europe a coherent, high-profile foreign policy.
For such decisions - and there have been many - send a dangerous signal about the value that the United States places on international commitments.
For I find it hard to conceive how the terrorist threat can be confronted effectively except through international cooperation and disciplines. (Applause) Impressive work has already been done within the European Union and through the UN Counter-Terrorism Committee.
We should continue to help countries which find it hard to meet their counter-terrorism obligations under UN Security Council Resolution 1373.
If, tragically, the position of the United Nations remains ambiguous - for example, if authority for an attack rested solely on Resolution 1441, but without explicit Security Council confirmation that Iraq's failure fully to comply constituted a casus belli - then it is still likely to be desirable that the UN should provide the framework as soon as possible for humanitarian assistance that may be necessary thereafter, that it should oversee the emergence of the new Iraqi polity, driven by the people of Iraq themselves and that it should help to coordinate the international reconstruction effort that will certainly be required.
The European Union is a massive donor in the Balkans and in Afghanistan, and we are already the largest humanitarian donor in Iraq.
EUR 15 million has already been set aside, but we may well need to go much further - drawing, if necessary, on the budget's emergency reserve.
But it will be that much more difficult for the European Union to cooperate fully and on a large scale - also in the longer-term reconstruction process - if events unfold without proper UN cover and if the Member States remain divided.
I am gravely concerned - and I know that many in this House share my concerns - about the potential collateral damage of recent events and of a war, if it comes to that.
I am thinking not just of the death and destruction that might be wrought by war itself, or of the destabilising consequences for Iraq's immediate neighbours, but of potential damage, for example to the authority of the United Nations, to NATO and to transatlantic relations, which are going through - to put it mildly - a very difficult passage.
In all these contexts we must look beyond the immediate arguments and remind ourselves of our long-term interests to cooperate and to strengthen the flawed but necessary apparatus of international governance.
The first is the common foreign and security policy itself, which has suffered a severe setback because Member States on both sides of the debate have chosen to take firm national policy positions as if they spoke for the European Union as a whole.
As we return to the work we shall find, perhaps, a little more humility even among the large Member States, which can surely see how much they have damaged their common enterprise and how much they have reduced their common influence as a result of public squabbling. (Applause) A second European project that risks being hurt by recent events if we do not work actively to sustain it is the cause of enlargement.
We should not call into question the European vocation of countries simply because of their views on the Iraq crisis. (Applause) Let us assure the acceding countries that we continue to look forward eagerly to their imminent membership.
They are not declaring themselves for Europe and against the United States - emphatically not.
Let us, in short, put all or most anxieties to one side.
We have been told that the road map will see the light of day before we all run out of road.
That may or may not be true - some of us are at the very least agnostic on that point.
But what I am absolutely sure about is that to invade Iraq, while failing to bring peace to the Middle East, would create exactly the sort of conditions in which terrorism would be likely to thrive. (Applause from the centre and the left) And the truth is - and we should face this fact - that none of us would be immune from the consequences of that. (Applause) Mr President, we rejoice at the presence among us today of the President-in-Office of the Council, and hope that we will be able to rejoice in welcoming him here on many more occasions during the Greek Presidency.
We would not be having this debate, and the Security Council would not be giving its attention to the same issue that we are discussing, were it not for Saddam Hussein's criminal regime in Baghdad.
I am very much in agreement with the President-in-Office of the Council when he says that our goal must be Iraq's complete disarmament.
My dear friends, before we fix our gaze on America - about which I will be saying something in a moment - and before we criticise the Americans, the first point we have to make is that Saddam Hussein must disarm completely.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us now take a look at America.
Let us remind ourselves of those hours on 11 September 2001, those few hours in which it seemed as if the nerve centre of the USA - not only the Pentagon, but also the White House and the Capitol - might be hit, in which event the United States would have been incapacitated.
That is true of our group. (Applause) It is because of this as much as because we acknowledge America's great historic achievements - in the face of the twentieth century's National Socialism and Communism - that I ask that, when talking about America today, we be constantly aware that America is a democracy, and that the Americans have always resolved difficult situations by their own democratic means.
Let us also remind ourselves that, although Saddam Hussein is now starting to disarm, to start ridding himself of weapons he has always maintained he did not even possess, such as the El-Samud 2 rockets, perhaps the nerve gas and the anthrax pathogens, he is willing to progressively dispose of these weapons only because there are 260 000 American soldiers in the region.
Bush if the presence of these troops were to succeed - by peaceful means - in bringing about Iraq's total disarmament. (Applause) This is something we have to make utterly clear.
Whilst there will of course be differences of opinion on an issue as important as this one, I speak for the whole of my group when I say that we are united in the belief that our moral strength lies in the respect we accord to the law.
Where Iraq is the issue, it is not a good sign when one government after the other goes its own way without consulting with the others beforehand. (Applause) Right now, I do not want to criticise individual governments, but Europe's underlying bane is that everyone thinks they have to go their own way in isolation from everyone else.
Let me just make two additional observations.
We must endeavour by all peaceful means to prevent this confrontation with Iraq's criminal regime from becoming a confrontation with the Arab world.
We also said 'yes' three times: 'yes' to the UN and multilateralism, 'yes' to disarmament and 'yes' to democracy.
Their report confirmed that progress has been made, including, where ballistic weapons are concerned, the gradual destruction of Al-Samoud missiles and others.
We also say that we must pursue a clear policy of inspection backed up by pressure, as stated in Security Council Resolution 1441.
We must continue working on this basis, because war can be avoided and a peaceful solution is still possible.
Jimmy Carter, winner of the Nobel Peace prize, has written that, where Iraq is concerned, alternatives to war clearly exist and that a war would be unwarranted.
The authoritative voice of the former US President joins the multitude of voices that, in a way that is unprecedented in history, continue to call throughout the world for a massive unilateral attack on Iraq to be totally rejected.
Our group feels that the approach we should adopt is to continue applying Resolution 1441, within the framework of the law and of international law.
In our view, a preventive war neither guarantees world security nor complies with international law.
Six months later, there was war in Baghdad.
We must be guided by solidarity and by our commitments to one another, as laid down in the Treaties.
These are obligations that are binding on all our States and on all our citizens.
We must state, and this is one of the European Union's major responsibilities, that in the face of preventive and unilateral action, international law must be made to prevail. (Applause) Mr President, an eminent and noble friend of mine recounts how he became convinced of the need for regime change in Iraq when during the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait Iraqi soldiers put Kuwaiti prisoners of war into manholes, closed the covers, poured petrol through the air vents and set them alight.
For Liberals in this House good relations between Europe and the United States of America are of huge importance.
Our commitment to shared values, our commitment to economic and cultural ties reflected in our military alliance are things that we hold dear.
We share America's pain about the attacks of 11 September, and not just because European citizens were among those so brutally murdered.
The report presented by Hans Blix to the UN Security Council last Friday does not make a case for immediate military action.
On the contrary, he reported substantial disarmament and, while he recognised that cooperation was by no means immediate, he welcomed it as active, even proactive.
We must not underestimate the casualties of war, and not only the human casualties, though they would be many and costly, but the diplomatic casualties of which the collapse of the reconciliation talks in Cyprus is perhaps the first.
As the crisis unfolds we are also approaching a critical moment for the future credibility of the United Nations and a world order based on the rule of law.
The remarkable unity displayed by the international community last November in agreeing unanimously to Resolution 1441 is in danger of falling apart.
The dignity and integrity of the United Nations is at stake.
Having gone down the UN route to achieve Iraqi disarmament, a decision which my group warmly welcomed at the time, the United States must stick with the multilateral route.
For the US to disregard a UN decision against early military action would deal a potentially fatal blow to the United Nations.
In conclusion, it is claimed in London, Washington and Madrid that war could be short, swift and successful.
Never, since the end of the cold war, has there been, on a world-wide scale, such a powerful camp clearly in favour of peace and promoting the law and multilateral cooperation.
It is within that camp that the voice of Europe promoting world solidarity must and will have to make itself heard.
This makes even more legitimate our demand for in-depth discussion between Member States and with our partners, before the ratification of the accession treaties and the vote on the future constitution and on the vision of Europe which we intend to promote together in order to respond to the will expressed by our fellow citizens.
This unprecedented explosion of public opinion has, no doubt, made it easier for a large majority of the governments of the world to take a stand against the war, starting with the governments of the countries of the South, and, in particular, the Non-Aligned Movement, which alone represents two thirds of the United Nations General Assembly.
That is our second trump card.
Let us also pay homage to all those authorities on international law who teach at Oxford, Cambridge or the London School of Economics and those three hundred eminent Spanish legal authors, who all deny that there is any legal justification for the use of military force against Iraq even before the event.
Another important dimension is the contribution of the weapons inspectors, who have shown great firmness towards Baghdad while, at the same time, standing up to Washington and London, which they have not been slow to accuse of having given them false information.
I should also like to make special mention of those men and women working for the UN agencies, who are often, along with certain European representatives in the region, the only ones to think first and foremost of the people of that region, and of the torment that is being imposed on them in Iraq, in Palestine, and in the Arab world in general.
We, that is to say the diverse delegation of Members of the European Parliament who had already visited Baghdad last month, have just established, at the US Congress, long-term cooperation links with the elected representatives of Washington, Ohio, California and even Texas.
There, you have a United States which does not despise Europe, but which places its hopes in Europe and welcomes its representatives with open arms.
They told us that 126 elected representatives voted against war, notably two thirds of the Democrat representatives; that 130 US cities, including Washington, Philadelphia and Los Angeles, have adopted resolutions opposing military action, that AFL-CIO, the major group of affiliated trade unions, has declared itself to be of the same opinion, and that the anti-war movement (United for Peace and Justice, Women for Peace, etc.) is receiving unprecedented support prior to the start of the conflict.
The New York Times, too, has chosen to say no to war.
Article 19 of the Treaty on European Union says one very simple thing, namely that all the governments represented within the Security Council must uphold the position defined by the European Union.
Spain, the UK, France and Germany must therefore uphold a common position.
This is precisely the memorandum proposed by France and Germany.
However, since there is disarmament and since there are inspections, it is not necessary to go to war.
Then, however, an agreement is concluded with the military, over the heads of the parliament, which consists of democratic representatives, in order to obtain what could not be obtained through democracy, and the Turkish people are told, 'This is how the democracy that we are going to bring you works'.
That is precisely the sort of liberation that the Kurds have been dreaming of for a hundred years: finally they will be under the domination of the Turkish army!
There is no question of making war on Iran, and yet the people in Iran are fighting for democracy.
Yes, it is necessary to change the regime in Baghdad, just as it is necessary to change the regime in Saudi Arabia, in Tunisia, and in this or that African country, but that cannot be done by means of a military invasion, of whatever kind.
Let us therefore shoulder responsibility for some of the democracies in the world, and let us not say that peace will reign if there is no military intervention in Iraq.
It is not peace, but then war is not the best way of ensuring that the Iraqi people are finally allowed to live in peace.
It has contributed much, and if we look at the last 50 years, no one can forget the crucial role that it has played in defending freedom.
Either international rules exist and each nation has to obey them, or we believe that we have taken a great step backwards and that, from now on, power takes precedence over law and, as soon as one has power, one is the strongest and has the right to intervene.
In that case, I propose that the United Nations Charter should be amended to the effect that, from now on, the right to interfere should include, for the strongest powers, the right to intervene whenever it seems to them necessary in order to defend their general interests, their vital interests.
The United States has been the victim of a terrible attack.
Consequently, the United States, before engaging in this military operation, should tell us what its real reasons are, the deep-seated reasons why it wants to intervene.
Nevertheless, we have the right to say what we think and I would say that, as far as the French delegation is concerned including, in particular, myself, although in no way am I dependent on the French Government, it supports the position adopted by the President of the French Republic, namely to oppose, by all possible means, the launching of a military operation.
Mr President, there is a bizarre contradiction in this Iraq debate.
A number of large Member States are working hard for the political status quo in Iraq.
All because of a murderous megalomaniac who for years has simply been refusing to comply fully with UN resolutions.
At the same time the Member States of the European Union should finally show some concern for Iraq's political and socio-economic future, because there really are alternatives to Saddam's 'Republic of Fear'.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the camp of those who are opposed to the unjust pre-emptive war that the UK and the US intends to launch in Iraq is growing in strength from day to day, both in national public opinions, as demonstrated by surveys and demonstrations, and in the United Nations Security Council.
The diplomatic resolve of France, Germany and Russia may give the politicians of the United Kingdom, and even those of the United States, pause for thought.
War is war, but the prelude to war is not war.
At a time when world peace is on the edge of a precipice, it would not be dishonourable - quite the contrary - to refrain, despite the Homeric speeches and the money that has been spent, from an act which is so unjust, so contrary to human rights, and so dangerous.
Should the US not go to war, it would not be unthinkable for the united European Parliament - why not? - to propose to the parliamentary committee in Oslo that the Nobel Peace Prize be awarded to George W.
Bush for having helped to achieve, in Iraq, the objectives set by the United Nations, without shedding blood or tears, that he be credited, on his own account and on behalf of his people, with having gained this great peaceful victory.
Mr President, this is a very special day for me in the European Parliament.
We recognise that this situation is dangerous and volatile, but let us be clear that it remains dangerous and volatile thanks to the continuing evasion of the Iraqi regime and, sadly, also the gamesmanship of some European governments.
These governments appear to have lost sight of the fundamental issue that is at stake here, which is the very real threat that the regime in Baghdad poses to the peace and security of the Middle East and indeed to the wider world.
I must say that the events of recent months have also demonstrated two important truths for us here in the European Parliament and for Europe more generally.
Some anti-American voices in Europe have been playing out their contempt for all things American, and we may hear more of that in this debate.
We have also seen some politicians in Europe who are prepared to weaken NATO and the transatlantic alliance in their aim of developing Europe as some sort of antagonist or counter-weight, rather than as an ally of the United States.
Let me make it clear beyond any doubt, on behalf of the British Conservatives, that we stand resolutely behind NATO as the bedrock of our security and defence.
I make no apology for repeating our belief in NATO and the value that we attach to our partnership with the United States.
I believe that the actions of France, Germany and Belgium in fomenting division within the Alliance over the crucial issue of Turkey's security are nothing short of deplorable.
The coming days will be a test of the will of the international community and of the credibility of the United Nations.
On 11 September 2001, every nation and government in Europe without exception rallied round the United States of America when it came under terrorist attack.
At the same time, as regards the candidate countries, which are somewhat differentiated when it comes to the possibility of a unified stance, Europe needs to take care as it builds its future within the Convention, which is laying down new ground rules in the form of a constitution, that it does not cause internal rifts which do not then close.
I should like to remind you, and all the pundits agree here, that there are two conflicting strategies in America: there is one strategy for how America lives with the rest of the world and there is another strategy with a theocratic slant, with America trying to determine the course of history on the basis of a subjective evaluation of international interests.
We therefore have to realise that persistence is needed at times when our policies may be able to bring about practical results which do not in turn foster new crises.
Ladies and gentlemen, we really are at a crucial stage, but I think that every crisis contains in it the germ of a new standard.
Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's message should be that it wants to take a peaceful approach to international problems, that it wants to resolve problems peacefully using procedures that pave the way for democracy throughout the world.
Mr President, in my own country, Sweden, a priest proposed yesterday that, in order to avoid war, someone should be paid to kill Saddam Hussein.
The discussions now being conducted within the Arab world to induce Saddam Hussein to resign are extremely interesting.
The Arab world should have been involved much earlier in the discussion of the future of the whole of the Middle East.
The United States, the EU and the UN Security Council ought to have shown greater commitment to solving the conflict between Israel and Palestine.
The progress that has been made has been due not to Saddam Hussein's having become willing to cooperate but to the resolutions and the threat of military force.
It is our view that if, in fact, any military decisions are to be taken, they must be taken by the UN Security Council.
The horse trading that is going on in order to convince countries to vote yes or no in the Security Council is pathetic and damages the entire international community.
When the permanent members quarrel, these difficult decisions are left to countries such as Ghana, Cameroon and Angola.
The UN is divided, as are NATO and the EU, and transatlantic relations are damaged.
As the weapons inspectors become more successful in their work, the purpose of the war is, however, changing.
Excuse me, but I thought the idea was to disarm Iraq and destroy its weapons of mass destruction.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, over the last ten years, since the Gulf War, the United States has been developing a 'mother of all bombs'.
Europe in that time has been putting patience and diplomacy to use in an attempt to enlarge the Union.
If Parliament and the Commission were to accept ultimate responsibility, the EU could act with authority for the benefit of world peace and an international legal order.
The United States and Great Britain were subsequently able to bomb in Iraq with greater success.
We must therefore pursue this path and we must unite the European countries around this position.
The fact is that after more than ten years and 17 UN resolutions, the Iraqi regime is still delaying destroying its illegal weapons.
This time, however, Saddam Hussein will not be able to continue to defy international law.
We are also on the side of international law, because we want to see immediate and unconditional compliance with the 17 UN resolutions on Iraq's disarmament.
We are on the side of those who know that collective security comes at a price and that we must not confine ourselves to antagonising those who are paying this price by applying the only weapon of deterrence that Saddam Hussein acknowledges and fears - the more than 200 000 soldiers on the ground.
So, incidentally, has the East, the region that poor Samuel Huntington so foolishly referred to as 'the Moslem world', but which includes both nations which are in favour of the war, such as Kuwait, and nations which are against it, such as many Arab countries, and even countries which have abstained from deciding one way or the other, such as Pakistan.
As for France, the crisis has revealed her as she is, and as she always will be, the only real rampart, defending against empires the freedom of the people, which is another name for the freedom ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the apparently inevitable choice in this House, as indeed in the United Nations, is between war, with or without the backing of the Security Council, and the weak yet appealing position of those who are asking for more time for the inspections; those in favour of the latter alternative are relying, it must be said, on the Anglo-American military pressure on Saddam's regime and are, in fact, making the inspections an end in themselves, although they are well aware that Hans Blix and his men are unlikely to be able to get Saddam to disarm by themselves.
All the same, this very morning, many Members have execrated Saddam's regime and called for democracy and freedom for the Iraqi people.
We Radicals, together with hundreds of other public figures and members of parliament from very many countries, are convinced that there is still time and space for another scenario: the exile of the dictator of Baghdad as the only real way to avert war.
It is a scenario that a number of Arab governments in the region have been working on for some time and which could be taken up by the European Union in view of the forthcoming Security Council resolution.
Then there is post-Saddam Iraq, which nobody has mentioned today: we are convinced that this scenario should be accompanied by the United Nations taking over provisional administration of Iraq for at least two years.
I hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that Europe may once again speak with one and the same voice on this basis.
Mr President, it has been said here that some progress towards disarmament has been made, although the scale of this progress is hard to measure in relative terms, because the obligation to prove that weapons of mass destruction have been destroyed has not been fulfilled.
Let us recall that the inspectors did not leave the country in 1998 of their own free will, but were expelled because the regime thought that the danger had passed.
I also wish to point out that, for the moment, everyone, except for Saddam Hussein, has acted with the utmost respect for international law.
If decisions and votes are being postponed in the United Nations Security Council, it is precisely in order to reach an agreement that will enable us to continue to act within international law, laying down concrete conditions for disarmament and precise dates by which this is to be achieved because, as the European Council stated, inspections cannot go on indefinitely.
And this agreement, Mr President, must be founded on the Member States' will to achieve consensus, on respect for the opinions of others, on not attempting to impose on others policies based on faits accomplis and on abandoning strident attitudes.
My sincere congratulations to you, Mr President-in-Office, on your success, your major success in leading the European Union to agreement on a common position in Brussels on 17 February.
Mr President, the threat of a punishment must always be so credible that the punishment does not need to be carried out.
Bush and Blair have now become the prisoners of their own rhetoric and their diplomatic inability to mobilise sufficient support.
With no green light from the Security Council, all that remains for them is the choice between two evils: to do nothing and consequently lose face or to take military action outside the UN with all the negative consequences that entails.
A unilateral military intervention will lead to unprecedented instability and seriously impede the reconstruction of Iraq.
European policy must consist of maintaining the pressure on Saddam and certainly there must be no headlong rush to war.
Mr President, Commissioner, the United States thought it could manipulate the United Nations in order to obtain legal cover for its predatory war in Iraq, but the UN stood its ground.
The UN and public opinion worldwide want nothing to do with this war.
The Iraqi people are innocent.
Why, when they have been suffering for so long under such a cruel embargo, is it necessary to bomb them as well?
This war will precipitate a conflict between civilisations.
This time, it is not the Islamic fundamentalists who are pushing for war, but the US administration.
We must preserve peace.
Mr President, I should like, first of all, to thank Commissioner Patten for the high quality of his speech, and also those Members who have argued unambiguously in favour of disarming Iraq by means of inspections and peaceful avenues.
Yet how can we explain to the people of the countries described as rogue states that weapons of mass destruction are bad when they belong to those countries but that they are good when they belong to so-called 'virtuous' states?
These virtuous states lie, in particular, in Europe, but there is also the United States, whose army is ready to use such weapons of mass destruction, in other words tactical nuclear weapons, in the war that they want to launch in Iraq.
Last week, in fact, we had an opportunity to meet US elected representatives who are openly opposed to the use of force.
Mr President, all the fine words about Saddam Hussein's having to be disarmed and about the Iraqi people's being entitled to freedom ring remarkably hollow in a situation in which we all know that Saddam Hussein has not the slightest intention of disarming or going into exile, let alone of giving the oppressed Iraqi people their freedom.
Today, the Chamberlains of our own time say that Saddam Hussein can be disarmed by the weapons inspectors.
The war against Saddam Hussein must be a war of liberation.
Mr President, the worldwide confrontation on the subject of Iraq between two concepts of international relations is splitting Europe in two.
If Europe has a real presence in this crisis, it is not thanks to the mechanisms of the CFSP, but to the political will of a certain number of European states.
The Convention will therefore have to learn certain lessons from this return to reality.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the present time makes it possible for us to observe what a misjudgment it is for European states, with their present dimensions, to define their interests solely in national terms, and how impossible it is to get national interests to prevail in global disputes such as these.
We now see this demonstrated by the tragic situation in which the British prime minister finds himself, having been so faithful in his support for the Americans; his inability to produce the right results means that he may well now be at a disadvantage.
It is for this reason that I hope that this crisis, rather than damaging the development of a European foreign and security policy, will serve as a catalyst that will enable us to make the necessary progress on this issue.
It will be extremely difficult to restart the transatlantic dialogue, and, above all, to gain our citizens' support for it.
Our plans for the future simply cannot involve the formation of axes with Moscow and Peking, and our choice of role models alienating us from the United States of America, a country with which we have values in common.
I do think, though, that this means that we as the European Union - if we speak with one voice - have to make it clear that, in the fight against dictators like Saddam Hussein and against international terrorism, military action may well be important, but that this war can be won on the global stage only if we possess the capacity for prevention and cultural dialogue, are aware of the concept of social justice, and can work on a large scale in dealing with this subject matter as a whole.
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that the applause that greeted your speech simply acknowledged the fact that you have demonstrated, this morning, that a European Commissioner can embody the voice of Europeans and that there is indeed a European line in this crisis.
We are told that a blitzkrieg would make it possible first of all to establish democracy in Iraq and then to dry up the springs of terrorism.
It is in this spirit that we believe that the right of veto of certain permanent members of the Security Council should be used if it is not possible to achieve a majority.
In view of this situation, we do not believe that any European country, by itself, can in the long term hold its own against what would effectively be the pax americana.
I say Europe, Mr President, rather than Parliament or the Council or the Commission, and I am thinking of the European people, who are overwhelmingly against a war to disarm Iraq, let alone a war to change the Iraqi regime.
The European Council of 17 February took a stand: war should only be a very last resort and, anyway, there should be no war without a specific United Nations mandate.
That is why Iraq must be disarmed, but only through the UN; the democratisation of Iraq must be supported, but only through the UN.
We say to some of our European brothers that a vote in the Security Council contrary to the Brussels document, contrary to the will of Parliament and contrary to the Commission's opinion would strike at the heart of Europe.
The Security Council could not decide on intervention in Kosovo, but NATO carried it out with the agreement of the European Council.
Also in question are the authority and prestige of our friend and ally, the United States, and also the brotherhood between our peoples, never so close as after 11 September, but today never so threatened on the eve of an unnecessary, unjust and unlawful war.
The United States should realise that the people's elected representatives meeting here are fighting against anti-Americanism and therefore ask the United States to show more respect for Europe's ideas and convictions.
It is obvious now that the values upheld by President Bush have nothing to do with democracy, but are values quoted on the stock exchange and values that smell of oil.
Democracy means taking up this challenge, and not a single elected representative or government can escape that fact.
Mr President, every day, the advocates of a war in the Middle East resort to ever weaker and ever less credible arguments.
In Great Britain, over two hundred Labour Members of Parliament have expressed their opposition to a war.
They deserve our respect.
Mr President, will we have to resort to arms in order to make Saddam Hussein give up his programmes for the development, manufacture and stockpiling of weapons of mass destruction once and for all and prove that he has done so?
I also share the opinion of those who maintain that, if we had to envisage this last resort, it could only be with a mandate from the United Nations, the only organisation which is entitled to legitimise such action, and that, Mr Barón Crespo, would betoken a radical change in the behaviour of the international community, which until now has always supported the idea that the use of armed force can only be envisaged in the case of legitimate defence, and therefore in response to an actual attack ?
However, I should like to remind you that it was on this subject, namely the legitimacy or illegitimacy of any preventive or pre-emptive military action, that our group was unwilling to support the majority position expressed by this House in its last resolution.
In other words, President-in-Office of the Council, how can we stand up to the new challenge posed by international terrorism except by applying, in this field as in any other, the precautionary principle which is now unanimously recognised?
Personally, I believe that any Head of State or Government who is warned of a serious threat to the lives of thousands of his fellow citizens, and who does not take all measures necessary to protect them from it, will be held guilty in their eyes.
This is what we are all, together, trying to achieve in Iraq, and what it will probably be necessary for us to do tomorrow in North Korea, and it is with that conviction in mind that I would like to repeat, here and now, that our current differences are much more apparent than real.
Mr President, the role of the inspectors appears to be crucial to this debate so perhaps I should spend some time looking at their activities.
On 7 March UNMOVIC published a document entitled 'Unresolved disarmament issues: Iraq's proscribed weapons programme'.
That document is 173 pages long and it lists 29 separate sets of unresolved issues; these include the strong presumption that 10 000 litres of anthrax still exist.
The report is a clear indication that Iraq is in breach of Resolution 1441, it is not fully cooperating with the inspectors, nor is it coming clean.
Indeed on 7 March the Iraqi permanent representative to the UN yet again, despite this evidence, claimed Iraq does not have weapons of mass destruction.
Let us remember that 12 years ago Iraq was given 15 days to disarm.
If we cannot take effective action to disarm Iraq then the UN is finished as an effective force and the big countries will be acting unilaterally to the detriment of world peace and stability.
We must have a second UN resolution, we must have a clear timetable in order to say inspectors can go on for so long but no further.
When that happens, then we must prepare to go to war.
It is also a fact that the war, with or without a UN resolution, will have terrible consequences not just for the Iraqi people, but for the region, Europe and the world as a whole.
At the same time, let us express our solidarity with the Iraqi people in their fight to overturn this tyrannical regime.
Looking at all the banners here in the Chamber I see, over and over again, the faces of the representatives of democratic states, but never the face of Saddam Hussein.
The willingness of the United States and the United Kingdom to extend the ultimatum to Saddam Hussein opens up a new glimmer of hope for peace.
The document adopted on 17 February must be the starting point for action by the Council and the Commission, and it is the primary duty of all the political groups represented in Parliament to act to prevent the credibility of the United Nations being eroded away.
We must learn from these difficulties so that Europe can, once again, play a leading role on the international stage.
We must not, however, Mr President, forget the relationship and shared values that link us to the United States of America - a country deeply scarred by the attacks of 11 September, attacks that also scarred every one of us, every European - and we must not allow Washington to be left alone.
This is because every act of international diplomacy these days can only be aimed at building a solution to the Iraqi crisis.
The European Union and the United States must find joint initiatives within the framework of the international order.
That is also the case with the Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein.
For us Europeans, who work on the assumption that there should be compliance with international agreements and a policy of cooperation, it has been a difficult experience to find that only military pressure has persuaded Saddam Hussein to allow the work of the weapons inspectors to be carried out.
Prior to that the Iraqi leadership had defied the decisions of the UN and not agreed to give up its weapons of mass destruction and weapons programmes.
My country, Finland, strongly emphasises the importance of the UN's role in finding a solution to the Iraq crisis.
The Security Council must consider how much time it has got left on the basis of the weapons inspectors' report.
The aim should obviously be for Iraq to be disarmed without the use of force.
If this calls for military action it must have the approval of the Security Council.
The weapons inspectors must be given enough time to do their work, but that must not mean that Saddam Hussein can play endless games with the international community.
Throngs of people throughout the world have gone onto the streets to demonstrate in favour of a peaceful solution to the Iraq dispute.
The role of the UN and its Security Council must come first in resolving the Iraq crisis.
If the UN cannot now act we are in danger of losing the most essential global instrument we have in safeguarding world peace.
The European Union must now take a united stand and use all its powers to shore up the viability of the UN.
These are difficult times, but we have ability and experience on our side; the experience of previous Greek presidencies and of the administration of the late Andreas Papandreou, who was firmly in favour of peace and the autonomy of Europe.
We can maintain our alliances, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, including with the USA, but - to quote an historic precedent - it was not America's friends who told them to drop napalm on Vietnam; America's friends told them to stop the war.
Your heart is in the right place, but we want results.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, nobody is left unaffected by the danger of war in Iraq.
I know nobody who would not rather see a peaceful solution in Iraq.
Europe still does not speak with one voice in matters of foreign policy - indeed, it does so less now than ever before.
That is why Europe needs the United States of America as a guarantor of peace and freedom in the world.
It is not Europe that is in a position to contain the conflict between India and Pakistan.
It is not Europe that is able to take up positions in North Korea in defence of our security.
On its own, Europe does not have the capacity to combat international terrorism.
On this continent of ours, we have often had to deal with despots whose intentions were apparent from the outset, as are those of Saddam Hussein.
No less important than getting answers to these questions is the need to give some thought to the region's future.
For my part, I am convinced that, in the present situation, the best way is that of continued work by the weapons inspectors, quite simply because military intervention is always the last resort.
Such intervention would have very grave consequences, not only for the population of Iraq and all the innocent people who would be affected but also, I believe, for continued relations with the Arab world.
We must bear in mind that the inspections are working because of the pressure on Saddam Hussein and the threat of armed intervention.
This situation cannot go on forever, but the time limits that have up until now been proposed by the United States and others have been quite unrealistic.
We must therefore join together in helping to maintain this system.
The EU's role in this conflict is a sorry chapter.
The proud declarations concerning the common foreign and security policy that are usually made on solemn occasions have of course proved brittle when they have been put to the test.
If the EU is in future to play a role in the area of foreign policy, we must learn from what has happened.
If we are to be able to play a role in Iraq, in the Middle East, in the Korean peninsula and in other places, common policy must take precedence over national interests.
Otherwise, the EU will not be able to play an important role in the future.
This is not due to differences over the depressing, dictatorial regime in Iraq or even the dangers inherent in Saddam Hussein's possessing weapons of mass destruction, dangers which were confirmed and agreed in Resolution 1441, which must be applied fully, no one doubts that; an overwhelming majority of people and governments throughout the world have realised that this crisis goes far beyond Iraq and its leadership and basically has to do with the future order of the world, a world being called on to choose between high-handed unilateralism on the one hand and legitimate collective management of international problems on the other.
It is precisely against these prospects that we need a firm stand by the European Union and the European Parliament, as the elected representative of its people, who have joined with the American people in a common fight to defend the rule of law which the current American administration seems determined to flout.
The paradox, however, is that war has never been so close, and that, if disarmament is the objective of this war, disarmament is, in fact, taking place.
Then again, if the problem is geopolitical and economic, if it is power versus law, then no, no, and no again, and we must oppose it.
Let us not, tomorrow, drop humanitarian bombs on Iraq, on an Iraq which we shall have succeeded in disarming, but not succeeded in protecting.
The reason why the European Union displayed such strong unity and solidarity in the wake of 11 September is because we appreciated that contribution, and value the strong transatlantic alliance.
Foreign policy hawks in the US Administration would do well to remember that the roots of current world crises relating to Saddam Hussein and Osama Bin Laden are a product of past dubious US foreign policy decisions.
The UK and the US should pause and reflect before they embark on a course of action without UN authority.
The UN is the accepted custodian of international law, with unique structures and processes to uphold it.
This means that anyone supporting this principle must abide by its decisions, including the use of veto.
Military action without UN approval will increase antagonisms between the West and the Muslim world; it will inflame the Middle East and it will deal a devastating blow, not only to the credibility of the UN, but also to the future potential of the European Union Common and Foreign Security Policy.
Mr President, many claim the split over Iraq is between Europe and the USA.
France and Germany have alienated America, undermined the UN and NATO and exposed the difficulties of achieving the CFSP.
France and Russia will be judged harshly for using their UN veto for cynical, commercial interests in a second resolution, sending all the wrong signals to Baghdad.
There are legitimate differences over the immediacy of the military threat posed by Iraq, but Saddam Hussein continues to defy the credibility of the UN in its pursuit of weapons of mass destruction.
Interestingly, Iraq and North Korea are the only two cases in the world of non-compliance with NPT safeguard agreements and I would not wish to see Iraq in the position that North Korea is in now, possessing nuclear weapons and immune from assault.
The allies must install a democratic government to prevent refugee flows or instability in the region, allowing the 200 000 in my constituency, London, to return and guarantee that Iraq's oil wealth be used for its people and not for arms purchases.
The Clinton administration appeased North Korea for years, bankrolling the regime while it starved its own people and secretly carried on developing nuclear weapons, contrary to the 1994 agreement.
Perhaps the appeasers in this House could also explain why they embraced a war in Kosovo that involved no weapons of mass destruction or threat to other states without any UN authority and now find it so difficult to take action against an evil, genocidal dictator who has started two wars responsible for the deaths of almost one million people and who has gassed more people in a single day than died in the whole of the Kosovo conflict.
Certainly, once the almost inevitable war is over, the US, through the Quartet, must show resolve for a road map solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict and ensure a viable two-state solution.
Mr President, what has happened to the EU's common foreign and security policy?
When, the day before yesterday, President Chirac announced the French approach within the UN, cooperation with Russia appeared to be more important than talks and deliberations with EU colleagues in the Security Council, such as Great Britain, Germany, Spain and the candidate country, Bulgaria.
A month ago, the French president wagged his finger at the candidate countries and demanded a declaration of solidarity with the EU.
Is there, then, not good reason now for demanding a declaration of solidarity by the French president in respect of the EU's common foreign and security policy?
Those who demand that the weapons inspectors should be given more time to enable them to find Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction lack support under UN Resolution 1441 for their declared position.
On the contrary, it is Saddam Hussein's task to produce his weapons of mass destruction and destroy them under the weapons inspectors' supervision.
If Saddam Hussein has already destroyed the weapons of mass destruction he possessed, then he must supply the weapons inspectors with documents to that effect.
He has repeatedly defied the UN, and he has never in actual fact complied with UN demands.
Mr President, in recent weeks we have witnessed dangerous rifts in the United Nations and in the international institutions of the democracies.
The future European Union is already split between 18 countries which have declared one view and three or four which have declared the opposite.
We should be clear that it is Russia and France that armed him.
For example, last October the Deutsche Bank estimated that contracts concerning new oil fields in Iraq, worth USD 38 billion, were signed with oil companies mainly from China, France and Russia.
It is right also not to allow the idea to persist that two or three countries speak for Europe, define its policies and drive them forward, while the views of the rest, many of which attach great importance to the transatlantic alliance, are portrayed as some sort of aberration.
Mr President, this is the second time that I have spoken in a legislative assembly in support of a British Prime Minister contemplating sending British troops into action in Iraq.
I did so 12 years ago when the then Conservative Prime Minister, the then Conservative Government, of which Commissioner Patten was a distinguished Member, committed British troops to repel the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.
We did so on a commitment by Saddam Hussein that the weapons of mass destruction would be dismantled.
We have a simple choice: either we believe what Saddam Hussein says and believe that he will still go on to disarm in a voluntary way, or we take the hard, difficult decision to commit the lives of our young men and women to enforce the will of the international community.
The Bush administration has never hidden its determination to remove Saddam Hussein by force if necessary.
Instead of seeking common ground and leading the debate, France and Britain - the two countries most responsible for the mess in the Middle East after the First World War - have fallen out again.
Meanwhile, in speech after speech, Washington, with the security of a President in mid-term, has placed a vast army in the region and has explicitly talked about wider regime change.
Our efforts to promote democracy and human rights in the world are founded in the framework of the Democracy and Human Rights Programme.
Mr President, Saddam Hussein is the root cause of the Iraqi crisis.
Without the military pressure imposed by the United States and its allies - mainly Great Britain - upon the Iraqi dictator, Saddam Hussein, the UN weapons inspectors would not have been allowed into the country.
The existence of these self-propelled missiles was long denied by the Iraqi regime.
Ever since its defeat in the Gulf War in 1991, Iraq has systematically sabotaged the possibility of the UN weapons inspectors' investigating the presence of weapons of mass destruction in the country.
The then American defence minister, William Cohen, warned Iraq when the UN weapons inspectors were thrown out in November 1998 with the words: the tug-of-war cannot go on for ever.
He did not hesitate to employ chemical weapons against Iranian soldiers during the Iran-Iraq war of the 1980s and gassed 5 000 Kurds to death in the city of Halabja in 1988 during the final phase of the war.
He must be got rid off, partly in order to create peace and stability in the region but, in the first place, in the interests of freedom and democracy for Iraq's oppressed population.
First of all, is there any possibility of resolving the crisis diplomatically in the short time left.
It seems to me that all of you, like the Council of the European Union and the unanimous Security Council, take the same position on disarming Iraq and the need for immediate and unrestricted cooperation with the Security Council on the part of Saddam Hussein.
We have, of course, emphasised that Saddam Hussein himself is responsible for any consequences.
Our responsibility is to remain united, so that we can formulate a common position and speak with one voice here; our responsibility is to empower the UN with the authority and the resources at our disposal.
I would again point out that the European Council's position is that war is not inevitable and I would emphasise again today that, until the first bomb is dropped, war is not inevitable.
We need to continue in our diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis peacefully.
First, in the Convention on the future of Europe, questions such as stepping up the debate about defence and our foreign policy and even, I think, the power of the European institutions, the authority of the European institutions and the democratic credentials of the European institutions, so that they can stand united and with an authority that truly represents the citizens of Europe.
Finally, as far as a European voice is concerned, I have a couple of comments to make about enlargement.
First of all, we are a community of values which respects differences of opinion - and there are differences - and we want the new countries joining us to join a democratic society.
My third point, and this was a question raised by a number of members, concerns the crisis in the United States.
It would be a big mistake to get tied up in conventions and stereotypes: new Europe versus old Europe, America as the baddies, Europe as the goodies or Europe as the baddies, weak Europe versus strong America.
I should like to say here that you, the European Parliament, have a very important part to play.
We need to actively involve American society and talk to it and the European Parliament can play a very important role in this dialogue with American society, especially with the American Congress.
Fourthly, I should like to say something about the Arab world.
I can tell you from my own experience and from my discussions with the Arab world that the action, role and voice of Europe have helped not only to prevent this but to strengthen our cooperation with the Arab world.
So I think our position is very important and the Arabs certainly approve of it.
Mr Cohn-Bendit spoke about democracy in the Arab world.
We therefore have to cultivate democratic institutions.
And here again the European Union has a very important part to play in the Arab world, in a dialogue to assist these very reforms, with respect for the Arab world and with respect for its understandable sensitivities.
Finally, here too Parliament has a very important role to play, especially the European Parliament, where we want to formalise the meeting of parliamentarians within the context of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation.
We are deeply concerned about Turkey, it is a candidate country and, as the European Union, we have a special responsibility for it because it is a candidate country, we have a responsibility because in 2004 we have an important decision to take about Turkey's progress towards Europe, a decision about its progress towards integration which, as I said earlier, means integration into a community of values.
I think that the Turkish parliament really is acquiring democratic momentum which we must respect and build on.
Here again the European Parliament has an important role to play.
However, the European Union is against any thought of changing the borders and threatening the territorial integrity of Iraq.
I think this is an important message that needs to be underlined. (Applause) This crisis is also causing Turkey serious economic problems, which will be even worse if there is a war and we in the European Union must understand that.
We want them in the Council, we want them in the European institutions. (Applause) That means, however, the Cyprus question needs to be resolved.
My thanks to you and the President for your forbearance but, as I am sure you understand, this is a very important debate.
We are indeed in the middle of a crisis but, as the Chinese say, a crisis is both a threat and an opportunity.
The main opportunity here is to reform our own institutions and operations so that we have a more important voice on the international stage, a united voice.
In turn, unity must be based on the democratic credentials of any new institutions we set up and on our addressing the democratic deficit, because our citizens want this common voice and have already said as much by taking to the streets of the European Union.
Secondly, it is an opportunity to restate our relations with the Arab world, as I said, through cultural dialogue.
It is an opportunity for new relations with the United States, articulated around the issues of security, democracy and multilateral diplomacy.
This moral authority must be safeguarded if we want to live in a world of security and freedom.
Ladies and gentlemen, the presidency will make every effort to respond to the demands of the citizens of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Member States.
At the same time, whatever the outcome of the crisis, I should like to call on you to work with us and use this opportunity to ensure that a stronger Europe emerges from this crisis and the voice of our values is heard loud and clear on the international stage, calling for greater democracy and security on our continent. (Applause) You said very clearly that Parliament had an important role to play.
The debate is closed.
In today's debate, however, we have clearly felt, among certain speakers, the beginnings of a slide towards a sort of anti-American exaltation.
For my part, I should like to avoid such distractions, and return to the main question which we are beginning to forget: namely, how to disarm Saddam Hussein without waiting ten years to do it.
As rapporteur, I asked myself whether we should go along with this game, but we decided to leave well alone.
It therefore follows that some Member States do not give the full figures, as then they would have to pay more.
Nevertheless, the result does not yet entirely meet our expectations.
This is because there are a number of passages concerning SME policy and concerning tax reduction that we cannot wholeheartedly support.
I would therefore like to call on my group to refrain from voting on this report. . (PT) I broadly share the rapporteur's concerns about the need to adapt companies' obligations to file information to the digital age.
I believe that the greater speed and transparency resulting from these measures will provide greater certainty and security for companies' corporate life and for commercial practices, benefiting all those involved, the interested parties in general and, ultimately, end consumers themselves.
The provision that companies' websites should also contain the minimum particulars laid down in Article 4 of Directive 68/151/EEC is also important.
I therefore voted in favour of the report. . (PT) I have voted in favour of this report because I attach enormous importance to adopting better and swifter measures for dispute resolution in civil and commercial matters.
These various amendments have not been taken up in the common position adopted by the Council, and this is why I am voting in favour of Amendment No 7 tabled by the competent committee.
In fact, there is good reason to recognise pure plant oil as a biofuel given its many environmental advantages, but also because the decentralised production of oil in farms would allow the farmers in question to gain added value from their production.
However, this need could work in favour of PPO, since an entire economic sector could thereby be established, with all the economic and social benefits that would bring.
I am sorry that the Council has removed the mandatory nature of targets for bringing biofuels onto the market and has even allowed Member States to set targets lower than those proposed in the directive.
The Pensioners' Party is absolutely in favour of this report and, above all, wants Europe to regulate and strengthen pension funds based on capital formation, which are surely better than pay-as-you-go funds, which individual governments have not known how to manage properly.
I regret, however, Mr President, that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, in which we discussed it, did not accept a Fatuzzo amendment calling on Member States to intervene in the event of the collapse or insolvency of pension funds.
There are an awful lot of people in our countries today who are very concerned about their pensions.
We believe that the funding of retirement pensions should be based on the principle of contributory schemes.
Furthermore, the text submitted to us at second reading is not acceptable and the subsequent proposals of Commissioner Bolkestein and the amendments voted for by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs do not sufficiently improve the balance of the text.
It is not a question of encroaching on the prerogatives of the Member States in the social field, but of the will of the European Parliament, the body representing the citizens, to stress the social importance of the text.
We reject this forced takeover. . (PT) As we all know, given the demographic changes that have taken place in the countries of the Union, it was decided, at the Lisbon Council, and in the wake of the action plan for financial services, to create a Europe-wide internal market for occupational pensions, and the utmost priority was attached to this issue.
On the basis of the principle that 'particularly where a major part of retirement provision is already provided by a pay-as-you-go system it is necessary to encourage additional contributions to retirement provision based on capital formation', the proposal for a directive is intended to facilitate the further expansion of occupational pensions as the second pillar of retirement provision, a Europe-wide organised internal market, which must contribute to greater efficiency, transparency and security within the second pillar.
Although the report tends to interfere with the labour and social legislation of the Member States, by proposing the regulation of pension funds at European level, not only for the capitals market but also for the social security systems of their beneficiaries, I have in the final analysis supported it, since it expresses the correct options for this field which, incidentally, are being adopted by the Portuguese Government. . (DE) I mistakenly voted against Amendment No 38, tabled by the GUE/NGL Group.
The Communist Party of Greece is radically opposed to this process.
That is the impression given by the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS).
Although Article 16 of the EC Treaty clearly defines the role they play in the social and territorial cohesion of the Union, public services are being sold off at a cheap price.
The mandate given to the Commission should be decided unanimously by the Member States, and not by a qualified majority.
It should also be public.
Nobody has been able to see its content, not even the national parliaments, who have not been able to debate it.
And it is they who have voted for the creation of public services.
We have voted against Parliament's resolution which gives the Commission a mandate to negotiate a liberalisation of the trade in services, within the so-called GATS round.
Our fears are all the greater when we see that the Convention presided over by Valéry Giscard d'Estaing intends to include trade policy amongst the exclusive competences of the Union, dealt with by means of a qualified majority, and to remove the exceptions (cultural and audiovisual services, education, social services and health services) which Article 133(6) of the EC Treaty stated should be dealt with by means of unanimity.
However, should these areas be considered more sensitive than others, than the production of water or nuclear engineering, for example?
The liberals and conservatives of all kinds (and colours) who have signed a joint resolution have caused the failure of all the attempts to defend cultural diversity and reject the commoditisation of culture.
I am sorry that, on a subject which is so important for the future of European citizens, we have to be content with a resolution procedure.
A Commissioner should only speak on behalf of the European Union after having negotiated their mandate with the elected representatives.
The Constitution should take account of this democratic deficit if it is to succeed in bringing Europe closer to its citizens.
As the amendments proposing a new political direction for the text have been rejected, I am voting against the resolution.
Some claim that the developing countries have asked for these agreements.
They have no choice but to privatise their public services, as the level of their debt prevents them from receiving any loans intended for the development of public services, in particular, water.
The WTO should no longer be the Trojan horse of a form of liberalism that has proved its limitations and its inability to improve the quality of life of the majority of the world's citizens.
The general line of the project is clear, however: to pursue the liberalisation of services and strengthen the role of the WTO within the framework of unequal globalisation.
The joint resolution defends the theory, which is contradicted by the facts, that the process of opening up market services is beneficial to everyone and states in recitals A and C that its objective is to convince poor nations that the success of the WTO is essential for the economy of every country, rich or poor.
Instead of calling for the suspension of the round that began in Doha and a moratorium on GATS negotiations - conservative measures without which it would be impossible to exercise democracy - it advocates greater liberalisation in a number of sectors, including telecommunications and maritime transport (Articles 3 and 8).
It has also been said that no liberalisation offer has been made by Europe in the fields of health, education or audio-visual media.
The explanation that Commissioner Lamy gave on Monday 10 March at the beginning of the debate on the commitment of the EU to the GATS negotiations sounded reassuring.
The EU is said to want to give companies from its own Member States access to activities such as water distribution and possibly even water collection that within the EU are still predominantly in the hands of publicly owned enterprises.
For me this is a reason for putting supplementary questions to the European Commission shortly.
Mr President, it was a matter of huge satisfaction, I am sure to yourself as well as to myself, that the resolution on the crisis in the fishing sector was carried by such a vast majority as 508 to 7, with 27 abstentions.
The Commission's proposal on cod is based, as ever, on the most recent opinions of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, which is made up of several partners outside Europe and which has taken up many controversial positions in the past.
I voted for it, naturally, but I should still like to make a point.
However, there is no reason to welcome the figure of 13 million unemployed that the text gives, which is certainly underestimated and which, moreover, fails to take into account those who have to settle for precarious and badly paid employment.
In these circumstances, talking about employment strategy, to quote the title of the report, might appear quite unsavoury to the millions of employees who are being thrown into poverty purely so that the companies making them redundant can give their shareholders higher dividends by paying fewer salaries.
Those amendments, which have been reinserted for the plenary sitting, entirely undermine the work done by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to restore balance to the rapporteur's text in favour of an employment policy that it not only concerned with increased flexibility and reducing tax pressure, but also and above all with establishing quality employment for all as quickly as possible: training and education must therefore be the pivots of our policy, and second-rate jobs and other unqualified jobs must disappear.
The report thus amended ignores the principles of solidarity and social cohesion, which are essential and objective principles to achieve for anyone seriously seeking to establish a new employment strategy, a generous strategy that places the person at the centre of all its concerns.
I can therefore only oppose the report amended in this way, as it adopts neo-liberal principles in advocating an employment policy that ignores the person. . (FR) Paragraph 23 makes a useful reference to the European social model.
Giving employees the possibility of having a share in business assets is a path that we must take and that should bring about fresh proposals from the Commission to take effect in particular in the Member States, by using the system of tax exemptions.
In this context, the use of tax exemptions in high-employability sectors (public works, services, hotel and catering trade, etc.) should be integrated into the European social model. . (PT) We welcome the fact that the report, with the proposals for amendments appended to it by the PPE-DE and Liberal Groups, has been rejected.
We contributed to its rejection by voting against not only the most negative amendments but also against the final resolution.
We thereby prevented the adoption specifically of the proposals that insisted on: greater flexibility in current legislation in the labour field, which would lead to those seeking employment being offered various types of employment contracts and working time regulations; criticising the fact that the provisions relating to the internal market have not been fully transposed in all Member States, which explains why there is a lack of adequate competition.
Our vote is in line with the need for those running SMEs not to endure unnecessary tax burdens or inappropriate regulation.
I fully support the report in saying that the innovation and information society will play a key role in making the EU competitive and more research should be channelled into these areas.
Efforts are being made to resolve the problem of unemployment by stepping up the neo-liberal monetarist policies and persisting with the financial prudence which were responsible for the current recession and high unemployment in the first place.
We are opposed to EU policies in keeping with the Stability Pact and the Lisbon process because they do not meet the needs of workers, farmers and small and medium-sized businesses, they are designed to undermine workers' rights and they dance to the tune called by big business. . (PT) Unfortunately, this report has not been approved.
I myself felt obliged to abstain from the final vote, because I felt that it went too far on fiscal policy, running the risk of placing harmonization in conflict with the autonomy of the Member States.
I fully support the emphasis he gives to family protection, to set as guidelines for employment compatibility between work and family, pursuing a policy that is more favourable to children and families, or to make work more attractive to older people.
I would also reiterate my position on the greater speed with which initiatives must be implemented in the fields of vocational training, lifelong learning, and in Community incentives in the field of research, where success stories in the various Member States should be more widely shared.
Following the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit, we have always stressed the need for a balance between quality and quantity.
Parliament has a real duty to guard against these things.
We now need a real battle against poverty and in favour of employment.
We will not sacrifice all our social heritage which has been acquired at such a high price. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure). . (PT) Given the current situation of employment, caused in particular by the relocation of undertakings whose priority is profit, without any consideration for the importance of the 'function of work' to social development, to the mental wellbeing of workers and their extended families, the European Parliament as the institution representing the people of Europe, absolutely must adopt a strong stance on a global strategy to promote employment and its corresponding social policy in the European Union.
We are in favour of a European social policy that runs through all other development and growth policies pursued by the Union.
Mr President, even in the broad economic policy guidelines, which talk especially of balancing the budgets of the individual countries of the European Union, there is no mention - and although I voted for the report I am concerned about this - of what should be done to remedy a country's budget whenever a budget is said to be weighed down, scuttled or ruined by the large number of pensioners whose pensions are paid out of the country's budget.
I ask you, then, Mr President, although I am specifically addressing the Heads of Government and the Council: do we want first to set how much pension we should pay citizens and then spend what we have left, or do we want first to spend the whole State budget and then, if we have anything left - I repeat, if we have anything left - throw the scraps to the pensioners? . (FR) While stressing the importance of respecting the provisions of the Stability Pact and stepping up the reforms adopted in Lisbon, the García-Margallo report remains deaf to the criticisms and strong disagreements that are being heard increasingly loudly from public opinion.
Instead of this, I would have liked the EU to aim for a genuine pact for employment and growth, based on satisfying the needs of the people, increasing salaries, a real policy to create jobs and wealth.
We do not call the budgetary policy contained in the Stability Pact 'rigid', even though this determines levels of public investment, including the application of the structural funds, and endangers crucial public services and areas that are vital to innovation and productivity, such as investment in education, health and research and development.
The report insists on greater flexibility in pay and in the labour market, which contributes to pay disputes and to job instability.
Hence our vote against the report.
While greater economic convergence between the economic powers of the Member States is clearly desirable, in order to be viable it must operate with respect for their authority and by doing so be a natural result of free economic competition between the Member States, not of technocratic decisions that ignore national realities. . (PT) I acknowledge the importance and the timeliness of this own-initiative report by the Committee of Economic and Monetary Affairs, both because of the troubled current geopolitical context (which requires a clarification of objectives and of the direction to take), and because of the debate that needs to be launched on vital issues such as the low levels of public and private investment, low productivity growth, the trend of falling rates of employment and the ageing of the population.
Furthermore, it is important, in this context, that we all give due consideration to the impact of issues such as the excessive indebtedness of individuals and undertakings, our over-dependency in energy and the impact of China and India's entry into the world of industrial production.
Although the report does not refer to these aspects, they are nonetheless medium and long-term concerns, for which Europe's citizens are calling for 'bold measures from the EU's decision-makers'.
The Trentin report welcomes the extremely satisfactory implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact, which was, nevertheless, criticised not long ago as being somewhat stupid by the President of the Commission, Romano Prodi.
Like the García-Margallo and dos Santos reports, on which we are also voting, the Trentin report promotes intelligent application of the Pact and the adjustments that this involves.
Faced with the rise in unemployment, the alternative is to simply abandon the Stability Pact for a policy focused on job creation through a major change in the way profits are distributed.
This is why the rapporteur, rather than analysing the current economic situation, insists on placing more emphasis on the strictness of the Stability Pact, particularly by increasing the Commission's autonomy in monitoring the Member States.
We therefore need to consider a way of making the SGP more flexible by introducing more sophisticated criteria.
Only this framework of effective responsibility can make an objective contribution to our being able to make solid progress towards achieving the most dynamic economic area in the world, based on knowledge and able to guarantee sustainable growth with more ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) Following up the observation that 'two years of disappointing economic performance have triggered a slack in the proactive policies pursued in reacting to the threat of recession and the upsurge in unemployment', it is actually important to look at the mechanisms available to us in order to respond effectively to the requirements arising, as a matter of fact, from the commitments that have been given, in particular under the Lisbon Strategy.
I also think that we must take the opportunity to include amongst the criteria and objectives approved in the Stability and Growth Pact certain indicators facilitating the more flexible governance of this Pact, adapting it to the various specific national situations and at the same time upholding the objectives of reducing the budgetary deficit and public debt.
Achieving these objectives, and I am also referring here to the dos Santos report, is of enormous importance, because these establish a new degree of responsibility, which is an extremely important message to send to economic operators.
I have consequently voted in favour of this report.
I voted against the report when item 15 was voted down by the political Left (with 266 votes in favour of doing so and 237 votes against).
Item 15 'calls for the Stability and Growth Pact to be scrupulously adhered to, and for all attempts to soften the Pact, thereby jeopardising the long-term stability of the European currency, to be resisted'.
The removal of item 15 opens the way for European finance ministers to increase public expenditure in times of recession and in situations in which there are budget deficits.
There is a danger of this leading to increased inflation, a loss of confidence and a less stable EU currency.
I voted against the entire report - which was nonetheless adopted on the basis of 359 votes in favour, 79 against and 50 abstentions - because it would entail a relaxation of the Stability and Growth Pact and undermine the Swedish constitution.
It is worth noting that this item was adopted on the basis of 486 votes in favour, 3 against and 8 abstentions.
I voted in favour of removing item 4, that is to say against the Stability and Growth Pact's being implemented in 'a more flexible way'.
In practice, this item would entail a relaxation of the objective criteria in favour of vaguer, politically negotiable criteria.
Unfortunately, this item remained in place.
The euro requires clear and stable rules.
I voted against item 10 to the effect that EC law takes precedence over Swedish law, even before Swedish legislation has been amended.
The purpose of this item is to make it possible to introduce the euro as a currency without Swedish legislation's having been amended, that is to say before the elections to the Swedish Parliament in 2006.
Mr President, we are talking about the finances of the countries that have adopted the euro.
It would be good if the governments of the countries that have adopted the euro took care - something they have not done so far - that unscrupulous traders, profiteers who only think of themselves, do not raise the prices of consumer products that are bought by citizens, workers and pensioners, that is, people on fixed incomes.
Indeed, taking advantage of the fact that in the changeover from the national currency to the European currency, the euro, people are not yet used to the value of the new money, as is certainly the case in Italy and I believe also in other countries in the European Union, there has been a disproportionate rise in the cost of products that are mainly bought by the least well-off, especially pensioners and citizens with what is, I regret to say, a modest income.
The majority in Parliament are free to desire 'an intelligent and flexible application of the Pact in the manner proposed by the Commission', or to support it when it arbitrarily initiates accusatory proceedings against Member States that cannot conform to a zealous interpretation of the provisions of the Stability Pact, but personally, I cannot go down that road.
Although I think that the intended adjustments made by the Commission, which recognise that the budgetary deficit has both a structural component and a component linked to the economic cycle, are indeed well founded in that they strengthen the growth element without endangering the stability element, I cannot, however, forget that this spectacular u-turn is part of a more general strategy aimed at making the Commission the economic government of the Union.
Mr President, page 17 of the Minutes details what was said and done in yesterday's Question Time, which was announced on the screens only after it had begun three-quarters of an hour late.
As President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to point out that the operation we are discussing in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia highlights our role in and our commitment to this region, our commitment to helping this region move towards Europe and, above all, our commitment to stability and peace in the region.
Secondly, this operation will help enhance the role and profile of the European Union in this country.
Thirdly, it will be the first practical test of the European military crisis management mechanism and the second step, following the policing mission in Bosnia, in putting the European Union's operational capability into practice.
Fourthly, this is the first practical application of cooperation between the European Union and NATO in the crisis management sector and implementation of the related permanent arrangements, which we expect to be completed very quickly.
First, permanent arrangements between the European Union and NATO must be completed and concluded and, secondly, a request must be submitted by the official authorities in the country in question.
As far as the second precondition is concerned, we already have an official request from the government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia asking the European Union to take over this mission and all the parties involved have welcomed the initiative in question.
The Greek Presidency has included the takeover of this mission in its basic priorities in the ESDP area and is therefore making every effort along these lines.
On the contrary, we shall continue to work in close cooperation and we need to make it clear to all sides that this cooperation is continuing and that we shall be working together for the stability and security of the region.
We shall, of course, need to take over within the specific permanent arrangements agreed, in order to safeguard the autonomy of both organisations.
The Council adopted the general idea of the operation on 23 January and the related joint action on 27 January.
The institutional framework for the operation and, more importantly, the funding arrangements, are in place.
The Political and Security Committee decided which third countries would be invited to participate on 4 February.
On 7 February, the Deputy Supreme Allied Commander for Europe was appointed as operation commander.
The operation commander has submitted a draft operational plan, including the rules of engagement administration and control structure and a statement of resource requirements, to the Military Committee.
On 18 February, the Political and Security Committee therefore decided to set up a Contributions Committee.
Finally, the conference to set up the force was held on 20 February and the conference to appoint the force staff was held on 25 February.
The force numbers 487 men, including 212 staff positions.
The structure and control of the operation are vital to the command of the operation.
The Deputy Supreme Allied Commander for Europe, Admiral Feist, who will head the European operation in the FYROM, recently reported on this in detail to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
As I said, France has been elected as the framework nation for the operation and will have the lead role in directing the operation.
Mr President, I wish to begin by associating myself wholeheartedly with all that the Foreign Minister has just said about the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic.
I should like to extend my sympathy and, I am sure, the sympathy of the House to his family and friends and to all democrats in Serbia.
The first European Union military operation is, as the Foreign Minister has said, about to start operations in the Balkans.
The decision taken by the Council in January to embark on a joint action opened a new chapter in the history of our integration, and it is not surprising that this chapter will have its first lines written in the Balkans.
All of us remember the tragic events which took place in south-east Europe at the beginning of the nineties.
Faced with a situation no one would have thought possible in our continent, the European Union had to develop new tools to strengthen its capacity to prevent and, if necessary, deal with any similar crises which could potentially endanger our security and which certainly offend our deepest values.
It is therefore not by chance that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is to be the setting for this new step forward by the European Union.
The context of this operation is no longer the imperative to put an end to the civil conflict and to separate the fighters.
It is rather the continuation of the build-up of a closer relationship between the Union and a country which is moving towards the European Union and which needs our support to consolidate the stability without which it will not be able to progress along this path.
I would like here to remind the House that only two years ago the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was on the edge of a civil conflict, but thankfully turned its back on war when an agreement was reached between the conflicting parties.
A substantial and sustained commitment by the European Union - political as well as financial - supported the process.
More than EUR 30 million was allocated in 2001 through the CARDS programme and the Rapid Reaction Mechanism, while nearly EUR 7 million was delivered in humanitarian assistance.
These efforts have been paying off.
Last week's incident, which tragically cost the lives of two Polish NATO officers, has been a further illustration that a continued international security presence is needed for the coming months in order to consolidate peace and security in the country and to underpin the implementation of the Lake Ohrid Agreement.
Here I would like to address some of the concerns which may have emerged regarding the scope and the objective of the European Union military mission.
Even if the European Union operation will only be of limited size, let me state clearly that I do not consider that this has ever been a useful criterion against which to evaluate its worth.
It will be a visible sign of our commitment to safeguarding stability in this country.
Our objectives are clear.
As rightly pointed out in the motion for a resolution, the planned European Union takeover of the NATO military mission will be a further demonstration of the European Union's commitment to peace and stability in the country and in the region.
It is fully consistent with our policy to contribute to the long-term security of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
This encompasses two crucial elements in particular.
The process of improving border security and management has a strong component of regional cooperation, and so the European Union is currently working closely with NATO and the OSCE to support the efforts which the countries in the region have started to make themselves.
In the view of the Commission, the European Union operation in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia will contribute to consolidating a stable environment conducive to the implementation of reforms that will facilitate its future integration with the European Union.
In this perspective, I have no doubt that a limited and focused EU military intervention can only reinforce progress towards full civilian and democratic control of the reforms under way.
This morning, we spent some time dwelling on an area of foreign and security policy where - I shall be diplomatic - we have not made as much progress as we would have liked.
However, we have to recognise that in some parts of the world - most notably in the Balkans - Europe has in the last few years got its act together.
You only have to compare the humiliations and bloody mayhem of the early 1990s, when Europe was unable to deal with awful problems on its own doorstep, with our success in the last few years in shaping policy and in helping to lead the countries of the Balkans towards the European family.
As I have said in this House before, it would be a terrible mistake if we were to think that the problems in the Balkans, or in Afghanistan for that matter, were done and dusted.
We still have to focus, concentrate and be generous with our time, assistance and experience in helping those countries down the road towards eventual membership of the European Union.
Our taking over, for the first time, a military operation in that region in the name of the European Union - small though the operation may be - shows that the European Union is going down a new path and indicates how our capacity to act will develop in this, admittedly small, area.
The members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy are, however, keen to see this debate on plenary's agenda, because we take the view that it is not acceptable for the European Union to decide on a military operation in the name of the European Union without formal consultation with the European Parliament, which is the directly-elected forum for Europe's peoples.
As you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy have received information, but it has been received through invitations we have extended and requests we have made.
Even though the operation in Macedonia involves only a small contingent of some 300 troops, it is the very first military operation in the history of the European Union, and it marks an important precedent.
Military operations by the European Union, such as are currently planned for the Balkans, differ in one very important respect from missions undertaken by NATO.
Petersberg missions by the European Union will always be mounted in tandem with the EU's involvement in the region affected by a crisis, whether such involvement be political and diplomatic, or economic and financial.
Cooperation between civilians and the armed forces under the flag of the European Union will always be an important dimension of the overall mission.
In saying this, it is not my intention to criticise what you have said today, but to take a critical view of the procedure, of the time, and of the place.
In the future, EU missions will always have the marked character of being both civil and military, and they will operate in crisis-hit regions in which the European Union has already made political or humanitarian commitments, or in which, once a crisis operation is over, it will be involving itself in reconstruction and development.
It is for that reason that the Committee on Foreign Affairs' resolution proposes that we should, in the coming months, send a fact-finding delegation to the theatre of operations, in order to enable us MEPs to get our own picture of how the European Union's first military mission works.
While the Iraq issue is putting the European Union under great pressure and the discord appears great, the European Union will shortly be beginning its first military operation under its own flag in FYROM.
That this is happening in Macedonia is logical because of the great political efforts of the European Union in recent times, which have led to better relations within the country itself, in particular with the Albanian minority, and which have therefore also led to greater political stability.
It was therefore a question of finding the right formula with regard to the independent nature of the operation.
The step that is now being taken is in itself important for the country in question, but as has already been said, it is also a first exercise for the European Union and the lessons from it will be learned.
In this case it is a matter in particular of practical cooperation with NATO, but also of a future larger-scale operation, in Bosnia-Herzegovina for example.
It is after all an important step in the development of a common security policy about which the public should be better informed, by such means as, for instance, the work of this Parliament of ours.
I hope that a successful mission will also provide a stimulus to maintaining the necessary tempo in setting up the rapid reaction force and in the development and implementation of a more coordinated arms procurement policy.
Mr President, progress towards stability in Macedonia is a real example of how cooperation between NATO, the EU and the US can have very beneficial effects.
I also congratulate the coalition government in place since last September.
Let us hope that Macedonia has indeed turned a corner and that the Ohrid Agreement will be fully implemented.
Mr Brok is quite right to insist that it should not happen without consultation with the European Parliament.
Mr President, in the shadow of the debate about a looming war in Iraq and in the light of the growing scepticism about the prospect of any kind of common European foreign policy at all, there is a danger that many people are going to lose sight of what the European Union has actually managed to achieve in Macedonia.
In the whole debate about the possibility and desirability of a European foreign policy the mission in Macedonia is often dismissed as insignificant, a mission that means nothing and from which we must not draw undue conclusions.
I think that the Macedonian model, where the European Union has been able to deploy all its diplomatic, financial and military capabilities, can be an example worthy of imitation in many countries of the world.
All of us present here know that it is impossible either for national parliaments or for this Parliament to influence the mandate and the progress of this mission, or of future missions.
This murder clearly shows that the problems there are still far from being resolved and also makes clear that the efforts of the European Union are still needed on Serbia's tortuous, oh so tortuous, path to democracy.
I therefore fervently hope that the Commissioner will be able to go to Serbia to put to the Serbian Parliament his message of solidarity with the democratic forces in Serbia.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, this operation in Macedonia has just been presented as an historic phase in the commitment of the European Union.
It is a mission involving, if we have rightly understood, 500 men, including those in command.
and to take this opportunity to say that events such as these always forcefully bring us back to the question of whether the establishment of peace in this region really has advanced as far as we hoped it had.
If European defence policy is to develop further, mandates will in future have to be given by the European Parliament, and so, our primary expectation of the Council is that it should do what has already been demanded of it and, this very day, meet this need by providing truly comprehensive information and, secondly, we expect the Convention to give parliamentary control a clear, unambiguous and permanent place in the future constitutional treaty.
This consideration leads me to put a number of questions to the Council, and also to the Commission.
It is my view that both the Convention and the new constitutional treaty will, in future, have to make it possible for the military costs of the mission, as well as the civilian ones, to be borne by the Budget of the European Union.
Despite all the criticisms that could be levelled at him - as they can at any statesman - he was a symbol of economic progress, political reform and also of cooperation with the tribunal in The Hague.
He took significant steps to bring Serbia closer to Western fundamental values, not only in terms of its political system, but also of its society.
Whilst there are a number of things of which we are right to accuse America - some other charges laid against them may be misguided, but many are justified - we must ourselves take on responsibilities in our own backyard.
Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, you are aware of that.
Let me just list the ways in which the European Union is currently represented in Macedonia, which is a small country: it is represented by the Presidency, by a representative of the Commission, by a High Representative, by the Agency for Reconstruction, and now also by a military unit.
If these all work well together, then that is a good thing, but I really do ask that you should consider how we might tighten up our instruments somewhat in order, instead of giving a small country the impression that we do not ourselves know where we are going, to be able to get our foreign policy accepted by using one shared European language and shared European resources.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, no European security and defence policy existed until 1999, when it was one of the fruits of the lessons we learned in the Balkans.
It will, during this stage, be increasingly important to have due regard to the European Union's institutions and to remain within the bounds of its institutional structures.
To this day, the Council has not once complied with that requirement, but this is to be done in future, with a summary being presented, in its own dossier, to Parliament by 15 June.
I see this as an important decision and as complementing that on the political principle of involving Parliament.
This example shows how we are already involved in this area.
Mr President, Commissioner, the first military mission of the European Union coincides with an historic moment and, I regret to say, possible further destabilisation in the Balkans, which shows just how fragile the fabric is.
The Serbian leaders have recently been surrounding themselves with high-level security, in the knowledge that the greatest danger is just when steps towards normalisation start speeding up.
I think the two-month period requested for the European Community for initial monitoring of the results of the mission is too short.
I should like to know, for instance, how the command structures work, from the base up to Brussels, the relations between departments in NATO and in the European Union, how costs are shared and, naturally, to what extent collaboration with the Macedonian Government and army has been thought out and put into practice.
Military expenditure is the responsibility of the national parliaments, but the European Union should manage the financial operations on joint bases and Parliament should then perform its monitoring role.
One of its key aims is to remove American involvement in European security.
By the way, for Mr Gollnisch's information, there are only 30 American personnel in the Macedonian force, and none of them are combat troops.
But the tragic events of today underline how very combustible the situation in the Balkans remains.
Having created an unnecessary and artificial military divide, the EU and NATO have had to spend two years on negotiating and arrangements to enable the European Union and NATO to find a way of working together.
The fact is that the EU's Ruritanian takeover of the NATO operation in FYROM will not contribute any additional military assets.
We need to bring Europe's military contribution back into the NATO fold and start rebuilding the common western strategic culture before it is too late.
We believe in the important role of the European Parliament and in transparent, informative relations.
There are no differences between us, between the Member States or the other basic institutions of the European Union, as regards the strategy or, I think, the application of that strategy.
I think this shows that our common foreign policy has come of age, in this region at least, and will be important as we develop it further.
The issue of organised crime, to which Baroness Ludford referred, cooperation with the ?C??, the rule of law, corruption, regional cooperation, the necessary networks, transport, energy, IT; all these are vital to the stability and development of the region and to the region's common progress towards the European Union.
However, what I would say is that this name is the product of compromise and negotiation within the UN and the UN has adopted this as the official name of this country and international organisations have adopted this as a temporary name.
We invest more than anyone else in FYROM and we have consistently supported its territorial integrity, prosperity and progress towards Europe during every difficult stage it has been through over recent months and years.
This proves there is a need for multilateral cooperation, for close cooperation in dealing with crisis at international level.
As regards the military operation and any dangers inherent in it, naturally unavoidable dangers are inherent in any military operation.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I repeat what I said at the outset of the previous debate, and offer my apologies to Parliament that I will have to leave early, though my distinguished colleague will be here until the end of the debate.
The basic aim is to prevent terrorist acts by detecting potential perpetrators before they enter the country.
In this context, the United States Congress has required that carriers make passenger name record information available to US Customs upon request.
The Commission shares the security concerns of the United States.
Nevertheless, the United States measures have raised concern with regard to the respect of Community and Member States' laws on data protection.
Passengers - between 10 and 11 million a year - would have also suffered from the disrupted air traffic and from the time-consuming 'secondary' checks that the United States planned to introduce at point of entry.
We had to ensure, as far as we could, that the important interests of European Union citizens in preserving their right to privacy was balanced against the need to protect many thousands of jobs in our airlines and associated industries like travel agencies.
I want to assure this House that, right from the outset, the European Commission has done its utmost to try to engage the United States in a discussion on how to find a solution compatible with both sets of legislation and one that would ensure legal certainty for all concerned.
The European Commission has assumed its responsibilities and in recent weeks undertook difficult discussions to overcome a stalemate created by the United States initially taking our concerns lightly and not responding to our questions.
In fact, the European Commission had raised this issue with the United States on numerous occasions, with particular emphasis since the US Customs Service issued its interim rule of 19 June 2002, containing the concrete implementation methods.
Further talks took place on 4 March, as a result of which the United States has given additional undertakings with respect to the handling and protection of sensitive data.
I am also aware that questions have been raised as to the legal basis for the action undertaken so far by the Commission.
Both sides are now committed to continuing their discussions in order to find a more legally secure solution.
The possibility of such discussions is provided for in the Data Protection Directive, as the initial and necessary steps towards the adequacy finding provided for in its Article 25(6).
Following comitology procedures, the draft Commission decision will then have to be discussed by this House before being finalised.
In the interim, we have obtained from the United States a provisional set of undertakings on how they will protect the personal data they access and a specific commitment not to make use of any sensitive data for profiling purposes.
The whole House recognises how the events of 11 September produced a real feeling of vulnerability and shock in the United States.
The House will recognise the concern in the United States to put in place measures to ensure that further terrorist attacks are less, rather than more, likely in the future.
That said, I hope that we can engage the United States at a much earlier stage in the policy-making process in discussing these security issues.
If we can have a dialogue earlier in the process, it will be easier to avoid the sort of political difficulties that we have had from time to time over the last year.
There should be no difference between us at all on the importance of putting in place security measures which are recognised as being reasonable by both sides.
The new American law requiring airlines operating flights to, from or through the United States to grant electronic access to their passenger name records raises a number of policy issues: firstly, the fight against terrorism; secondly, the right to privacy; thirdly, the ability of our airlines to compete; fourthly, the security and convenience of legitimate air travellers; fifthly, the relationship between Europe and the United States in general.
It is necessary to pull all these strands together and to strike an appropriate balance.
My first message is that we should work together for an outcome that achieves the best possible results, responding to the need to combat terrorism while respecting data protection in practice, without damaging the commercial interests of our airlines and without inconvenience for legitimate air travellers.
The Commission very much welcomes the opportunity to address Parliament on this matter.
Underlying the technical issues are some fundamental questions about security and civil liberties which all democracies have to ask themselves.
The first document is the joint statement which is the agreed account of the outcome of talks between senior officials of the Commission and US Customs on 17 and 18 February 2003.
The second document is the statement by US Customs of 4 March which gives undertakings as regards the handling of sensitive data.
There have been discussions and the US side has given certain assurances.
Both sides are committed to finding a more legally secure solution in due course.
Because of information received about new US requirements, the Commission found it necessary last November to inform EU airlines and the related reservation systems that it was not clear whether they could provide the information required by US law without being in breach of their data protection obligations under EU law.
In order to answer that question, it was necessary to obtain information from the US side, in particular as regards the use of the data and the conditions under which they would be processed.
Unfortunately the American side was very slow to respond to these requests for information and they only started to take our concerns seriously in December 2002.
The second reason is that the United States made a number of significant, unilateral undertakings of immediate application.
Firstly, the airlines have to meet their obligations as data controllers and they must inform passengers fully, in line with Article 10 of the Directive, and obtain their consent for the processing of sensitive data in line with Article 8.
Article 25(6) of the Directive, on the other hand, provides for a finding by the Commission that a third country ensures adequate protection for transfers of personal data from the European Union.
The prospect of such a decision and the legal security that it brings allow the Commission to engage the third country concerned in discussions about the protection provided, and hold it to ensuring a high standard.
It is worth mentioning that one or two Member States have or are planning measures very similar to those in place in the United States.
That I think is a major step forward.
The fact remains, however, that the debate we are now holding should have taken place long before 5 March, the date of the entry into force of the measures adopted by the United States making airlines that schedule flights from the European Union to that country fulfil the obligations imposed by US legislation to transfer passengers' personal data to the immigration services, as has been said, with these airlines facing stiff financial penalties if they fail to comply.
I therefore wish, Commissioner, first of all to convey to you this Parliament's unease at your belated - from my committee's point of view - reaction to this issue, which also leads us to doubt the legality of the actions referred to in the joint statement issued by senior officials of the European Union and the United States Customs Service on 17 and 18 February.
This statement, Mr President, Commissioners, even provides for - and I find this most surprising - an exception to be made to the application of our legislation in light of the United States' wishes.
We will, therefore, have to find a quick way out of this situation of uncertainty, by defining a clear framework for action and by reconciling the legitimate demands of the United States with respect for European legislation.
The ideal situation would be for the US authorities to be able swiftly to define their data protection standards, the adoption of which is already provided for in US legislation, and for the Commission to be able then to state that the necessary data can be transferred under the conditions laid down by Community legislation.
I therefore call on the Commissioners responsible to make up for lost time and I rely - also on behalf of the committee which I have the honour to chair - on the Commission's willingness to study with all due attention and urgency the texts that have been submitted to us on the basis of Directive 95/46/EC.
That directive stipulates that the Commission, through a specified procedure that it lays down, must ascertain whether the third country offers adequate protection for data transferred to it regarding our citizens and, if not, that it must open negotiations, find solutions and submit its assessment to the scrutiny of the European Parliament.
In the case we have here, the transfer of passengers' personal data by airlines that fly to the United States, as required by the US authorities on the basis of laws passed in 2001 and 2002, presents serious problems of compatibility with European legislation, particularly as regards the possibility of direct access by the US customs to our airlines' reservation systems and passenger name records.
Amongst other things, I must point out that the data to be acquired - through that direct access - could also contain information of a financial nature or of a medical, religious or ethnic nature which might also refer to persons other than passengers bound for the territory of the United States, that the data might be transferred to other bodies without the consent or control of those it refers to, and that US law only protects US citizens.
In this situation, the Commission failed to inform Parliament - as it has admitted - it failed to inform the European citizens prior to the date, 5 March, when the demands on the airlines enter into force, and it did not fulfil its obligation to check whether suitable protection exists in due time but has relied on statements by officials and press releases to convey the promise and reassurance of future interventions.
The airlines and national authorities that safeguard personal data are placed in a situation of legal uncertainty, exposed to prosecution for breaking national laws and to the risk of serious financial damage.
The Commissioners who have competence in this area must accept their responsibilities straight away and obtain a temporary suspension of the effects of the laws in question; they must request formal and verifiable guarantees, obtain the opinions provided for by the directives and submit a decision to the European Parliament under Article 25 of the directive.
Otherwise, I believe the European Parliament will have to consider appealing to the Court of Justice to ensure protection for the citizens of Europe.
However, the Commission made the wrong call, not least in consulting neither the European Parliament nor, previously, the National Data Protection Commissioners' Article 29 Working Party.
However, it does not deliver legal certainty and the Chairman of the Article 29 Working Party has contested the assertion by the Commission that EU data protection authorities may not find it necessary to take enforcement actions - that is for breaches of the Data Protection Directive - against airlines complying with the US requirements.
This is a stunning rebuff to the Commission.
The political groups are in wide agreement on this matter.
The only point of contention is the amendment calling for the Commission to secure suspension of the US demands until there is a decision on compatibility with the Data Protection Directive, which means an Article 25(6) decision.
The text of the statement makes it quite clear that the Data Protection Directive applies, because it states that US customs will access the data in the territory of the Community.
We need an Article 25(6) decision after consultation of this House.
Mr President, I wish to tell the House that, 10 days ago, Professor Venios Angelopoulos of the Athens Polytechnic travelled to JFK airport in the United States and disappeared.
There was an outcry in Greece about the how, why and wherefore until the citizens of the European Union, the Member States of the European Union and parliamentarians gradually found out that the European Commission and the United States had already come to an agreement on the transfer of personal data on people travelling to the United States.
I think we should apply Rule 91 of the Rules of Procedure, as we have had no response from the Commission, and institute proceedings before the Court of Justice.
I can tell the Commission now that as far as I am concerned blackmail by a third country or long waiting times for air travel do not count as important issues.
Privacy is not an obstacle, but an essential part of security.
Dealing carelessly with the privacy of our citizens jeopardises the basic trust of the people in their government and in the constitutional state and then we are worse off.
European rules apply here on the European continent and if we are going to make agreements about changing these rules, then the partner with whom we are making these agreements must also respect our rules, our basic principles.
This is how it works in a partnership between well-meaning countries.
The problem is that it seems to us at least possible that that act, those joint statements - first the February ones and then the March ones - give rise to legal effects, actions, exchanges of data and information that have taken place because of those meetings and those statements.
The joint statement issued by the two parties in February already mentions the fact that the most sensitive data should be - and are - processed in accordance with European Union legislation.
The same is true of Paragraph 4 of the Commission recommendation to the national data protection authorities, according to which it is not necessary to take enforcement measures against airlines that are not complying with the United States' requests.
This is another recommendation that has legislative force and effect: the Commission is saying 'Do not intervene!' regarding those airlines that are transferring data in compliance with US legislation.
I therefore believe that there is at least the possibility and the suspicion that this act should be considered a legislative act, against which Parliament can appeal to the Court of Justice.
I also believe this procedure might help the Commission and the European Union themselves to strengthen their own position in a dialogue that should be conducted on equal terms, between parties of equal rank, between a market of 250 million people and a market of 350 million people, because we have to consider very seriously the fact that, right now, collecting these data and transferring them to the United States cannot be in compliance with Community law.
What is needed, then, is to open formal, official negotiations to see what agreement, what compromise can be found, but it is not possible to resolve the issue pre-emptively by thus attributing de facto legitimacy to a transfer of data that has already begun.
Sensitive personal data on citizens of the European Union can be transferred to the authorities in the United States, with no guarantees whatsoever, and our citizens are clearly concerned about this.
At the same time, the United States have taken a threatening stand.
Its intention was to take certain steps in order to deal with a difficult situation it was facing.
In all events, what I want to see is this problem resolved as quickly as possible in a way that is, first, legally correct and, secondly, legally secure with respect to the rights of the citizens of the European Union.
I think that this approach, Mr President, is far preferable to the immediate suspension of the interim agreement between the Commission and the American authorities that several political groups have called for in their proposed amendment.
Mr President, Commissioners, this Parliament has reacted after the attention of President Prodi, President Simitis and Mr Hernández Mollar was drawn to the matter by a source as authoritative as the chairman of the Article 29 committee.
I must say that, now that these misunderstandings have been cleared up, I am even more concerned.
Protection of personal data is a fundamental right under Article 7 of the EU's Charter of Fundamental Rights.
It is probably also going to form part of our European constitution.
All this is also laid down in our directives and in particular Directive 95/46/EEC.
But as far as I have read these exceptions, I have to say that the transfer of data to the US is systematic and does not fall under the exception of Article 13 of that directive.
In addition, Directive 95/46/EEC says in general that the transfer of personal data to a third country may only take place if that third country offers an adequate level of protection.
I have listened carefully to the Commissioner, who has said that he has done his best to find a balance between maintaining privacy and protecting the airlines.
At the moment my position is that the measures in their present form must be suspended.
The demands put forward by the American Government are clearly inconsistent with the legal requirements derived from current legislation, first and foremost Directive 95/46/EC on the principles of data protection.
There are, however, a number of legal principles involved here that we cannot dispense with, and the Commission's efforts to uphold these legal principles are pitiful.
What is described in the paper from the Article 29 Group is certainly alarming.
The question, raised by the Commissioner, was as to whether this matter could be sorted out using a comitology procedure.
In my view, the matter necessarily revolves around an agreement pursuant to Article 24 - cf.
Mr President, Commissioner, there can be no denying that especially since the events of 11 September stronger measures have been needed to combat terrorism, but it should equally go without saying that any measures that we implement need to have a legal basis.
The US enacted this law without concluding the necessary bilateral or multilateral negotiations and without entering into an agreement with the Union.
The Commission is not, however, immune from criticism here, because it has been aware of this issue for 15 months and has had ample time to tackle this problem, to consult Parliament and to seek appropriate solutions.
We now find ourselves in the position of debating something that has been in force for some time now and which involves data on our citizens being transferred to the United States without our having any real guarantees about how this data is used in practice.
Something else I am critical of is the fact that the negotiations have not been held at political level but that officials have been given the remit of reaching agreement on this, and that this has then virtually been presented to us as the legal basis for all these processes, and the citizens of the European Union have been expected to put up with this.
We in the PPE-DE Group are also calling for the scope for an action in the European Court of Justice to be investigated, and we are demanding in particular, and with immediate effect, that anything that has been illegally enacted and is now in force should be rectified.
However, we also expect that cooperation with the United Nations in the fight against terror should continue, but on a proper legal footing.
We are therefore committed to cooperation with the United States, but let me make this clear once more - only if our rights are defended!
Mr President, Commissioner, I am pleased that we have witnesses here today to hear us - their visit to the European Parliament will have served a useful purpose.
And, Commissioner, it is the Commission's third-tier officials in particular who ought to be aware that they bear an enormous responsibility in Brussels, and that they also have to protect the interests of Europe's citizens.
Especially since 11 September we have been aware of the need for vigilance on our planet and the need to take appropriate measures at any given time.
It is our task as Members, as representatives of the people, to take our electors' and our citizens' interests seriously and to defend them.
We are talking about the interests of people who will soon find - without their knowing anything about it - that every detail of their lives has been handed over to the American security services, without ever having approved that and without knowing how this data will be used.
What I would now like to know is this: how will we be able to convince these citizens in the future if the American authorities, who are giving no guarantees at all, are in a position to use or abuse their data as they wish?
As you will have read over the last few days, even American Airlines may have to file for Chapter 11 protection.
I believe that in the present difficult situation faced by the airlines we cannot afford effectively to provoke an interruption of air traffic between the US and Europe.
Mr President, the fight against terrorism is necessary, but not all means are permitted.
After all, the European Commission has overstepped the mark in this dossier and that is especially disappointing of Commissioner Bolkestein, who this very week has very cheerfully announced his candidacy as member of the European Commission for a second term - remarkable.
In the first place it has failed to keep to its own plan to test its own action in advance against Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
If the Commission had demonstrated greater political courage and had brought in Parliament in good time, a decent debate could have taken place regarding the scope within the fight against terrorism and the limits of data transfer.
The Commission must therefore retrace its steps and take action to defer the agreement's entry into force.
If the agreements are properly tested against the European rules, a proper agreement can be concluded rather than this half-baked effort that jeopardises legal security.
As a matter of fact, I think that the Commission and the Council must take a careful look at whether this type of measure is entirely compatible with international agreements and conventions on air traffic and transport.
I hope that this matter will not be omitted from the next EU-US summit, due to take place on 25 June and that the European Union will adopt a forceful stance on this.
Mr President, we all reject and condemn terrorism and its criminal acts.
We support the US objective of preventing and combating terrorism and we roundly condemn the appalling acts of 11 September 2001.
Our respect for US law must be based on mutual respect for our own legal system.
Mr President, those sympathetic to the United States also have cause to criticise legislation that forces airlines to choose between the EU and the United States.
It is extremely unfortunate that there has been no political discussion of this issue, either with the United States or within the Commission, in spite of the fact that it has been known about for 15 months.
A form of technical data protection has, however, been established, which is obviously quite effective, and perhaps as effective as it can be.
There is a period of ten years in the case of ordinary citizens and of 50 years for those who are under suspicion.
Our points of view are oceans apart.
Global discussions are obviously required in this case, and not only with the United States.
It would probably be a good idea if the Commission were also to make use of Parliament, which can in actual fact contribute to this discussion.
The aim is to protect people.
This is also a good example of the discussion in the Convention and of the need for people to be able to demand political accountability.
In conclusion, I hope that my fellow MEPs will give very strong backing to this resolution so that our voice is heard in the Commission.
Finally, a message to the United States and the Commission: respecting someone means talking with them in time.
Mr President, Commissioner, in spite of everything, I am one of those who are still trying to understand the underlying reasons that have driven the United States to adopt this measure - we know what they are: 11 September, the climate of fear, the preparations for war and the latent threat of attack - but I am certainly also one of those who are prepared to declare openly that they can in no way accept that an ally government, notwithstanding all these reasons, should breach international agreements based above all, as in this case, on the EU Treaty.
We all know - we have already been reminded, but I shall repeat it to refresh our memories at the end of the debate - that the most serious and controversial point is that referred to in recital B of the resolution, which states that at first the United States had just asked for these data to be made available.
In Italy there is a proverb that says, 'It is fair enough to ask, but it is a courtesy to answer'; except that the United States did not have the courtesy to wait for our decision but went straight to the second stage of their action.
Really, this explanation seems rather childish, to say the least: justifications that are not acceptable in that there is a complete breach - as has also been mentioned already - of Article 8 of Directive 95/46/EC, and the Commission's role above all is to enforce the directives and hence Community law.
Another point of disagreement is this: as has been mentioned, the Commission knew a good 15 months ago that the United States was going to bring this measure into force on 5 March.
Well, the Commission's duty would have been promptly to inform the citizens of Europe and the European Parliament, which would automatically have acted as a sounding board.
The only point of contact is the well-known high-level agreement of 19 February, which, however, is not a written agreement and has no validity, certainly not enough for us to take to the Court of Justice.
In order to clarify this and other points, the European Parliament has now convened a public hearing and, perhaps, after this hearing we shall first of all know a little more about how it was possible for all this to have come about and, secondly, have a rather clearer idea especially about what it would be best to do now, while avoiding emotional schizophrenia and agreeing on joint, coherent standards to be enforced in future.
So far we have achieved two things: first, we secured American agreement on the further steps to be taken to reach a mutually satisfactory solution that can provide legal certainty to all concerned.
I should like to stress that this seems mutually satisfactory to the Commission, the European Parliament and the European side.
Our discussions so far have yielded this result.
That is a very important point which may have been overlooked in the heat of the debate.
The counterbalancing threat - namely that the Commission would start infringement proceedings, legal action for breaches of the data protection rules - was a serious concern for the airlines.
In this case that is the airlines and possibly travel agents.
On Friday 14 March there will be a meeting to ensure that they understand their obligations to inform passengers and aircraft crews about what will happen to their data and why.
A duty of information also lies with the American Government.
Baroness Ludford made a very pertinent point about the data systems that would be based in the European Union and the way in which the United States would access those data systems.
It concerns the direct application of the Directive to US Customs that give the European Directive a clear extraterritorial effect.
In any event this question only arises when US Customs have direct access to the airlines' databases.
Even our Directive says that certain efforts are not mandatory where they are disproportionate to the results they achieve for data protection.
If the Commission should come to the conclusion that there is adequacy in this area it will and it must inform Parliament and a proper discussion can then take place on the basis of this finding of the Commission.
After all, the staff - certainly in the case of the services that work under my supervision - are extremely able people.
After all it concerns millions of passengers per year and we cannot afford to put that in jeopardy.
My question to Council was tabled as No 3.
I have already received an answer from the Secretary-General, but it does not answer my question.
Mr President, I am one of a group of Members who have tabled questions to the Council.
I should like to point out to Mr Posselt that the Council has stated on numerous occasions that the basis for the future status of Kosovo is and remains UN Security Council Resolution 1244.
The final status of Kosovo is an issue which will need to be dealt with when the time is right and in accordance with the terms of Security Council Resolution 1244, with the involvement of the Belgrade government and the elected leaders and representatives of local political institutions in Pristina.
The European Union is determined to help Kosovo become a democratic, prosperous society, in which all communities learn to live together in peace and security.
Consequently, it is extremely important for the European Union to keep calling on the temporary local institutions in Kosovo to do everything they can to implement the specific evaluation criteria of the standards before status policy.
The first is to ask what you think of the idea of simply setting up a working group to consider the options for the future of Kosovo.
The second question is this: as far as I am aware, the preamble of the new constitution of Serbia and Montenegro includes a claim by Serbia that Kosovo should in future be a part of the Yugoslavian sub-state of Serbia.
I would like to ask whether the European Union or the United Nations have protested against this.
I ask because this would prejudice the chances of keeping open the future status of Kosovo.
So irrespective of what the constitution of Yugoslavia or the new state of Serbia-Montenegro says, there has been no discussion on final status and, when there is, it will be, as I said, on the basis of the UN resolution.
We all know which UN resolution I mean, so there is no need for me to refer to it at this point.
It is Security Council Resolution 1244.
I should just like to say that, during the earlier debate on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, I and the Commission, the Council and numerous members referred to Kosovo and the assassination of Mr.
I should like to point out, if I may, that if all sides act to establish these standards, trust between the various ethnic groups will improve, which is vital to a substantive debate about the future status of Kosovo.
In reply to Baroness Ludford, the Council has given its presidency detailed instructions to negotiate an agreement between the European Union and the United States on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters on the basis of Article 24 of the EU Treaty.
The provisions of this agreement are intended to supplement the provisions of the bilateral agreements signed by the US and the Member States of the European Union.
As soon as the Council reaches a decision on signing the agreement and, once it has been signed, the presidency will report to the European Parliament on the results of the negotiations.
I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for that reply, but is it not a fact that our trust in American civil liberties guarantees is being severely shaken and that it is a tragedy that in the United States, under the Bush administration, standards of fairness and due process are being sacrificed?
Just two days ago a federal appeals court rejected attempts to clarify the legal situation of some Guantanamo Bay detainees, including two Britons.
This shocking situation, which contrasts with what will be the case when the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights becomes binding - under which foreigners as well as EU citizens will have their basic rights guaranteed - comes hot on the heels of other miscarriages of justice such as the case of a Briton who was executed when a Texas judge refused to look at DNA evidence and another Briton held for three weeks in prison in South Africa because of FBI incompetence.
I think that the European Union has every reason to defend what it considers are basic rights and it will do so with every partner and every country, especially the United States, with which we share common values and common objectives.
Thus, as the honourable lady Member said, I agree that it would be a good idea if the candidate countries and other neighbouring countries, including Russia, could apply the same principles as are in force in the European Union.
The Council, to be specific the Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council, followed precisely this approach in its conclusions on 6 December 2002.
It approved conclusions on the maritime security and the prevention of pollution following the accident of the oil tanker Prestige off the coast of Galicia.
It also took note of the Commission's intention to take the necessary steps, in cooperation with Member States, to ensure that EU candidate countries, as well as other neighbouring countries, including Russia, only ship heavy grades of oil in double-hulled tankers.
The Council also supports the Commission in its efforts to investigate the potential for technical cooperation programmes to assist neighbouring countries - in particular the applicant countries, Russia and within the EURO-MED framework - in their efforts to increase maritime safety and pollution prevention, including the effective application of adequate port state control procedures.
It is very important that we ensure, for example, that double hulls are used with shipments of oil, but that is not enough in all situations.
I would therefore like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you agree with the Finnish initiative proposing the amendment of the Regulation on double hulls so that in the future a Member State could insist that vessels coming into dock should be adequately strengthened to withstand the pressure of ice.
As I said, it makes sense from our point of view to look at this overall issue not just as a European Union issue, but as an issue which also concerns candidate countries and neighbouring countries, including Russia.
So we are making a dual effort; we are endeavouring to improve our own legislation to prevent these accidents and, at the same time, to push the necessary measures through at international level; in our own backyard to start with and at international level, in order to show that we mean business when it comes to the safety of these tankers and the prevention of similar disasters.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you know, following the 1989 accident involving the oil-tanker Exxon Valdez, the United States proclaimed a law called the 'Oil Pollution Act', which sought to provide an effective remedy to this type of problem.
Only EUR 180 million have been set aside for clearing up the Prestige disaster, to be divided between Galicia (the most badly affected country, which is my country - my nation), other communities in the Spanish State and France.
First, I am sure that the Council and the Commission are evaluating similar legislation in other countries, so that they can decide what is best and what should be encouraged at international level.
In reply to your second question, as I said earlier, the European Union cannot solve this problem alone.
It is important to ensure that if dangerous vessels such as these which do not meet the required standards are banned from European territorial waters they do not then move on to a third country's territorial waters and cause problems there.
It is important to move forward via the international community.
On a related matter, may I say, Mrs Ainardi, that - like the European Parliament - the Council reacted immediately to the accident involving the Prestige off the coast of Galicia in November 2002.
The Council takes account of Parliament's resolutions and endorses most of the principles contained in them.
In one of the measures contained in the conclusions which it issued on 6 December on maritime security and the prevention of pollution, the Council expressed its support for the ongoing work in the IMO to develop a flag state code and a compulsory model audit scheme aimed at ensuring that flag states carry out their duties under the international conventions.
The Commission may take the initiative and propose special measures for ships sailing under so-called flags of convenience.
Current legislation allows port state controls to be stepped up on the basis of the criteria for classifying substandard ships.
In addition, under the port state directive, which must enter into force by 22 July 2003 and which forms part of the Erika I package, Member States may refuse port access to various categories of ships flying the flag of a country on the black list published in the annual report of the Memorandum of Understanding which have already been detained in the past.
Thank you, Mr President, for everything that you have said, but allow me to also stress my point because Parliament has also followed all the Commission and Council initiatives to speed up the implementation of the ERIKA I and ERIKA II packages.
We have Directive 2001/106/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 95/21 concerning the enforcement, in respect of shipping using Community ports and sailing in the waters under the jurisdiction of the Member States, of international standards for ship safety, pollution prevention and shipboard living and working conditions.
The Council is prepared to examine all these specific cases, be it double hulls or the specific problem of shipping crude oil and heavy grades.
We are prepared to do what we can to promote regulations for us and, of course, at international level.
There have been accidents in the European Union.
As I said earlier, we need to evaluate any important ideas, innovations or legislation in other countries in the light of our own experience.
I should also like to say that the summit Council took a very important decision in Copenhagen, the Council of transport ministers took a decision dealing with these aspects and I am sure that no Member State has any desire to block measures which will help to protect the environment.
The United Kingdom has an extensive coastline.
Greece has an extensive coastline.
It would be incongruous if a country such as the United Kingdom did not want to protect its coastline.
I think that the European Union, and the Council in particular, has every intention of passing the necessary legislation, as does the Commission, which has the initiative for any new regulations.
So we are waiting for initiatives from the Commission and we are prepared to shoulder our responsibility in the Council.
However, I must reiterate that we cannot assume that our legislation alone is protection enough.
As you know, the Council does not have the jurisdiction to answer this question, but allow me as a citizen to condemn this incident.
I believe that these organisations need money and the support of members of the public.
May I remind Mr Medina Ortega that, under the conclusions of the Seville Council and the plan for the management of the external borders of the Member States of the European Union, various joint operations, pilot programmes and cooperation centres have been started up; 17 in total, to be precise.
A progress report on the application of the plan for the management of the external borders was submitted to the Council on 19 December 2002.
The report stated that the Ulysses programme would start at the beginning of 2003.
The first stage of the operation was implemented in the Mediterranean between the 25 January and 10 February 2003.
Spain, which is heading the operation, informed the Council that the second part of the operation would take place in April 2003.
However, the Council does not have specific information at this precise moment about the exact date of the operation or its geographical scope.
A final report on the application of the various programmes, operations and cooperation centres will be presented to the Justice and Home Affairs Council to be held on 5 and 6 June this year.
The aim is to submit this report to the European Council in Thessalonika, which will of course discuss the broader issues of immigration, illegal immigration, border protection and other important matters, such as the social integration of legal immigrants.
As I said, this is a pilot programme because, basically, this is the first time there has been such extensive collaboration between the Member States on this sort of operation.
The problem of illegal immigration is, of course, a complicated problem because there is not just the question of protecting our borders; other factors come into play, such as hotbeds of war, hotbeds of poverty, environmental, political and other crises.
This is a pilot programme and it will need to be evaluated, as will numerous other measures we need to take in connection with other Union policies, such as justice and home affairs, development cooperation and bilateral relations with numerous countries, measures that we trust will also have positive results.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to ask if the Council has already considered including the Galileo satellite navigation project in the Odysseus programme and to what extent plans for this have progressed.
The Council has not yet reached a decision on these issues.
Until then, immigration and illegal immigration will be the subject of serious debate in the Council.
Of course, the initial basic debate on these issues was held in Tampere in Finland and it was this that set the ball rolling in the right direction.
This directive was agreed at the informal meeting of the 15 ministers for justice and home affairs.
I therefore welcome the important initiatives taken by the European Parliament.
In reply to Mr Dupuis' question about the western Balkan countries he mentioned, Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro, their European prospects as possible candidate countries were confirmed at the summit held in Zagreb between the European Union and these countries in November 2000, on the basis of the conclusions of the European Council in Feira on 19 and 20 June 2000.
The Copenhagen European Council in December last year recalled the candidacy criteria set by the Copenhagen European Council in June 1993 and reaffirmed the European perspective of the countries of the western Balkans.
The Council also underlined its determination to support their efforts to move closer to the European Union and welcomed the decision and the priority set by the Greek Presidency to organise a summit on 21 June in Thessalonika.
This summit will be attended by the Member States of the European Union and the countries of the western Balkans.
The Greek Presidency's programme of work on enlargement expressly states that the presidency will continue and step up cooperation with the countries in the region in order to promote their maximum possible integration into European political and economic life.
Naturally our aim is to ensure this process helps countries actually acquire the status of candidates for accession to the European Union.
The Council would also remind you that, of these countries, Croatia submitted an accession request on 21 February 2003.
The Council is due to evaluate this request shortly so that it can pass it on to the Commission, which will evaluate it in detail and give its opinion before the Council reaches a decision on its candidacy.
It is, if you like, a magnet for the region, giving us reason to believe that the European Union is an important incentive for the region to carry out the necessary reforms, reforms which are vital to stability in the Balkans.
It goes without saying, therefore, that the summit in Thessalonika will be another milestone in special relations between the European Union and the western Balkans.
As far as the countries of the southern Caucasus are concerned, the European Union and its Member States and Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Moldavia have signed partnership and cooperation agreements.
The European Union has promised to help establish the rule of law, economic reform, peace, security and stability in these countries, none of which has as yet submitted an application to join the Union.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for your very detailed answer.
With these accessions being announced, would it not be politically better for the European Union to propose that these countries be put on the list of candidate countries, which is legally and politically different from formally opening up negotiations?
With regard to the countries of the Caucasus, which I have had many opportunities to visit, each time I have noticed that the Greek ambassadors were more mindful of the need to ensure a clear possibility for integrating those countries into the European Union.
You know as well as I do that the destabilisation brought about by a major neighbouring country has had absolutely devastating effects and that it is a vicious circle, that without a clear option of accession these countries will not be able to get out of the spiral.
First of all, you said that we should consider registering these countries.
If you mean the official prospects of these countries becoming candidates, and perhaps that is precisely what you meant, this has already been decided and is, I think, an important message.
We have the ten new countries which will join at the signing ceremony in Athens on 16 April, we have the three candidate countries, Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey, and we hope to give the countries in the western Balkans the prospect of becoming candidates.
So there is a clear commitment here, subject of course to compliance with requirements, by which I mean the Copenhagen criteria, important reform, good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation.
Of course, I represent the Fifteen here and I should like at this point to tell you that the Council has repeatedly discussed the question of candidate countries such as Turkey.
But you have raised an important issue which will no doubt engage both the Council and the European Parliament for a long time to come.
Thank you for your question, because I think this issue needs to be clarified.
By definition, enlargement changes the borders of the European Union, and what we want to emphasise is that these borders will operate not as new Berlin walls, but as bridges for cooperation.
Bridges for cooperation, of course, based on our common values, our objectives for democracy, freedom, respect for human rights, economic and cultural relations, security, our approach to organised crime and joint cooperation with this region as a whole, our common region which extends from Russia to the Mediterranean.
The Commission, therefore, has a role to play and we have asked the Commission in repeated debates in the Council to come forward with a proposal for this new common region and how these bridges for cooperation with our neighbours can be strengthened; however, this has not been linked with candidates' prospects.
As I said to the previous speaker, this is a serious problem and a broad dialogue has been opened on the issue; I think you also mentioned it and it has been discussed at the Convention, but we have not taken any decisions.
So yes, the Commission has prepared a text and it will be discussed at the European Conference in Athens the day after the signing ceremony with the ten new countries.
This conference will be attended by some 40 countries, but not as prospective candidates.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Croatia's application for membership represents a further step towards the stabilisation of this region.
First of all, as I said earlier, we have condemned this incident and expressed our sorrow.
However, I think that developments in this country are developments in which we have invested a great deal; we have concerned ourselves with the future of Serbia and Montenegro and the region as a whole for many years now and we are committed to efforts to maintain and guarantee permanent stability, peace and democratic institutions there.
It is on our agenda and we shall take measures over the next few days if any special support is needed.
I hope that she will be appearing any moment now.
In my own-initiative report on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, I have dealt with gender mainstreaming in the European Parliament both at political and administrative level.
We have held discussions on this in my committee with stakeholders, we have had a series of discussions both with the President and with the Secretary-General, followed by a public hearing, and we have also held discussions with staff representatives and with the advisory committee.
Parliament must act as a motor for equal opportunities, as it has indeed repeatedly done in the past, and gender mainstreaming now needs to be incorporated into our political activities and our structures in a coherent and comprehensive way.
This report accordingly proposes a whole raft of measures intended to underpin the principle of gender mainstreaming in the long term.
Our proposal here is that one member, preferably the Chair or a Vice-Chair, should be made responsible for gender mainstreaming and that the individual committees should then identify projects in their respective work programmes to ascertain how gender mainstreaming can be achieved in their area of activity and systematically check the impact of measures affecting women and men.
Each committee should then carry out an annual assessment of its activities and achievements in the field of gender mainstreaming on the basis of predetermined targets and should monitor these measures.
We propose that the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities should then draw the individual reports together into an annual report on gender mainstreaming and make recommendations for further steps.
Our objective, particularly bearing in mind enlargement, must be to involve the candidate countries in this process, and with an eye to the elections to Parliament in 2004 to ensure that equal representation of men and women can be achieved.
The situation as it stands is that although Parliament has always been in the vanguard in this respect, the proportion of women Members was 17.5% in 1979, and this has now risen to 31%.
I believe that it is highly important that we should give a positive political signal by implementing benchmarking and gender mainstreaming, so that the 2004 elections will represent an advance - and not a retrograde step.
We are not expecting a commissioner for this debate.
Therefore, the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities proposes that Parliament should adopt a plan of action alongside measures which, of course, are provided for in the legislation and are aimed at reaching the objectives we wish to achieve.
Mr President, this is a process which has ramifications in our social structures and in the institutions and which, naturally, must see effective equality as the conquest of substantive equality of fundamental rights and duties in an open, globalised society that wants to give due importance to all cultural expressions.
I think it is fundamental that there should be a high-level policy group to restore the gender balance in Parliament's governing bodies and in Parliament as a whole, especially in view of enlargement, which must take into account the goals we wish to achieve.
That report not only provides for the appointment of a higher percentage of women at A1 and A3 levels in the next few years, but it also states that, in terms of career development, the principle of priority should be applied systematically.
In other words, giving absolute and unconditional priority to the under-represented gender for appointment or promotion is, according to the Court's ruling, not only going beyond the objective of promoting equal opportunities but also replacing this objective with an outcome of equal representation, which can only be achieved if this objective is fulfilled.
The most important aspect of this report is that it highlights the need for political will at all decision-making levels, in the administrative structure, in the Bureau, in the Conference of Presidents and in the functioning of the political groups, if we are to achieve better results in gender equality.
The report contains interesting proposals for a social infrastructure, such as childcare facilities for members' and employees' children, which we feel is a sine qua non, together with other proposals relating to the presence of women and the impact this will have at all levels and on all policies applied in the European Parliament.
Nonetheless, we trust that it will provide ample opportunity for thought and will inspire us to adopt measures, now that the European Parliament is preparing to enlarge and to welcome representatives from the new Member States.
We must not simply present the best possible image; we must also set an example for the new countries, without of course forgetting that many of the present Member States are still in need of advice and proposals on how to improve their parliamentary life and the operating mechanisms of their parliaments, in order to achieve equal representation between the sexes.
The European Parliament can offer a valuable framework for exercising policy and drawing useful conclusions about the application of gender equality in practice by encouraging equal representation of the sexes, both in parliamentary office and by promoting women to responsible positions within Parliament and helping women improve their grading and pay at all levels of the administrative hierarchy within the European Parliament.
Unfortunately, 6 years after the concept of gender mainstreaming was set out in the Amsterdam Treaty, this important strategy for achieving equality is still not fully operational in either the administration of the European Parliament or its political work.
However, we need support and commitment at the highest possible level if we are to achieve this objective and, at the same time, we need funds to ensure that the measures proposed in the report are applied consistently.
The principle of gender mainstreaming must be clearly laid down in the new constitutional Treaty; this is one of my committee's main objectives in our fight to make the future Europe - and, we hope, the male members of the European Parliament - more aware of gender issues.
In all events, I think the decision taken by the Greek Presidency at the recent informal Council at your instigation, Commissioner, for the European Commission to submit an annual report on the application of gender mainstreaming in the Union, was a very important decision.
The last example shows how worthwhile it can be making active efforts to promote women's participation and how it is possible to bring about more equal representation, either through quota arrangements on the individual lists or through the option of preferential elections.
One such indirect system is the European Convention, only 17% of whose members are women, and an example of a hierarchical system is the administration of the European Parliament, which is also short on equality.
If we, as the number one democratic institution, cannot set a better example than we are able to do at present, how are we to be able to convince people in Europe that equality is a 'sine qua non', or necessity, if we are to have a proper future in Europe.
It is extremely difficult to implement what the European Parliament is proposing with gender mainstreaming, which I would translate into French as transversalité.
First of all we need to recognise how difficult it is to make policies specific to women, which is why Parliament has a Committee on Women's Rights, and, at the same time, ensuring that those policies have transverse effects across all committees and in all political issues.
We should walk on two feet rather than just one: on the one hand, equality, with the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, and on the other hand, gender mainstreaming, which is extremely difficult.
I think that this second point is just as fundamental.
That is why this report is important both for its pioneering nature and because it highlights the difficulty of this policy.
Commissioner, the informal Council meeting last week had already practically ratified some proposals of this report and I am pleased about that.
However, I am much less pleased about what is happening with enlargement.
Malta has just gained the right to vote on enlargement despite its anti-abortion legislation and its restrictions on divorce, and these seem to have been accepted by Europe and by the fifteen Member States.
It has been said that it was important for us to set an example to future Member States, but if we cannot ask them to respect a certain number of established principles regarding women's rights, I am greatly concerned.
Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I find it disappointing that yet another report on gender mainstreaming has to come before the European Parliament, a policy that was approved years ago and should have already been implemented.
When I dream of mainstreaming and the resulting equality between men and women in this institution, I also see the first female secretary-general and a 50/50 division between men and women in all grades.
Half of the people working part time would be men and in the late afternoon there would be children running around who had been collected from a crèche for which there was no waiting list, and which had been provided by Parliament.
I therefore see a the gender mainstreaming report as a missed opportunity to fully integrate the acquis communautaire in respect of equality, including the Hautala directive adopted by the Council not so long ago, into the statute of public servants and the personnel policy of the European Parliament.
During school holidays or an unforeseen strike at school we see many children running around in this House.
Fellow members, unfortunately I have to inform you that my contribution so far has been based on an argument that I articulated in this House on 8 March 2002 to add lustre to International Women's Day.
Despite the overall extension of the protection of the fundamental rights of women in recent years, the integration of the principle of equal opportunities is still not satisfactory in all areas, particularly in the political and administrative fields.
The balanced and active participation of women and men in political life is a crucial instrument for consolidating a more just and democratic society.
Given that Parliament is the institution closest to the citizens and that its commitment to protecting equal opportunities has enabled many policies in this field to be developed, it is its duty to set an example by increasing the integration of women into parliamentary activities and into the institution's internal structures.
I wish to emphasise, without attempting to make a judgement on my own work, that the work undertaken by the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities has proved to be of crucial importance in raising the awareness of other committees, through the speeches and opinions it has delivered.
We have said that we want to be a fairer and more equal society.
Quite simply because we feel that this integrated approach will lead to a fairer, more democratic society, and that taking into account the differences between men and women will enable us to take better advantage of human resources.
Twenty years is an important milestone, and I hope that we will be able to make a more than positive assessment of all the work that has been done.
No doubt that says a lot about the situation in the rest of the world.
Following the most recent election in Sweden in September 2002, our national parliament consists of 47% women, that is to say even more than the 44.3% mentioned by Mrs Dybkjær.
Mr President, gender mainstreaming was put on the European Union's agenda and through the European Union on that of the UN around ten years ago by a joint action of Swedish and Dutch feminist policymakers.
The basic thought behind this approach, that is that women's problems are cross-cutting problems, goes back much further however and was applied in policy far earlier.
The idea of gender mainstreaming is to strip so-called general policy of its generality, to shatter this myth and to see how it has a different effect on men and women.
Hidden behind these definitions of reality are positions of power which, as feminists know, will never be given up without a struggle.
The political question behind this report is therefore the following: are the men who rule the roost in this Parliament really prepared to step aside a little and to share the power with us?
Mr President, we will vote in favour of this report, because it contains a number of good intentions regarding equality between men and women, and it proposes that Parliament should put its own house in order.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at noon tomorrow.
Mr President, Commissioner, the objective of equality of opportunities between women and men was incorporated into the Treaty of Amsterdam, and this established the legal basis for the Community commitment to working on all the Structural Funds programmes in order to attain this objective.
It was also incorporated into the Regulation for the Structural Funds for the 2000-2006 period.
Equality of opportunities is an objective in all the programmes and actions cofinanced by the Funds.
Despite these very clear objectives and their compulsory nature, we have observed that, apart from the European Social Fund, they are not being met, even when they are included in a programme that is due to be implemented.
Although the European Social Fund focuses on promoting employment, major actions still need to be undertaken, such as reducing segregation in the labour market and pay inequalities, and promoting the role of women in the fields of information and communication technologies, entrepreneurship, new employment opportunities and the decision-making process.
We ask the Commission to adopt more specific and more effective measures to remedy these shortcomings.
It is true that progress has been made on compiling statistics broken down by gender, which gives us a truer picture of the situation, but monitoring indicators for the programmes have not improved in relation to previous programming.
The Member States are responsible for programming and we ask them to make more of an effort to support specific policies and actions to achieve the objective of equal opportunities, by selecting projects that meet this aim.
Greater integration of women into decision-making bodies would undoubtedly facilitate this task.
Training and awareness-raising in the field of equal opportunities should not only target these women, however, but society as a whole.
Let us take the opportunities provided by the Treaty and the Structural Funds Regulation to make progress in equal opportunities with projects that fulfil these objectives.
Account must also be taken of the importance of these actions in the candidate countries, which will become Members of the EU in just over a year and which have administrative and economic restructuring difficulties that particularly affect women.
Naturally the Structural Funds are also subject to the dual approach to gender equality, by which I mean mainstreaming and specific practices and specific programmes open only to women, what we call positive action.
The Structural Funds regulation is an important tool, but it needs to be applied correctly in practice.
The Swedish Government recently held a seminar for all its ministers.
The ministerial council was given a seminar on mainstreaming, at which planning requirements in all the individual political areas were explained.
I think that the Commission was quite right to present a communication in December 2002 on gender mainstreaming in the Structural Funds for 2000 to 2006; it could not have done so at a better time.
This gives us an initial opportunity, in the first two years' implementation of the new Community Support Framework, to see if and to what extent Member States have taken account of the gender dimension at the planning stage.
We have initial records; we do not have statistics because, as you know, most programmes started up in the last 18 months.
What we can see, taking account of subsidiarity in the planning of the Structural Funds, is that a number of good practices and important indicators have been introduced, but only by certain Member States.
These indicators include the number of women which have set up their own company, the ratio between the number of programmes for women and other programmes, the percentage of women trained in the information society, which local employment programmes take account of the gender dimension, the percentage of women taking part in training programmes overall and a whole series of indicators which only certain countries use.
It is not the rule and I think it would be a good idea if your committee and the members of parliament in each country were to lobby their governments, because we do not have indicators for all the individual programmes and that is what we need.
This communication has come along at exactly the right time, because it gives us the opportunity to consider revising the Structural Funds and changing the distribution of funding and the distribution of the new reserve, in order to take account of how well these programmes perform from the mainstreaming perspective.
This interim review will give us ample opportunity, together with the records of what has been happening in the Member States, to see how we can lobby for funds to be redistributed and channelled to specific policies for women.
A third important point is the need for more training for senior administrative officials and politicians.
The gaps are many and various: the low level of women's participation in information and communication technologies, the low level of entrepreneurship amongst women and their lack of representation in the decision-making process.
It should be stated, as a matter of fact, that despite the importance of the political commitment they have given, Member States have failed appropriately to honour this commitment.
It is reasonable to give the responsible authorities the right to reject proposals or to propose their revision and to apply penalties in the event that projects do not comply with the requirements to integrate equal opportunities.
A final remark to emphasise that this year the interim evaluation of the Structural Funds for the 2000-2006 period will take place.
In this context, the Commission and the Member States must take the opportunity to undertake the necessary modifications so as to increase the degree of implementation of the objective of equal opportunities for men and women for the remaining programming period.
The same commitment applies to the Equal, Interreg III, Urban II and Leader Plus Community initiatives.
However, as we have already heard from the previous speakers, the implementation of the objectives to be pursued to achieve equality between men and women in these programmes leaves a great deal to be desired in practice.
One of the important things here is for Structural Fund plans and programmes to include financing programmes which identify funding available for individual measures and actions to improve equality of opportunities.
We are now to have an array of new Member States with traditions and histories different from our own and, therefore, with views of the concept of equality different from that which we have in the existing Member States.
When I was reflecting upon what I should say in these two consecutive debates, it occurred to me how concentrating upon women's issues induces a degree of political weariness.
In 1993, the UN conference in Vienna decided that women's rights are also human rights.
In other words, there are more than 1 500 years between these two decisions.
Women I meet throughout the Member States are also extremely weary.
As we all know, when operated effectively Structural Funds play a key role in helping the regions and the people in most need, reviving deprived communities and helping to combat social exclusion.
Wales is a beneficiary of Objective I funding and has probably had a very similar experience to other areas of Europe.
All this shows the importance of monitoring systems which will enable us to compare what is really on the ground in different countries.
The previous speakers referred to all these shortcomings and the opportunities lost for promoting equality and creating infrastructures which will have a direct and positive impact on women's lives.
My point is that there is no public debate on this issue in the Member States; no debate about their obligations, about the need for evaluation and about the need for a policy change.
It is very significant that this debate is being held at the same time as the mid-term review and we must continue and extend it to the Member States; we must help to broaden this debate, including in the new Member States and we must give them to understand that the Structural Funds and the new structural policy will give them an important tool with which to meet the challenges they face.
We must also work with them to ensure that the new structural policy includes appropriate policies to plug the current gaps and an understanding and awareness of the need for the decisions made in the Member States to be put into practice.
I think this will be an important package that we can work on together, in order to have some effect on the implementation of these policies at all levels - national, regional and local - in the Member States.
This must likewise apply in the wake of enlargement, because the need for Structural Funds in the new Member States can be expected to be so great that the gender dimension there will be subject to extremely harsh treatment.
This is no longer a true reflection, however, of the situation in the Member States.
Even with the existence of a regulation dating back to 1999, which sets equality of opportunity as a key objective of actions under the Structural Funds, it is nevertheless true that, with the exception of the European Social Fund, this concept has still not been incorporated by the administrations, either of the fifteen countries of the Union or of the ten enlargement countries.
Greater participation by women in the teams that draw up and study projects to be funded and in drawing up indicators that enable effects and results in this field to be measured are crucial.
It is because of our attitudes and approaches that we are still a very long way from a genuinely equal society.
We are now discussing one such structure, namely that formed by the European Social Fund and the Structural Funds.
Cohesion policy, the European Social Fund and the Structural Funds are very important in terms of developing cooperation within the EU.
It is only if everyone feels they are participating that it will be possible for European cooperation to be fully successful.
Equality has been a priority objective of the Structural Funds since 1994.
The work must therefore be designed to ensure that women derive as much benefit as men from what the Structural Funds have to offer.
The equality perspective must be incorporated into all the work being done on programmes.
If it is possible for the Structural Funds to be characterised by this attitude, I am sure that matters will look different the next time we debate these issues.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at noon tomorrow.
In practical terms this dealt with two resolutions establishing actions, principally the freezing of funds and other economic resources, applicable to the persons and bodies included on the list created by the United Nations Sanctions Committee specifically for this purpose.
The European Parliament delivered its opinion on 11 April 2002, under an emergency procedure, and adopted the Resolution with 14 amendments.
Last December, the United Nations Security Council adopted another Resolution, No 1454 of 2002, recognising certain exceptions to the obligation to freeze funds and economic assets.
There are five amendments, which seek the express inclusion in the Community Regulation of the procedure for deleting the names of individuals from the list of terrorists currently in force in the United Nations, to ensure that the European Parliament is fully involved and informed, and to deal with the need for the lifespan of this Regulation to be in line with the period of validity of the United Nations resolutions it is transposing.
If we do indeed all agree that we wish to create an area of freedom, security and justice, we must work to ensure that its three components work fully and with equal intensity throughout the territory of the European Union.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I fervently hope in future to see practical approaches to the rights and freedoms of the victims of terrorism and their families.
Following the terrorist attacks on the USA on 11 September 2001 and the subsequent collapse of the Taliban regime, these measures were reviewed in early 2002.
The list of persons and entities whose funds and economic resources are to be frozen was determined by a committee of the UN Security Council on the basis of Chapter VII of the UN Charter on measures necessary to maintain international peace and security.
These measures are binding on all UN members.
The Council of the European Union transposed this list into Community law by means of Regulation (EC) 881/2002 and authorised the Commission to publish amendments to this list.
As you yourself mentioned, Mr Hernández Mollar, it was in April that Parliament adopted its opinion on this regulation.
The Council and the Commission very much welcome Parliament's cooperation in this matter, not only as regards the fight against terrorism and the financing of that fight, but also in terms of strengthening the reputation of Member States as loyal members of the United Nations.
The Council considered this and other demands made in Parliament's opinion, taking into account the Member States' obligations under the Charter of the United Nations.
On the basis of this consideration the Council reached the conclusion that under the relevant Security Council resolution it was not permissible for the Member States of the European Union to adopt unilateral exemptions to the provisions for freezing funds.
The proposal is in line with Resolution 1452(2002) of the UN Security Council, in accordance with which exemptions are permissible upon application by Member States of the European Union.
The Commission welcomes the report prepared by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and wishes to thank the rapporteur very sincerely for his very hard work.
The report shows that the exemptions proposed here sufficiently reflect concerns about the possible impact of measures on the right to life of natural persons affected by sanctions.
Resolution 1452 and the proposal on which Parliament has given its opinion are important means for promoting respect for fundamental rights.
The Commission is conscious that the right balance needs to be struck between the basic rights guaranteed in democratic societies and the need to fight terrorism, a need which has a very high priority on the agenda of the international community.
As the international community believes that terrorism threatens international peace and security, it is vital that the powers of the UN Security Council to react to such threats should be preserved.
The tragic events of 11 September 2001 and the terrorist attack of 12 October 2002 in Bali are recent, shocking and violent illustrations of this.
We have absolutely no doubt that this scourge must be combated, in the aim of protecting our citizens from any threat to their security.
I must praise the swift and effective action that the European Union has undertaken to provide an effective response to this scourge, defining a global anti-terrorist strategy by adopting the European plan of action to combat terrorism on 21 September 2001, with later updates in Ghent, Laeken and more recently in Seville.
Nevertheless, whatever responses we come up with to combat this type of threat, we must always bear in mind that any measure that is taken cannot and must not call into question full respect for, assurances of and the promotion of the fundamental and human rights that have always underpinned European construction.
Furthermore, our fight for security cannot and must not undermine freedom.
We must, therefore, ensure a degree of balance without calling into question the fundamental values accepted by our societies.
The anti-terrorist legislation to which we have had to devote ourselves following 11 September is designed to strike a balance in which we, on the one hand, respond to terrorist crimes but, on the other hand, also promote and defend legal certainty in the process.
The legal certainty of the individual must be guaranteed in connection with the fight against terrorism.
When three Swedish citizens were listed among those whose funds and economic resources were to be frozen following 11 September, it was very clear what difficulties arise when people, first of all, are put onto such a list; secondly, they do not know what action to take in order to appeal against a decision; and, thirdly, they do not know how they are to keep body and soul together when they have no access to what is needed to meet the exigencies of daily life.
I am therefore pleased that the European Parliament can now contribute to a procedure more in keeping with legal certainty: a humanitarian exemption from the freezing of funds and economic resources, of which the rapporteur has given an account.
That is something for which the Member States, including Sweden, and the European Parliament have been working over a long period.
As always in the case of action taken by the authorities, legal certainty at both national and international levels is important to the individual.
One example is that the UN Sanctions Committee must, from this year, justify its decisions, something that is absolutely crucial.
In the future too, the European Parliament must, at every opportunity, require that the fundamental human rights accorded by our international community be respected, even in difficult situations such as that following 11 September.
We propose that the EU introduce provisions concerning processes for deleting persons from lists of those whose funds and economic resources are to be frozen.
The amendments that the committee is proposing and on which we have to adopt a position tomorrow are constructive, because they require a procedure for de-listing.
These amendments must then be carefully considered by the international community, the Commission and the Council.
The fact is that this is legislation that defines specific persons and organisations in advance as terrorists, and the content of the report is a type of humanisation of these rules.
That is in actual fact the principle that generally applies.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at noon tomorrow.
The Commission has been unable to comply with European law and deliver its report on the work of OLAF on schedule.
Parliament has been waiting for this report.
We assumed that as the guardian of the Treaties, the Commission itself could not possibly breach the Treaties - I have in mind Regulation 1073/99.
I hope that this will not happen again and hope to see the report in the very near future.
I would like to congratulate the Greek Presidency on this achievement, and I specifically wish to thank you, Commissioner, for your support in this area.
My second point is that I am very pleased that the Commission is finally intending to take measures against a former Commissioner.
In doing so it will be complying with the specific wishes of the European Parliament, in accordance with Article 213 of the EC Treaty.
I can tell you now that it was not Parliament that uncovered these irregularities but the Commission, which has known since 1999 at the latest that things were not right with Eurostat, and you have simply stood by and done nothing for years.
All applications need to relate to a project commencing between 1 July 2003 and 1 December 2003 and ending by 30 June 2004.
In response to a proposal I made in July 2000, the Prodi Commission agreed on an overall strategy for protecting the Community's financial interests and an Action Plan for 2001-2003.
Mr Bösch's report relates primarily to the Commission's report on the fight against fraud in 2001.
The Commission report emphasises the need for close cooperation with the Member States; it includes a review of the measures taken by the Member States in 2001 with a view to enhancing protection of the Community's financial interests.
In order to make the process more effective, the Commission has redefined responsibilities in its departments.
Its December 2002 communication on the recovery of Community support funds goes into further detail on the distribution of tasks and on procedures, proposes preventive measures and enhances the responsibility of authorising officers.
You mentioned the OLAF progress report drawn up under Article 15 of the OLAF Regulation.
It will appear on the Commission's agenda within the next four weeks and will then be presented to the Supervisory Committee.
We hope to make significant progress in this field this year.
In Poland these structures were extended in 2001 and 2002 with the support of an OLAF official working there, and the Commission made EUR 15 million from the Phare programme available to Poland in order to develop those structures and increase efficiency.
We will continue to endeavour to achieve a different outcome, but that is Switzerland's position and it is very difficult to make progress on this given that one point relating to the Schengen Agreement is a very important issue still under negotiation.
Lastly, I would like to touch upon one final but important point.
Significant progress towards the creation of a European Public Prosecutor may be achieved, and that is a proposal that has the support of both Parliament and the Commission.
The Commission will also be adopting the follow-up report on its Green Paper next week or by the latest the following week.
The protection of the Community's financial interests and the fight against fraud are crucial components in guaranteeing the rights of citizens in the European Union.
The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the almost 40% reduction in the total annual volume of fraud and irregularities between 2000 and 2001.
This fell from EUR 2 028 million in 2000 to EUR 1 275 million in 2001.
Fraud reduction has taken place in all spheres, except in the Structural Funds, where there has been an increase.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has on several occasions expressed its unhappiness with the poor functioning of the system and the need for its management to be improved.
Our Group also hopes that the Commission will fulfil its commitment to a policy of zero tolerance with regard to internal fraud, and that it duly informs Parliament of developments made in the various cases in progress and in recently-opened investigations.
With regard to both external fraud - perpetrated in the various Member States - and to internal - that is, institutional - fraud, we in Parliament, and specifically the Committee on Budgetary Control, look forward to hearing the response of the various Member States to the proposal for a European Prosecutor, since we are attempting to determine the most appropriate way of dealing with this body, particularly with regard to its competences and to a relationship that befits a body for coordination and assistance, such as Eurojust.
Secrecy should be the exception and not the rule.
The public must also receive its information in a different way and not only through leaks.
It is clear that without the second step that must finally be taken now, by which I mean the step of setting up a European Public Prosecutor's office, it will repeatedly be left to the Member States to decide what measures to take.
The legislative simplification we are talking about is a proposal that, in practice, rather puts the cart before the horse, and we are forced to table some amendments to it.
We must think about this carefully, because the creation of such a body is premature, if one considers that the objectives of judicial cooperation - which prevails here - have not been achieved and that it is necessary to harmonise the rules on criminal matters in Member State institutions.
One cannot simply attribute criminal law competence to the Court of Justice: the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance were set up for other purposes and, anyway, it is not necessary to create a European Prosecutor when we just have to strengthen judicial cooperation, taking inspiration from the principle of subsidiarity, which is precisely the criterion on which we must base our action.
The debate is closed.
