Implementing trade policy through efficient import and export rules and procedures (debate) The next item is the report by Jean-Pierre Audy, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on implementing trade policy through efficient import and export rules and procedures.
We all know that if the multilateral trade negotiations break down, we will end up with bilateral competition - which as we are all aware is governed by the law of survival of the fittest - and we will need a strong and effective customs union.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am pleased that you allow me to react to the report prepared by Jean-Pierre Audy and unanimously adopted by the Committee on International Trade on 6 May.
On 27 May, the Committee on International Trade was informed of the state of play of the reform of these rules for the Generalised System of Preferences.
Although our customs union has been around for 40 years, the Member States still do not apply customs regulations in a sufficiently uniform manner.
From an economic point of view, they naturally have to facilitate international trade and the European Union has every interest in seeing this happen.
Yet they also have to focus on their security role, in terms of thwarting and fighting against counterfeiting and piracy, combating situations of totally unfair competition that undermine some European businesses, especially in weaker sectors and in terms of protecting the environment and public health, which are assets that our communities are increasingly coming to appreciate.
I shall end as I began, by congratulating the author of this report, that I believe has done Europe a service in this specific and very important field of the customs system.
We send some two million containers from the EU, and this system, if introduced, would cover more than 700 ports all over the world, so you can imagine what kind of problems it will cause.
Finally, as emphasised in the report, 2008 is the year of the 40th anniversary of the Customs Union.
He also explained this to me back in December 2005, when we were in Hong Kong together.
