Financing the common agricultural policy The next item is the report by Jorgo Chatzimarkakis, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 on the financing of the common agricultural policy - C6-0116/2007 -.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to say a few words about the report on Regulation 1290/2005 on the financing of the common agricultural policy.
Article 53 of the Financial Regulation sets out that there should be an ex post publication of beneficiaries by Member States.
As you know, there is already a reduction-suspension mechanism in Regulation 1290/2005.
I would like to start by reminding the House what this common agricultural policy actually means to the vast majority of our nearly 500 million citizens.
Eleven Member States are already publishing all payments comprehensively.
In the Council, the issue of who publishes the information was very controversial.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I am much obliged to my colleague Mr Chatzimarkakis, who has presented a report that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats can endorse in all respects.
It is a legitimate question, however, whether this regulation was even necessary.
As my colleague has just mentioned, it is also important that this directive does not invalidate data protection provisions, particularly those of Member States.
In the interests of equal treatment, however, I would ask the Commission to present a regulation ensuring transparency also in non-governmental organisations, for example.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the first objective of this Regulation, which is to comply with the obligation to publish information on the beneficiaries of Community funds, I think it is quite right that we should finally know who receives what from the CAP.
This is a long-awaited measure, though it is not a question of stigmatising farmers but of creating transparency in finance, which concerns us all as taxpayers and consumers, and over which we have a right of information.
I therefore ask you to reject, wholly or in part, amendments 4, 20, 21 and 23, which require registration of the identity and motivations of the users of the public data.
This is needed because that should be a requirement in itself for all European funding, but also because it will help to dispel some of the exaggerated myths that abound about the CAP.
Indeed, Court of Auditors reports tell us that in recent times the checks on agricultural expenditure have greatly improved.
The most valuable provision of all is the one that makes it possible to publish, or rather makes it a duty to publish, information on who made use of these funds and in what context, as part of the Common Agricultural Policy.
The regulation is aimed at exerting stronger control over EU expenditure, and a very good thing too.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, transparency is necessary in agriculture.
I should like to give a frame of reference: even after the reform of the CAP, at a rate of EUR 300 per hectare, a rationalised business where one worker takes care of 400 hectares - that is, the highest level of rationalisation - receives approximately EUR 120 000 per worker. 80% of farmers do not even receive a tenth of this.
Therefore, we also need to explain what happens to this money.
When the Commission states in its proposal that these payments may have to be graduated, that modulation into the second pillar must be introduced - as here the funds produce better results in terms of workers, the environment - then this is a foretaste of what lies ahead, namely the discussion following the publication of this information.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Many thanks, Mr President.
I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his work.
To begin with, there must be a cap on the subsidies that one person or business can receive - and not EUR 300 000, as Commissioner Fischer Boel recently proposed.
It is also important that, where Member States have poorly functioning control mechanisms, this be made known so that farmers and the organisations representing their interests are able to call those authorities to account if they suffer damage as a result.
The distribution of the Structural Funds should also be made public.
I hope for the broadest possible support from Parliament for this report, as it would make our primary supervisory function, in particular, so much easier.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Thank you, Mr President.
I therefore urge all members to vote against Amendments 4 and 23 from the committee.
The first is to divide farmers into large and small and destroy their unity in the trade unions.
A task-force report in my constituency demonstrates that in that small area beef producers are losing EUR 260 million per annum.
So, when it is publicised that a farmer has received EUR 20 000, it misleads for there is no mention that at the same time he is losing EUR 40 000 or more in his production operation.
Where there are irregularities or illegalities the specified sanctions must be imposed and I think that on this point we are all united and determined.
We want this amendment to make it clear that the measures for suspending monthly payments laid down in Articles 17a and 27a of Regulation No 1290/2005, concerning the funding of the common agricultural policy, will not be implemented before 16 October 2008.
This report is therefore very important for showing clearly who receives aid, and how much, so that it does not come about that the media give the negative example that 200 head of cattle have been on a sixth floor in Rome for years, while several hundred thousand Italian peasants are going honestly about their business.
In any case, I hope that increased transparency will also boost the confidence of the public in our decision-making system and in the notion that we here want to make the right kind of decisions on the financing of agriculture as much as in any other area.
By publication of the beneficiaries of public aid, we will be able to see in detail in what context the division of funds is taking place; and particularly in the countries of what are known as the old and the new EU.
To end, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur. (NL) Mr President, I too would like to thank our fellow Member for this thorough report, which on the face of it concerns very technical rules, budgetary rules.
I can endorse these efforts, but with two brief comments, which are also expressed in the form of amendments.
Finally, I would like to say that the Commission believes that this proposal will also enable it to improve budgetary control.
As you know, those who farm in a manner that sustains protected flora and fauna receive aid from the Community and Member states, within the framework of Natura 2000.
I can say this because that aid for agriculture is differentiated not only in individual regions, but the differences are very clearly to be seen between the old Member States and the new ones.
It is true that we should have extremely good Community control over the expenses of funds, but it is also important to take into consideration the progress made by the relevant institutions in the Member States that are responsible for this control.
The year 2007 is a year of enlargement for the European Union and it would be unjust for the provisions of this regulation to be enforced as of the present, as the European Commission proposes.
Publication of such information on the Internet using standards that ensure comparability of data between individual countries will not only do much to improve the transparency of budget expenditure and the efficiency of the budget control process, it will also shed a bright light on at least two serious problems linked to agricultural expenditure in the EU.
To begin with, a very large proportion of direct subsidies in individual countries goes not to farms but to large concerns like Smithfield, or large landholdings like the Crown Estates of Elizabeth II.
Secondly, there is a very large disproportion between the support per hectare of agricultural land utilised in the old Member States and in the new Member States.
I am sure that MEPs from the Committee on Agriculture will share my view that no cuts can be made in the envisaged budget for the common agricultural policy.
I am very happy that I have an opportunity to participate in this discussion because, when the Commission started discussing the proposal to have more transparency concerning the beneficiaries of EU funds, the information was published only in two countries: in Denmark and in Estonia.
The vote will take place on Thursday 11 October 2007.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) I support the Commission's recommendation for several reasons.
The Internet sites of the paying agencies in the Member States would be connected to the Commission's websites, or to a common network of websites within a Member State.
in writing. - More transparency means less unfounded anti-EU propaganda.
