Financial instability and the impact on the real economy (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on financial instability and the impact on the real economy.
I am sure that the informal meeting of the Ecofin Ministers, to be held on 14 and 15 September, in the Portuguese city of Porto, will, as is customary at those Council meetings, analyse the economic and financial situation of the European Union in greater detail on the basis of much more complete and up-to-date data.
Commission. - (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks there has been serious turbulence in the financial markets, initially caused by the deterioration in the US sub-prime mortgage market.
This deterioration extended to all the financial markets via securities and financial products supported by those mortgages, which, in recent years, have been acquired in large quantities by financial institutions almost throughout the world.
It is still too early to quantify the consequences of this crisis on the real economy.
Given the influence of the US economy on the wider global economy, a slowdown in growth in the United States will have some impact on the rest of the world, in particular, on European economies.
The third factor, which is probably the most important and most difficult to predict, will be the impact on confidence.
I therefore think that this debate is a good opportunity, not only to assess the direct consequences of what has happened on the markets in recent weeks, but also to recall and emphasise the fact that the European economy continues, as the representative of the Council has just said, to have solid foundations, which should not be significantly affected by the recent turbulence and that therefore our economy is in a good position to overcome the uncertainties that have arisen.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the United States sub-prime mortgage crisis and its potential impact in Europe have been occupying our attention in recent weeks.
Sub-prime lending in the European Union is very limited compared to the United States and we have safeguards in place, such as lending rules and limits on loan to value.
Secondly, questions about mortgage lending in the United States inevitably arise.
Thirdly, the transfer of mortgage loans, and their risks, to other parties has been at the centre of this crisis.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, while the Council was not meeting, at least the European Central Bank, was at work and I think can be given some credit for having stemmed the possible further infection in Europe.
So it is incumbent on the authorities both in the US and Europe - and I am glad to see that Mr McCreevy is going to take this particular aspect so seriously - that they all become more conversant with these mechanisms with their structuring and their slicing, how these slices are rated, valued, accounted, with their marketing, with their liquidity and tradability.
The Commission - we have just heard - is expecting a negative impact on growth.
The Socialist group demands that the Commission should learn lessons from the financial market, which has become too opaque and therefore extremely dangerous for the real economy. (Applause) Firstly, I would like to answer Mr Goebbels's question about why the European Central Bank allocated more money than the US Central Bank.
It brings starkly into contrast the role of the credit-ratings agencies and their responsibility, not only with regard to the advice they give, but, in particular, regarding their informing us in a transparent manner as to whether they are representing these funds themselves or whether they are actually giving clear, independent advice.
Mrs Merkel, our President-in-Office at the time of the G8, told us to take measures concerning hedge funds, and nobody listened to her.
I think the crisis in Europe was precipitated by the increase in the European Central Bank's interest rate at the end of the last quarter.
This year a very high percentage of borrowers has stopped paying the instalments owed, placing the entire system in crisis.
According to the weekly publication, Mr Veltroni, Mr Prodi's successor, Ms Cossutta, daughter of one of the most radical and committed communists, Mr Violante, former Prime Minister and among the most well-known arbiters of other people's ethics, as well as Mr Marino, Mr Mancino, Mr Mastella, Mr Casini, Mr Proietti and Mr Baccini purchased houses in Rome with at times as many as 25-30 rooms at a quarter, if not less, of the market price, given these special terms by owners who, strangely enough, are banks and insurance companies.
You have only yourselves to blame, Italian and European citizens, if you have decided to do something other than pursue a career in one of the Italian parties that govern or have governed cities, regions and nations, and which in governing are governed by the banks. (ES) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, I would first of all like to express my thanks for the words of our authority figures regarding maintaining an optimistic stance in the face of the crisis that we are experiencing.
Investors and depositors will not recover confidence in the financial market until they are convinced that evaluations are correct.
This could reduce investment movements or, in some cases, even bring them to a halt.
Approximately 700 billion more mortgages are to be adjusted in the next two years.
The global financial market literally runs around the clock, with millions of transactions that affect us all.
Pietro Lombardo came not by usura, Duccio came not by usura, nor Pier della Francesca, Zuan Bellin' not by usura, nor was 'La Calunnia' painted.
The market has reacted with turbulence in share prices and a tightening of financial conditions.
Financial institutions have already increased their interest rates to their clients, in anticipation of the predicted rises within a few months, taking into account the growth of the economy and the announcements made by the European Central Bank.
What we can draw from that is that it is vital to work closely with the United States and other global markets as we share the same conclusions about the transparency in these markets.
We do not know what exact proportion of this EUR 300 billion consists of bad risks, but EUR 300 billion is no trifling sum: it represents nearly three times the EU's annual budget, and the impact of the current crisis can already be felt.
I should like an honest answer.
We cannot appear before the public at the next elections in 2009 and say: we did have a Commission; it spent five years doing a great job of observing where the problem lay. (DE) Mr President, that was a clear enough message to the Commission.
The volume of outstanding mortgage loans already exceeds US public debt.
US sub-prime mortgage lenders are the main culprits and players in this crisis.
Firstly, there is a need for improved regulation, transparency and cooperation in the financial markets, as has already been mentioned.
Secondly, there is an urgent need to review the relationship between monetary policy and its impact on the real economy, families, investment and employment.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief, particularly since I already stated the Council's basic position on this matter in my first speech.
Both the Council and the Commission mentioned here that all the data available at the moment indicate that we have achieved our economic and financial objectives: deficits, economic growth and employment too are on the increase.
Commission. - (ES) Mr President, with regard to the impact on the real economy of the turbulence, or the crisis, if that is what you wish to call it, in the financial markets in recent weeks, I repeat that according to our initial estimates - we will be publishing forecasts on Tuesday - but also according to opinions that are being made public by other bodies and public and private institutions, the impact of this turbulence on economic activity, economic growth and employment in European economies in 2007 will be felt, but it will be very slight.
A large proportion of the results for 2007 are already guaranteed by the results produced in the first two quarters, by the information available on what is happening in our economies in this third quarter and by the positive inertia of economic recovery based on the good, solid foundations that we inherited from 2006.
In our forecasts in May the growth rates for 2008 were already affected by a maturing of the economic cycle and by the impact of the decisions adopted on monetary policy by the central banks.
We need to hope that, insofar as many of the factors that have been encouraging the turbulence of recent weeks are related to confidence, if we recover confidence and if we all contribute to a rigorous vision and diagnosis of the situation in order to improve confidence, or to consolidate confidence, the 2008 results will be better or less concerning than some imagine they will be.
