President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, honourable Members, recent days have seen a disturbing increase in violence in the Middle East, where conflict between Palestinian factions in the Gaza Strip has cost over 50 people their lives.
It is also from the Gaza Strip that over 150 Kassam missiles have been fired at Israeli towns over the past week, killing one Israeli woman yesterday evening.
Since 18 March, Palestine has been ruled by a new government of national unity, enjoying the support and confidence of 83 out of 86 members of parliament - an overwhelming majority including all those belonging to Hamas and Fatah.
Despite this, the European Union has maintained its humanitarian aid for the Palestinians.
It follows that President Abbas deserves our full support.
Having enjoyed initial successes, our particular concern is now that the momentum achieved be maintained, and what this means for us is that we have to apply ourselves with still greater dedication to helping to get all interested parties to make a determined contribution to the Middle Eastern peace process.
I note a failure on the part of the Palestinians to actually make the renunciation of violence happen, and also a lack of commitment to the release of the Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit.
The events of the last three days in Lebanon, with significant loss of life in such a short time - almost 100 dead - are a startling reminder of the need to work on a regional solution to this conflict.
Israeli-led air strikes in retaliation then caused the death of 35 Palestinians, so this vicious cycle has started again.
During my recent meeting with the Palestinian Foreign Affairs Minister, Ziad Abu Amr, we discussed the fragile situation of the national unity government, especially as concerns security, but also the budget.
President Abbas has requested all our backing, as his political survival may depend on its success.
Since the establishment of the TIM last June, we have already transferred over EUR 300 million through this mechanism.
I hope that this meeting will respond to the efforts of the Arab League, which could relaunch the progress on all tracks of the peace process, but I am also realistic and I understand what the German Presidency has said, that we should at least uphold the situation.
The Commissioner has reminded us that the High Representative, Javier Solana, is currently in the region.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (IT) Madam President, Mr Gloser, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, ladies and gentlemen, death and violence have returned to Gaza, Lebanon and Israel.
The Israelis have not quite released the 10 000 prisoners, many of them held without charge or trial.
Just two weeks ago our delegation heard Prime Minister Haniyeh not only convince us in a way that satisfied us all that the unity government was determined to meet the Quartet's three principles, and believed it was doing so, but also that it would meet with members of the Quartet without reservation or precondition at any time to try to sort out these differences.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Gloser, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the Middle East poses a significant and ongoing challenge not only for the countries of the region, but also for the wider world.
This must have a serious impact on relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority.
You mention the detention of soldier Shalit - and of course he should be released - but you did not even mention the 41 members of the Palestinian Legislative Council who are still detained by Israel; you did not even mention the detention of 10 000 Palestinian political prisoners held by Israel, many without trial.
The alternative will be chaos and violence on an unimaginable scale, the whole region will become destabilised and there will be even more rapid growth of extremism across the Middle East.
The political and economic embargo needs to be lifted immediately.
Otherwise chaos will ensue and the European Union will bear its share of the responsibility for it.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (FR) Madam President, sadly, the situation in Palestine confirms what the sovereigntists have been saying on the subject of the Middle East conflict for a very long time now, namely that it would be wrong to believe that this conflict can be summed up as a straightforward confrontation between Palestinians and Israelis, and even less between Muslims and Jews.
The true division, which is becoming increasingly wide, is between, on the one side, the advocates of conciliation, which not only several Israeli statesmen - and I cannot omit to mention the glorious name of Yitzhak Rabin - but also Palestinian statesmen, such as Yasser Arafat and Mahmoud Abbas, have shown themselves to be, and, on the other side, the fanatics, both Muslim fanatics and fanatics of the Greater Israel, whose connivances are, moreover, perfectly clear, since we know that Palestinian extremist movements have been backed, and even funded, by certain Israeli radicals.
The only European voice that showed any unity was that of the Venice declaration, in June 1980, in which the Europeans stated that they were in favour of the creation of a Palestinian State.
Our divisions have increased, however, and Europe can now once again speak with one voice only when it has nothing to say.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Madam President, anyone who has followed the events in the Middle East in recent days can do no other than be dispirited.
Last Wednesday in the Conference of Presidents of our Parliament, I had the honour of attending a meeting with Amr Moussa, Secretary-General of the Arab League, and the Foreign Affairs Minister of the Palestinian Authority.
What we are witnessing is a veritable civil war in Palestine between Fatah and Hamas, and the particularly aggressive actions of Hamas show us that the pursuit of democracy and a democratic mandate has done nothing to tame or to temper their adherence to terror.
I fear that, as long as Fatah and Hamas can tout both gun and ballot, democracy and the peace that it can bring will not prevail in this troubled and failed entity that is Gaza.
Let me say at the outset that all of us condemn terrorism wherever it occurs.
What is evident is that the attempt is again being made to distract attention from the in-fighting between the Palestinians themselves, that is to say between Hamas and Fatah, with fighting in which 55 Palestinians have died, killed by Palestinian hands.
Hamas has again won itself time and can put off to another day the political concessions that have to be made.
Perhaps the events of September 11 would not have taken place if the United States had persevered in its previous role of impartial guardian of law and justice the world over. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, having said, in our last debate, which followed the Hamas victory, that Europe must never again allow the existence of Israel to be jeopardised, it is with all the greater anguish and sadness that I return from travelling through Palestine.
All I can say to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, is that nobody can live under such circumstances.
Politicians always find the analysis of military measures difficult, but one fundamental conviction derived from my trip that I would like to share with you is that this occupation regime also serves other purposes: quite obviously, and undeniably, the protection of illegal settlements and the links between them.
The army's response is to a group of terrorists, who should indeed be confronted, but once again it is the Palestinian people that is paying.
It is our duty and our responsibility to recognise our failure as international communities, political parties and movements: after forty years the Israeli military occupation continues and the wall is stealing water and land from the future Palestinian State.
Since 1980 we have been talking about two peoples and two States: one State exists, but the other does not.
The solution is a political one: stop the military occupation and the expansion of settlements, recognise the Palestinian Government of national unity, and work to achieve Palestinian unity and not division.
We must show that the European Union believes in international legality and says so to Israel, which is continually infringing it.
We are blowing the final whistle when the score is 90 - 10.
When the umpire blows his final whistle when the score is 50 - 50, he leaves the pitch with his head held high.
When he blows his final whistle when the score is 60 - 40, the game is over, but when he blows his final whistle when the score is 90 - 10, all hell breaks out both on the terraces and on the pitch.
We therefore are responsible for this hell, because we blew our final whistle when the score was 90 - 10.
So clearly this Palestinian Authority unity government does not fulfil the Quartet criteria and the EU cannot lift the ban on Hamas as a terrorist organisation or directly fund the Palestinian Authority at present, relying instead on the TIM for delivery of humanitarian aid which now totals over EUR 500 million yearly and has actually risen during the last three years.
The Israelis all recognise the damage to Israel's economy and society of the continuing violence after the recent spate of over 100 Qassam missiles launched by Hamas at civilian areas.
Nothing else is worthy of being taken seriously. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Presidency and the Commission for being present.
In Article 7 it mentions an Islamic world order and the destruction of all Jews.
Cooperation with Hamas would make the EU morally responsible for a peace process leading to the elimination of Israel.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, honourable Members, I ask your understanding for the fact that I am able, at the moment, to make only a few brief comments, as I have a meeting with your Committee on Foreign Affairs at 6.00 p.m., when I will be reviewing and evaluating the last meeting of the General Affairs and Foreign Relations Council.
The High Representative, who is currently in Beirut, many kilometres to the north, knows that this is not just about Palestine and Israel, but also about the issue of Lebanon's security and its right to self-determination.
I would like to urge that we should go beyond just talking and try to get some initiatives off the ground to the end not only that there may be a dialogue between Israel and the Palestinians, but also that financial aid be given and that we may - as I have just again looked up - ask Israel to facilitate freedom of movement for the Palestinians, so that they may no longer be penned in in the way that they currently are, in a situation with which nobody can be satisfied.
I crave the House's indulgence, but I really must now leave your debate. (CS) Madam President, Commissioner, thank you for staying here with us today.
It is only by adopting the right position and having a clearly-stated standpoint that we will be able genuinely to provide humanitarian aid and, most importantly, to support the emergence of a viable, democratic Palestinian state. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, as previous speakers have mentioned, Parliament was in Palestine at the beginning of the month.
It is a wall that has turned Gaza into the best-known open prison in the world.
Let us show the world once again that peace can only be achieved by extending our hand to those who need it and by eliminating their despair. (FI) Madam President, first I wish to say that, hearing this debate, I have felt that the overall picture is somewhat limited.
We cannot acknowledge them: as Europeans we have to adhere to our democratic values. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following our visit to the West Bank and Gaza in early May, I can do no more than conclude that we are further away from a structural solution than ever, despite the agreement that was struck 40 years ago.
Finally, Commissioner, you claim that all instruments are being used to force Israel to redirect those taxes to the Palestinians.
It is no longer acceptable to refuse to support politically and financially, and with no exclusions, a Palestinian Government of national unity that we have advocated passionately and that, if we are to believe the Palestinian Foreign Minister, whom we received recently, firstly, respects political pluralism, secondly, does not question the existence of the Israeli State, thirdly, calls for the recognition of a Palestinian State within the 1967 borders, and fourthly, renews its commitment to the UN and Arab resolutions, particularly on the refugee issue.
The first is if the country concerned simply does not require our aid.
The reasons why we should deny support have nothing to do with the chaos in the Palestinian Authority, or with the uncertainty about how long the national unity government is likely to be able to govern.
They have nothing to do either with the fact that 50 Palestinians were killed last week in clashes between Hamas and Fatah, nor do they have anything to do with the fact that children's television broadcasts by the Al-Aksa station call on Palestinian children to help destroy Israel and take part in the war.
It seems incredible that the Council fails to recognise that the creation of a government of national unity in Palestine was a major political risk both for Fatah and Hamas.
Failure to cooperate with the Palestinian Government does nothing to end the cycle of violence or tackle the grave humanitarian crisis that so many of my colleagues have spoken eloquently about this afternoon.
Failure to cooperate with the Palestinian Government also does nothing to encourage Israel to end its financial and military assaults on Palestine.
The release of Corporal Shalit and Alan Johnston and the 40 Palestinian legislators would create much-needed goodwill.
The shelling of the town of Sderot from the Gaza Strip and retaliation from the Israeli side also continues.
But you have to understand that, over the last 10 years, the European Union has really tried to play an important role for the peace process - not in order to enhance the conflict but in order to make peace, or help to make peace.
It really is the Council, not the Commission, that can recognise the Government - there are 27 Member States.
What we have as an instrument is a continuous political dialogue where all the parties work with all the parties, but it is true that there are other members of the Quartet too, for instance the United States of America, as has been mentioned.
Over the last months, we have seen a much greater effort on the part of the USA, particularly from Condoleezza Rice.
A political solution can never be brought about by violence.
I think the situation is very dramatic, and I hope that the Council understands that we have to engage in order to help this National Unity Government achieve the right platform to continue with the peace process and with the talks on the political horizon.
An honourable Member mentioned that we have extended our mission monitoring the Rafah border crossing.
This has been asked for by Salam Fayad, so we are working with them.
I said we will also look at what we can then perhaps fund through the TIM as regards their particular desires, so not only those things that we have been funding up till now in order to help the population to survive, but to go further.
This is what I can offer you in this delicate and difficult situation.
