MEDA and financial support to Palestine - evaluation, implementation and control (debate) The next item is the report by Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on MEDA and financial support to Palestine - evaluation, implementation and control.
The tragic situation in the Palestinian territories is getting worse and developments are sounding the alarm for a deterioration in the situation and calling on us to take stock of our actions and become aware of our responsibilities for the future.
I should like to remind the House that annual commitments under MEDA ΙΙ, to which most of our report is devoted, varied between EUR 569 million in 2000 and EUR 697 million in 2004.
We might urge the European Commission to take account in future activities of the fact that there is a steady increase in the number of projects and programmes, that there is an even larger share of budget support in the total programme, that the role played by our offices and the apportionment of responsibilities at local level has been judged satisfactory and important and must be increased and that cooperation with the local authorities played a role and we must enhance this.
We must also do whatever we can to enhance cooperation between the Mediterranean countries (South-South partners) in order to achieve the much sought-after objective of regional cooperation and integration.
The question of funding for Palestine is an important part of our report and was the subject of increased interest on the part of our honourable friends.
From 1994 to 2006 the Commission provided about EUR 2 300 million to the Palestinian people.
I wish to state that our political group supports our undertaking and I believe that I also have the support of the rest of the House on this new paragraph. (Applause) President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, ladies and gentlemen, let me express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur.
Let me now move on to the part of the report that deals with financial assistance for the Palestinians.
The violent clashes between Fatah and the radical Islamist movement Hamas in the past week have claimed more than 100 lives and left many people with serious injuries.
The deal that was struck between the Palestinian factions with Saudi Arabian help in Mecca in February has thus collapsed, and the involvement of Hamas in the government of the country has been ended.
The humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip, which was difficult enough before, has further deteriorated.
The introduction by the European Union of the temporary international funding mechanism TIM in June 2006 has played a significant part in meeting the most urgent needs of the beleaguered Palestinian population.
The European Union has also made repeated calls to this effect, most recently in the conclusions adopted by the General Affairs Council at its meeting on 18 June.
I shall speak first about the main findings before turning to the current situation in the Palestinian Territories and our response to that.
Firstly, with regard to the performance of MEDA over the last 10 years, I am pleased about Parliament's positive appreciation of how this programme has contributed to realising the objectives of the Barcelona Declaration.
I undertake to continue the efforts of the Commission in this regard, and we have already launched a final evaluation of the MEDA Regulation.
The results should be available in early 2008.
All our efforts need to be seen in the context of the ongoing and progressive management improvements which have been introduced by the Commission since 2001.
Turning to the current situation in the Palestinian Territories, we are more than ever at a critical juncture.
It has already been said that the EU will resume normal relations with this government immediately.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - (FR) Mr President, this excellent report by Mrs Kratsa, whom I thank for her work, contains two important statements.
Firstly, the aid given to Palestine since 2003 has been well managed and without fraud.
Secondly, the temporary aid mechanism put in place after the sanctions in 2006 against the Hamas government has not, alas, despite the sums invested, succeeded in preventing a humanitarian tragedy with an increase in infant mortality, the appearance of new diseases and extreme poverty in the occupied territories.
The European Union has been responsible for its policy in the Middle East since January 2006.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, Mrs De Keyser, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the report by Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou on the European Court of Auditors' report on MEDA, the European programme on the countries of the Southern Mediterranean.
I should also like to make a sincere, fraternal call to the Israeli and Egyptian authorities to make as much effort as possible to work together with international forces and with the new Palestinian Government appointed by President Abbas to rescue the Palestinians escaping persecution in Gaza, which has already cost the lives of many Gaza inhabitants.
After 40 years of brutal occupation and constant humiliation by the Israeli authorities, coupled with the world's refusal world to act in accordance with its own democratic norms and to recognise the democratic choice of Palestinians, it is not surprising that Palestine is undergoing this crisis now.
We must do what we can to help restore law and order, which is just as important to the Palestinian people at present as humanitarian aid. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union has dedicated a lot of time, effort and budgetary aid to cooperation amongst the countries of the Mediterranean.
The two MEDA programmes add up to more than EUR 7 000 million in commitments and more than EUR 600 million per year.
Palestine has always been controversial from a budgetary point of view; it is the aspect of the MEDA programme that creates most conflict.
I therefore share this Parliament's practically unanimous view and we are entirely in agreement with this vote of confidence in the Palestinian Government.
The continuation of the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, however, will play a major part in consolidating this Euro-Mediterranean dialogue.
Mr President, it is highly important to recognise that there is an important connection between MEDA and the new Neighbourhood Policy.
The European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument is a special instrument which builds on MEDA as regards programming and implementation.
In response to the Member who mentioned micro-credits, we want to assist in jumpstarting the economy and, for that reason, we are paying arrears to the entrepreneurs from the EUR 22 million that was a reserve programme.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 21 June 2007.
