&#160;&#160; Mr President, on a point of order, I want to report to Parliament that at the September part-session this Parliament passed a report on the Lloyd's petitions, setting a deadline of 15&#160;November for the Commission to provide information to Parliament about its regulation of Lloyd's of London between 1978 and 2001.
I have to report that by 15&#160;November no such communication had been received from the Commission.
Child labour still takes place, in Portugal too, where it is estimated that over 4% of children work in various sectors, due to the precarious economic situation of many families.
That requirement is particularly relevant for those subsidies which have been financed from lines whose position in the budgetary structure the so-called A-part of the budget meant that they could be assimilated into administrative expenditure and consequently be incurred without a clear legal basis.
The modification of the budgetary structure introduced in the new Financial Regulation has brought to an end this assimilation of administrative expenditure, meaning that a legal basis for the subsidies in question is now required.
It is this new obligation which led the Commission in May 2003 to present seven proposals for new legal bases.
With Parliament’s opinion it should now be possible to have the decision in force in 2004 and following a call for proposals, to go ahead with the selection of beneficiaries for operating grants for next year.
The legal base presented today, together with the six other proposals covering grants, is important because it is a direct consequence of the innovations concerning grants in the new Financial Regulation and is firmly anchored in the basic principles of transparency and equal treatment for potential beneficiaries.
One point which should be mentioned is the need to ensure coherence between the proposed Council decision and the budget.
In the Preliminary Draft Budget the Commission proposed one budget line to regroup amounts which, in the 2003 budget, are distributed over four lines in Chapter A 30.
The future legal base for this single line, as required by the new Financial Regulation, is the proposed decision which is before the House today.
This decision provides for the selection of beneficiaries following a call for proposals in accordance with the principles of transparency and equal treatment.
The Commission's proposal before the House seeks to ensure harmonious transition from the old system to the new arrangements and continuity in the activities being supported.
We have endeavoured to produce a text which, to a large extent, extends the 2003 implementation procedures while incorporating the requirements of the new Financial Regulation in terms of sound financial management of public funds.
This proposal for a legal basis should therefore be considered a technical adjustment.
I would consequently invite honourable Members not to distance themselves too much from the Commission's proposals and to do their utmost to ensure that this legal basis is adopted as quickly as possible.
In fact, as from 1 January 2004, in the absence of this legal basis, it would quite simply not be possible for us to provide financial support to all the organisations which participate actively in the promotion of European citizenship.
While recalling the need to apply the new Financial Regulation, the Commission sees no objection to Amendment 45 on the simplification of administrative procedures.
The same holds true for Amendment 49 on the dissemination and availability of results.
Since the amendment does not alter the substance of the Commission proposal, we can accept the proposal to specify that the budgetary appropriations scheduled after 2006 are subject to an agreement of the budgetary authority on the financial perspective beyond 2006.
However, the Commission is willing to accept the same duration for all seven proposals in the package until 2006 if that helps to find a compromise for all the proposals with a view to having them adopted in time for implementing the budget in 2004.
As this proposal has to be seen in conjunction with the other proposals in the package, the amendments on 'earmarking' and the possibility of an executive agency also have to be settled in the broader context.
The Commission can also partially accept Amendment 28.
The same applies to Amendments 20, 21, 22, 29 and 30, which the Commission rejects.
However, it is our intention to guarantee the continuity of the activities already supported by the Commission in the past, so we have to refuse Amendments 14, 40, 41, 42 and 43, with a view to reaching a unanimous position on our proposal in the Council.
Amendments 6 and 33, concerning the European Movement, are rejected as well as Amendments 32, 34, 35, 36 and 37, which add new organisations to the list of beneficiaries.
With a view to ensuring the continuity of funding currently allocated, the Commission does not consider it appropriate to open a discussion on the list of organisations contained in Part 1.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, we intend to launch a call for proposals which will be open to all organisations active in this area.
This would be a reasonable compromise since it would be technically impossible, under the procedures laid down in the Financial Regulation, to launch a call for proposals after the adoption of this legal base which would still allow for financing as from the beginning of 2004.
We consider, however, that this approach should be restricted to 2004 and the operating rules should be laid down in the Annex rather than in the text of the programme.
Therefore, for technical reasons, the Commission cannot accept that part of Amendment 23 relating to Group 1.
The part of the amendment relating to Group 2 and aiming at the incorporation of organisations having a different perspective of the policies of the Union is considered quite superfluous, and therefore cannot be accepted.
On the possible involvement of an executive agency for the management of part of the programme, particularly in relation to management of the large number of projects in the town-twinning part of the programme, the Commission emphasises that such an approach conforms to Article 55 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities.
Subject to the conclusions of a cost-benefit study currently under preparation by an external consultant, the Commission could propose that such an agency should be partly involved in the management of this programme.
Before reaching a final decision, the Commission will submit this proposal to the Executive Agency Committee of the Council.
Amendment 5 which refers to the draft Constitution is premature since it may still be modified.
The information of national parliaments, as suggested in Amendment 27, is not appropriate and the Commission considers that any evaluation of the programme should be based on a two-year reference period and therefore rejects Amendment 26.
If the system is to be put back on track at the beginning of 2004, an agreement at this stage in the procedure will be decisive as I know honourable Members fully understand.
This relates to the decision of Parliament and Council establishing a Community programme to promote organisations active at EU level in the field of equality between women and men.
I am pleased that progress has already been made in Council and in Parliament on this basic act which is designed to provide a legal base for continuing funding support for organisations active at EU level in promoting gender equality.
The Commission proposed a duration of two years 2004 and 2005 because it will include this topic in the overall reflections on the future of the equality strategy after 2005.
As a consequence, the Commission does not accept Amendments 6 and 7 on degressivity, Amendment 9 on increase in the financial framework, or Amendment 10 on budgetary authority agreement post-2006.
Finally, the Commission cannot accept Amendment 20 because it would impinge on the Commission's role in executing the programme.
To sum up, the Commission can accept Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 and it rejects Amendments 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 19 and 20 for the reasons I have given.
A dialogue between cultures and civilisations is, now more than ever, of crucial importance when it comes to guaranteeing peace and stability in the world.
That is the special contribution and addition that I, in my capacity as rapporteur, wanted to make to the report on establishing a Community action programme for bodies promoting reciprocal understanding of relations between the European Union and certain non-industrialised regions in the world, a report adopted unanimously by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on 4&#160;November 2003.
The centre, institute or network specialising in the analysis of relations between the European Union and certain regions helps promote dialogue between cultures and civilisations.
It is a dialogue that is fundamental and absolutely crucial on this earth and in this world that it is our common responsibility to manage and care for.
Dialogue between cultures and civilisations must promote the generally applicable and universal value of human freedoms and rights and the defence of human dignity.
This common basis of values we possess and this shared view of human beings must also operate as a guarantee of respect for different cultures and civilisations.
The general objective of this programme shall be to support the activities of these bodies.
The activities supported must contribute to increasing understanding and dialogue between the European Union, the regions covered by the ALA, MEDA, TACIS and CARDS Regulations and the candidate countries.
Here too, we in the European Parliament wish to add words to the effect that the activities must also – and I emphasise this – contribute to reinforcing social, cultural and human partnership and meeting places.
Publication of the Commission’s evaluation report is accordingly to be moved forward to 31&#160;December 2007, and the appropriations after the year 2006 are subject to an agreement of the budgetary authority on the financial perspective beyond 2006.
These activities should contribute both to political cooperation and to developing genuine partnership between people.
In the Council of Ministers, the governments of the Member States said that they attach great importance to these activities and expressed their desire to increase reciprocal knowledge on the part of the EU and partners receiving assistance, as well as to find a legal basis within the EU for doing this.
The dialogue and the aid must be supported by bodies and organisations specialising in relations between the EU and the regions concerned.
Life and the world do not end at the external borders of the Member States or the European Union.
That is why dialogue between civilisations and cultures must be strengthened. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the good cooperation over the recent weeks; I would particularly like to thank the secretariat of our Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs for their support, without which my report could not have been processed on time.
I have come to share the view of many Members that we have to have a serious dialogue with the Commission, and that this will happen after 2004.
Thus, for us, the objective of the present programme must be the facility for the European Women's Lobby to continue its work and, at the same time, the facility for other women's organisations to function and develop integrated activities within the general framework of equality between men and women.
That is why we are calling in our amendments for funding to be directed not at special actions which cannot guarantee the permanence or standard of the programmes or the viability of organisations, but at funding operations, as is the case with the European Women's Lobby.
Besides, we should not forget that special, specific actions, as proposed in the Commission draft, can be funded under other programmes or within the framework of Community policies with the annual priorities – equal pay, reconciling work and family life, participation in decision-making, changing stereotypes – every year there is this facility for women's organisations.
As far as the period of application of the programme is concerned, I share your opinion, Commissioner, that it should apply until 2006, precisely because we cannot forecast requirements as of now, especially once the new countries join.
Especially at a time when the European Women's Lobby has other priorities within the framework of funding.
We cannot ask for 90% cofinancing for one organisation, such as the Lobby, which has preferential treatment, as I have said, such as funding for operations without submitting invitations for expressions of interest, and to ask for 80% from other organisations which do not have permanent funding and are selected following invitations for expressions of interest.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, society is developing.
They are all aimed at providing a legal basis for the various subsidies in the former lines known as A-30, and on Monday 24&#160;November we will hold a conciliation meeting with the Council, in which we will try to reach a consensus which allows us to approve all of these proposals before the end of this year, so that they may be executed in 2004.
In fact, the most serious problem we are facing now is ensuring that the appropriations intended for these subsidies can be executed during next year.
I would therefore address the European Commission, which, in its communication to the Council and European Parliament, when commenting on the proposals, spoke of transitional measures in the event that the basic instruments are not approved before the end of this year.
It appears that the transitional measure in question consists of extending the time limit for approval until the end of January 2004, which in truth does not solve the problem, because both Commissioner Schreyer and Commissioner Reding have said very explicitly that, if the legal bases have not been approved before the end of January, the appropriations will not be able to be executed.
The pre-allocation relates to the proposal on culture and citizenship, and Parliament wishes to maintain its right to this prerogative, and this is something it is going to defend before the Council.
And the Commission should not tell me that its proposals already provide for pre-allocation; the Commission is completely convinced and knows that, in any event, we were going to have the stumbling block with the Council.
Mr Kinnock, I am very sorry that the Commission is taking no notice of my appeals, but I have been surprised and irritated to see that the Commission published in the Official Journal of the European Union of 18&#160;November, that is to say, the day before yesterday, the invitation for proposals for 2004 for organisations which promote mutual understanding in relations between the European Union and certain non-industrialised regions of the world, in other words the Sacrédeus report, which we are going to vote on today from 12 noon.
It seems to be very serious that the Commission has allowed this invitation to be published before Parliament has approved its position and, naturally, before the Council has adopted its decision.
As has already been pointed out, this means proposing legal bases for these subsidies which are currently in part A, as in the case of the report we are dealing with.
This proposal includes ten budget lines which I am not going to repeat and whose objective is to stimulate the bodies defined in the different budgetary lines so that they may contribute to the promotion of active and participatory citizenship.
This is the common objective of these subsidies, that is, to enhance the role of these organisations and to promote actions which in turn strengthen the European message.
But we represent the interests of the citizens and this report, together with another establishing a Community action programme for the promotion of bodies active at European level in the fields of culture, youth, education and training, are of key importance in terms of the European Union's credibility, and by means of them it is possible to communicate the fundamental message of our work, which is to build Europe with the participation of the citizens.
Some reports that this Parliament has adopted clearly underline the need to strengthen and enhance the idea of European citizenship which, to judge by the levels of participation in the elections to this Parliament, needs to be promoted as a matter of urgency.
Unjustifiable delays in transferring grants often compromise the effectiveness of the actions, damage the European Union’s image and create difficulties for the organisations which, in good faith, work together with us on disseminating this ideal.
For all of these reasons, taking into account the amendments that we tabled, we will vote in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Sacrédeus report as presented to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, was adopted unanimously without amendments.
My group warmly welcomed this report, which would have put an end to the shameful lack of transparency with which grants had been awarded to various bodies in the world over many years.
Meanwhile, however, in the context of the budgetary procedure for 2004, Parliament has once again pronounced itself in favour of earmarking funds for various bodies that are dear to some of the Members of this House.
In reality, however, the reports are much more than just a question of formally getting the legal basis right.
In reality, it is a question of something that is extremely political: firstly, a power struggle between the EU institutions and, secondly, our relations with people in the European democracy within and outside Europe.
Excuse me, but I do not think that the Commission has produced a particularly good explanation, for everything that has been said about the candidate countries can justifiably be said about all three programmes.
The first of these is concerned, as the rapporteur also emphasised in the report itself, with an incredibly important subject, that of the EU’s relations with other countries, and we can see on a day-to-day basis that it is becoming more and more important to increase this understanding of the fact that there exist cultures other than the specifically mainstreamed culture that is most widespread in Europe.
In that context, I simply ask myself whether this programme would enable the candidate countries in actual fact to join on the basis of those criteria.
I should like to ask the Commissioner responsible to look into this, because we know that the candidate countries basically use their development aid to benefit neighbouring countries rather than countries farther away.
There are therefore also a number of us who are in actual fact voting in favour of extending the programme and in favour of various other amendments that I had heard the Commission had rejected but for which we nonetheless hope a majority can be created. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, without wishing to engage in polemics with our rapporteur, I must emphasise that European lobbies, in my view, are an excellent source of information and coordination on a number of issues that arise in the countries of the European Union.
For any association to work properly, it has to know where it is going, and it must be able to organise itself.
This is why I strongly emphasise how important it is that we do not finance a particular event organised by an association or group of associations; on the contrary, we should use our funds to ensure that these associations operate in favourable conditions.
Let me add that opening up to the new Member States and to third countries is also of fundamental importance in this context.
I have therefore seen us deal with reports on women’s health, on women and sport, on the information society and on violence against women.
All of these reports demonstrate the need for us to take an interest in the development of the funding of associations, because each of these new areas on which we are now focusing is also undergoing development.
I do not understand how the Commission can be so reticent, particularly with regard to the media, a sector in which we certainly need the associations and their support in order to combat all forms of discrimination. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as you know, numerous opinion polls have revealed how remote Europe is from its people and how much remains to be done to bridge that gap.
Community initiatives designed to promote European citizenship do exist, but of course they are still inadequate.
The decision to establish a five-year programme of subsidies to promote active European citizenship is a good thing.
If this assertion were true, such a situation would be unacceptable.
On the other hand, while the social dimension is accentuated, for which we thank our rapporteur, we cannot choose to disregard the political dimension, which is indispensable if the present democratic deficit is to be reduced.
The report specifies that citizenship of the European Union complements and broadens national citizenship through the recognition of common rights.
We want our old Europe to draw inspiration from this injection of fresh impetus in order to create a new definition of European citizenship, based on residence. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to feel that European citizenship has been consolidated through a set of events such as the introduction of the euro or the elimination of the Community's internal borders.
The structures created by the Community with the intention of promoting this European citizenship receive Community funding and might even have carried out work but do not reach the majority of the citizens.
Two years on, even though this was one of the areas strategically identified in the resolution we adopted, highlighting the need for a major awareness-raising campaign, the situation remains more or less the same, due to the shortcomings of the Commission and to the lack of interest of the Member States.
This is one way of dispelling the idea that Europe is only for eurocrats and is far removed from the citizens, letting them know that this Europe works for all of us directly on a day-to-day basis and also offering citizens real participation at the social and political levels.
The Community institutions are not entirely blameless and can improve their performance by simplifying procedures for submitting applications for Community funds earmarked for civic promotion, by promoting easy access to documents through user-friendly systems, by strengthening the intermediate structures between institutions and citizens, by really listening and genuinely opening up.
This is furthermore the right time to encourage citizens’ participation in the construction of the European Union.
Let us, then, give a commitment to active European citizenship. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Community action programme to promote active European citizenship uses a pretentious name to camouflage a nefarious scheme to legitimise illegal subsidies granted by the Commission to its cronies.
Now, following observations made by the Court of Auditors – and oh, how justified they were – the new Financial Regulation that entered into force in 2002 requires the specification of a legal basis – which, of course, does not exist.
Firstly, even if a legal basis were provided now, what would be done about the subsidies that have been paid in the past without any legal basis?
Thirdly, the subsidised associations have a European mission, at least as defined by the Commission.
Fifthly, the list of eligible associations contained in the report reveals a motley assortment of organisations, many of which have nothing to do with European citizenship, such as the European Council on Refugees and Exiles.
My sixth and final point is that the only legal basis which anyone was able to find for this programme was Article 308 of the Treaty Establishing the European Union, the selfsame wretched article that we have often tried to have repealed, because it provides the Community with scope to stretch the limits of its powers.
It is not manufactured with the aid of subsidies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commission has presented a felicitous initiative to our Parliament under the codecision procedure, an initiative that should lead to a decision establishing a Community action programme to promote organisations active at the European level in the field of equality between men and women.
The Commission has clearly understood that, in this as in all other domains, monopolies are unhealthy.
I do not wish to question the payment of an operating grant to the EWL, which is an established subsidy, but other organisations that are active at the European level in the struggle against all forms of discrimination, particularly discrimination on grounds of sex, should be able to benefit from financial support in the framework of the aforementioned appropriation in the form of operating subsidies designed to guarantee the continuity of their activities.
Since the draft programme was totally distorted, Mrs Kratsa and other members of my group voted against it.
We know that citizenship of the Union should serve to involve more and more of the people of the Member States in the common project for European integration.
It is absolutely essential that the public is better informed about what the European Union is doing to harmonise national policies and what it will be doing in the context of enlargement.
Let me declare most solemnly here that the European Parliament has tried to deal with the financial threats facing the Info-Points and that a solution must be found quickly.
The concept of European citizenship must therefore be applied in all its dimensions: political, administrative, judicial, social and economic.
We must therefore continue to work towards the removal of those obstacles – and they do still exist – which are preventing the people of our countries from exercising their rights as European citizens.
Public involvement in the creation of the draft European constitution is another step in this direction.
It will obviously be even more difficult to communicate with the citizens of Europe when the population of the Union rises to almost 500 million from the present figure of 370 million, but that is precisely what we must do, using all the facilities that will enable us to conduct and enhance that dialogue.
The liberal challenge regarding gender equality consists in ensuring that women are given more power over their own lives.
Even I as a liberal can say that it is a question of identifying structures that present obstacles to women being given the same opportunities as men.
Equality between women and men has of course been one of the EU’s basic principles since the Treaty of Rome.
That principle was reinforced in the Treaty of Amsterdam and has gradually gained in prominence.
It is therefore clear that we especially welcome this action programme and the legal basis that give the women’s organisations financial opportunities to do better work.
A two-year aid programme does not provide financial security for any organisation.
Another reason for supporting the action programme, which extends to 2008, is that we must be able to guarantee that organisations in our new Member States are also given an opportunity to seek aid within this programme.
It must not be the case that, through these financial programmes partly aimed at making us more European, the European Union is associated with red tape, bureaucracy and tardiness, which are precisely what people do associate it with.
Secondly, I should like to highlight the importance of a Community action programme to promote organisations active at European level in the field of equality between men and women, in activities as important as integrating the gender perspective into education, sport, health, social protection, cooperation with women’s associations in third countries, without detracting from the important work of the European Women’s Lobby.
We must always remember that the aim of the programme in question is to support women’s organisations whose primary task is to promote, monitor and publicise Community actions designed for women, with the aim of achieving gender equality.
In actual fact, what is at stake are crucial issues; firstly, the reference to the European Women’s Lobby in the text that is annexed and not in the legislative part; secondly, the intention to award grants for organisations’ operational needs and not for specific actions; thirdly, co-financing and degressivity rates must be identical both for the European Women’s Lobby and for other organisations operating at European level.
We would certainly not deny the fundamental role of the European Women’s Lobby, but the work of other organisations that share these aims and which undertake their own activities that do not receive financial support also needs to be recognised.
Consequently, in order to ensure equal opportunities for all of these organisations, their names must be given only in the annex.
Lastly, in contrast to the Commission proposals, standard criteria must be adopted for the various organisations as regards co-financing and degressivity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to welcome the Commission's initiative to establish this Community action programme and I would also like to congratulate Parliament, which in a very short time has had to study and draw up its amendments, on its work.
I would like to use this speech to defend the fundamental role of women’s organisations in the promotion of the European Union’s equal opportunities policy.
Without them, without women’s organisations, it would have been very difficult to implement and extend the progress made in the promotion of women’s rights.
It would also have been very difficult to diagnose the real situation of women in the different countries of the European Union.
The progress made by the women’s movement stems from the solid work of their organisations.
Consequently, I believe that establishing a Community programme to support and promote these organisations is fundamental.
The European Women’s Lobby is a great organisation made up of many others.
That is to say, the European Women’s Lobby is a great umbrella organisation containing thousands of women’s organisations, hundreds and thousands of women who work on a daily basis in favour of women’s rights.
We must vote in favour of equal treatment between men and women but also between the European Women's Lobby EWL and other women's associations.
It is not equal treatment when one organisation can receive funding without needing to make a proposal to the Commission, and yet other organisations must compete against many other worthwhile proposals.
These organisations in fact pay for membership of EWL and they do not have permanent financial aid available to them.
This is in line with the Council position. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I rise to speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the subject of the programme intended to support women’s organisations and has replaced the Budget line that formerly funded only the European women’s lobby – that being the umbrella organisation for some 3&#160;000 women’s organisations in Europe, including the national women’s councils, such as the , which has about 11 million individual members in Germany, ranging from church groups to autonomous bodies via political women’s associations and trade unions.
We want to ensure quality.
That gives women’s organisations the security they need to plan ahead, and spares us another laborious legislative process once the two years are up.
The cofinancing arrangement, with 20% for women’s organisations, with the exception of the European Women’s Lobby, which gets 10%, excluding degressivity, is a solution with which all parties can live.
When enlargement happens, we want the organisations from Central and Eastern Europe also to be included, and we want priorities set.
We want to encourage women to play their part in the decision-making process; we want this programme, and the organisations, to support the fight against all forms of violence.
I have calculated that, every year, with this programme for women five thousandths of a euro is spent every day&#160;–&#160;not EUR 5 but five thousandths of a euro&#160;&#160;for each woman: that is a very small amount.
I have to say this about every report that has to do with action programmes, but, as the Commission has been very, very tardy in putting the reports before Parliament, the organisations concerned – including the cultural and educational programmes and of course the women’s programmes – now face the danger that they will get their money in 2004 only after a substantial delay or that the programmes cannot be run at all if – as you have previously stressed – this is not wrapped up by December.
That means that there still have to be some negotiations here.
The European Women's Lobby is an organisation that concentrates on equal opportunities policy and engages in it with determination, being able to show strength by bringing together many organisations.
The amendments proposed in the report will make it easier both to support projects that are important for the European Union and to monitor them.
The Commission proposal only loosely defines who will be affected, and quite a number of possible target countries are not at all non-industrialised.
In my opinion it is important that this project should apply specifically to those countries and their internal regions which can otherwise be more difficult to reach and with which the European Union can be considered to have an obvious need to develop mutual understanding and cooperation.
For this reason I am of the opinion that it is important in the report to stress the importance of dialogue between the Commission and Parliament before issuing a call for proposals.
The decisions made by the Commission regarding priority themes take a strong stance on European Union values, and it is very important that Parliament, which in the eyes of the people represents the Union, can influence these decisions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the issues addressed by these three reports appear at first sight to be of a technical nature.
We talk constantly about giving citizens more information about the European process and getting them more involved in it, but I want now to make it abundantly clear that there is a great danger of us, for the sake of the new legal basis and the Financial Regulation, throwing the baby out with the bathwater, and that we will, next year, be complaining that we have more problems with public information in the year of the European elections than we ever did before.
I therefore appeal in urgent terms, particularly to the Commission and to the Council, that greater account be taken of how Parliament votes on these issues, especially as regards the conciliation procedure this coming Monday.
This financial insecurity and inadequate institutional backup means that the Info-Points will, in future, be unable to perform their function.
And so, let me conclude by reiterating my appeal to the Commission and the Council.
Secondly, I would like to clarify the Commission's position on a number of points relating to the three reports and, thirdly, to respond to a number of points that have been raised.
Specifically in response to Mrs Dührkop Dührkop's comments about the publication of the call for tenders yesterday in the Official Journal, I have to inform her that the Commission had to do this to comply with the deadlines established by the financial regulation, which requires applications for operating grants to be submitted by 31 December.
The Commission has compromised on the duration of programmes, where we proposed to limit them, until the end of 2006. &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at noon. &#160;&#160; I regret to inform the House that earlier this morning Istanbul was rocked by a series of explosions.
At least five people are reported dead and over 100 injured, and there are staff unaccounted for.
This is an atrocity that will appal the whole House and the European Union.
We welcome the continued development of relations between our parliaments, especially following the entry into force of the Partnership and Cooperation agreement between the European Union and Kyrgyzstan in 1999, as well as the progress achieved by this country in combating poverty and consolidating a democratic state.
I am certain that the work of this fourth Parliamentary Cooperation Committee will be a new and important step in strengthening cooperation between the two parties, which are inspired by the same democratic values and which both attach great importance to the requirements of the rule of law. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, considering that, in the Joint Statement on the EU-Russia summit, the versions are not compatible in that they contain different translations&#160;–&#160;the official version is the English one, which says ‘President of the European Council’, whilst the French and Portuguese versions say ‘Italian President of the Council’&#160;–&#160;and, given the fact that the other versions could presumably contain the same error&#160;–&#160;and thatthe two definitions make the provisions below the aforementioned paragraph meaningless, I would like to ask whether, before proceeding to the vote, it would be possible to have all the versions brought into line, or, if not, if the vote on this resolution can be postponed to the next part-session in Brussels. &#160;&#160; As you said Mrs&#160;Muscardini, the English text is the correct one.
The problem is that the European Parliament delegation in the Conciliation Committee was split down the middle: seven in favour and seven against.
It may well be that this decision&#160;–&#160;which was, I assure you, a difficult, tough decision to make&#160;–&#160;is wrong, but I wanted to tell you the reasons why I acted in this way.
I also just want to emphasise that the two binding agreements mean that we must completely eliminate these poisonous substances.
It means that we in Europe must reduce the quantity of waste, partly through sorting and partly through recycling.
Finally, we must also ensure that the developing countries are in a position to comply with these agreements, which also cover, for example, DDT.
This would give us much greater balance between ensuring security and the freedom of movement of persons and goods, and also in the checks carried out by States at their own borders.
Bearing in mind the new reality that has emerged since 11&#160;September 2001, the proper use of our monitoring and information-sharing mechanisms for monitoring our borders – in particular the new technologies – must be guaranteed.
On this point I have confidence that access for a greater number of authorities to SIS data will be moderate and rigorous and feel certain that only clearly indicated bodies (Europol, Eurojust and Police Authorities) will be able to access it and that the justification for this access will be objective and documented, in addition... &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, formally, the issue of self-handling received the most attentionduring the debate on the Directive on market access to port services.
A new competitive battle now threatens to be joined between ports imposing stricter criteria and those with less strict criteria, and likewise when it comes to issuing authorisations. &#160;&#160; The draft directive on market access to port services, which was the subject of the Jarzembowski report, was designed to provide a transparent legal framework governing commercial services provided to users of seaports in exchange for payment and to open these services to competition.
The final version of the text as it emerged from the Conciliation Committee brought some improvements in this respect, in that the competent authorities could now limit the provision of pilotage services to a single provider for safety reasons, and the limitation of the period of authorisation was abandoned.
Hugely important interests are at stake: economic and financial interests, but above all social and human interests.
Since our first vote on this matter, almost three years ago to the day, the French Socialists have fought to safeguard the public-service character of port services.
Having been unable to achieve the same success on cargo-handling, a service provided by dockers, by the time the second reading came round on 11 March 2003, we voted against a draft that is an integral part of the policy of relentlessly liberalising all modes of transport in Europe.
Today, the draft on which we are called to pass judgment, in the form of the joint text resulting from the conciliation procedure between Parliament and the Commission, represents a very distinct regression on all the points we fought to improve.
This result concludes an intense fight by unions in the sector which had our support and that of our political group as could be seen from the enormous demonstrations in front of the European Parliament in March of this year and in Barcelona and Rotterdam, in September, or even this week, with a petition containing over 16&#160;000 workers’ signatures, in addition to the strikes, demonstrations and other actions.
All of the sector’s unions opposed both this directive and the agreement reached at the conciliation meeting between the Council and Parliament, which has now been rejected.
It did not even accept the system of prior authorisation for service providers. &#160;&#160; For months Brussels and the governments have been indifferent to the fate of the employees of European port services, particularly the cargo handlers in French ports.
This is why the Members from the have voted against the Jarzembowski report. &#160;&#160; The European Commission is pursuing its efforts to construct an area of unbridled global free trade in which the workers of the South, with no competitive advantage but their poverty, are used as a weapon against the workers of the northern hemisphere.
And so I, who represent the town of Sète in the European Parliament, and the movement led by Jean-Marie Le Pen say no to this policy of the slave shippers of global free trade, which is the scourge of nations. &#160;&#160; .I welcome the outcome achieved in conciliation and declared my favourable vote in writing.
I am also surprised that, in the final vote, more than a dozen voting machines – all belonging to Members who were voting in favour – stopped working for some strange reason and that, despite their immediate complaints, the President did not restart the vote. &#160;&#160; The Members from the approve the aim of transparency with regard to access to port services.
I chose to abstain on the compromise that emerged from the conciliation procedure, because the result of the interinstitutional negotiations fail to reflect the work that has been done over a period of more than two years.
I hope that the Commission’s future proposals will be based on this different approach. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wanted to mention that the majority of my political group abstained or voted against the report, because the final result was not what we wished for as the continuation of efforts towards a Community action plan for women's organisations in the field of equality.
We recognise that the role and the work of the European Women's Lobby need to be safeguarded but, at the same time, other organisations also need to be given the opportunity to have a viable action programme.
We believe that it constitutes a basic support for our democracy and our political group will continue to work in this direction. &#160;&#160; The principle of subsidiarity is important to us.
We want to see a limited and efficient EU dealing with cross-border problems.
To the extent that equality is a political issue, we believe that it is an area of responsibility for the Member States.
I also wish to emphasise that implementing this programme must not lead to cuts in other programmes or funds that implement annual priority issues set by the Union in this field, such as wage equality, participation in decision-making and reconciling working life with family life. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the rapporteur’s amendments geared towards significantly improving the Commission text.
This fact has been referred to by various women’s organisations working in this field at European level and who feel discriminated against.
In particular, I would highlight Amendment 4, in the hope that the final text of the decision will move broadly in this direction.
All the rules that give the European Women’s Lobby an advantage over other organisations are politically iniquitous and legally questionable.
Even though, thanks to action by the Christian Democrats, the monopoly situation no longer exists, the European Parliament and the Commission want to continue to discriminate against women’s organisations outside the European Women’s Lobby by imposing special application requirements and by only approving such activities as are carried out by organisations that combat the abuse of women.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; We in the Moderate Party have always been of the view that non-profit-making organisations are more efficient than state organisations at the job of combating destitution and hardship in the non-industrialised world.
The same reasoning naturally applies also to the EU’s development work and reciprocal cooperation with developing countries.
We have therefore voted in favour of the report.
Organisations receiving EU aid must nonetheless be selected objectively and without bias. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the report because I believe that the amendments tabled by the rapporteur improve the wording of the Commission proposal, by introducing criteria that are feasible, rational and, at the same time, humane.
I agree with the rapporteur’s statement that dialogue between cultures and civilisations now, more than ever, has a crucial role to play in ensuring peace and stability in the world.
The same applies to universal respect for human rights.
I would emphasise the programme’s geographical coverage, because this should facilitate closer dialogue with the countries of Africa and Latin America (the ALA countries), the countries of the euro-Mediterranean partnership (MEDA countries), the countries of the former USSR (TACIS countries), the countries of the former Yugoslavia (CARDS countries) and the candidate countries. &#160;&#160; The big challenge now faced by the EU is to bring about national understanding for cross-border measures and European cooperation, arising from the insight that a national perspective is not enough where every issue is concerned.
There must be an integrated approach to the European issue, taking place at European level and within the national parties and civil society, and the issue must, above all, be a part of the political consciousness of Europeans.
Understanding should instead be brought about in relation to those issues that people confront in their everyday lives and that they see as being impossible to resolve on the basis of a national perspective.
I also wish to emphasise that it is not enough to develop the concept of citizenship from a legal point of view in order to exercise the rights permitted by the Community .
I already made some observations on the technical aspects in my speech during the debate in plenary.
The scant interest on the part of European citizens in European issues clearly reveals the urgent need to adapt some variables and to revise fundamental policies and attitudes. &#160;&#160; –.The concept of ‘European citizenship’ must not be an exclusively legal argument.
To this end I would emphasise the need to continue to support town-‘twinning’ schemes between the various peoples of the Union given the important role that these have in promoting civic identity and mutual understanding between the peoples of Europe.
It is important to ensure that adequate and sustainable funding is provided to support twinning. &#160;&#160; –.As I have said on so many other occasions, I support measures that make an effective and active contribution to raising environmental quality standards.
These pollutants are transported far from their source, cross international borders and can even affect regions in which they have never been used or produced.
At the Intergovernmental Conference, different governments have already tabled many amendments to the draft Constitution.
This, for the first time, suggests that the budgetary powers of this Parliament should be in comparison with their current status.
That is why my Group as a whole vigorously supported the resolution that we have just adopted. &#160;&#160; The European Parliament is furious about the initiative taken by the national ministers of finance, who have asked the Intergovernmental Conference to undertake a radical revision of the budgetary provisions of the draft European Constitution.
In fact, there is more reason to be furious about the draft produced by the Convention, which managed, under the tutelage of the European institutions, to enshrine a huge increase in the budgetary powers of the European Parliament in its articles on the finances of the Union, giving it the same powers as a national parliament, with the exception of the power to levy taxes; moreover, it charged the Council to legislate on the ‘modalities’ relating to the Union's own resources, thereby leaving the door ajar for further developments in the direction of tax-raising powers.
If this were not so, the European Parliament would be free to vote for expenditure matching its inflated perception of its own powers.
These provisions seek to achieve a major change as regards substance in relation to the existing Treaty, by including the financial perspective and the budgetary discharge in the so-called ‘Constitution’.
In other words, they wish to transform the current interinstitutional agreement and to ‘constitutionalise’ the financial perspective, erecting a more substantial barrier, not only to its revision or modification, but also making approval of the annual budget dependent on the upper limit of the financial perspective, as stated clearly in the reading of Article&#160;52(5) and Article&#160;54(3) and of the provisions of Article&#160;III-308.
We have always argued for financial perspectives that safeguard the principle of economic and social cohesion in an enlarged EU and we must not forget that today’s budget is the lowest since 1987, in relative terms, in other words, less than 1% of Community GNI, which makes a revision of the financial perspectives necessary.
As to the amendment relating to the referendum on the results of the IGC, I wish to say that our vote in favour of the referendum is unambiguous and makes it clear that we are against a European referendum or a referendum on the same day as the European elections and that we demand that the constitutional rules of the Member States be respected. &#160;&#160; .– EU policy towards the other countries of the Mediterranean is becoming more and more aggressive.
Its basic objective is to turn these countries into its satellites, penetrate their markets and exploit their people and wealth.
To be specific, the ΕU is calling for alignment on issues of 'terrorism', judicial and police cooperation, even participation in its actions within the framework of foreign policy and defence policy, offering training for the necessary political and military staff.
The people who live around the Mediterranean have needed no vote by a European Parliament to establish relations among each other, as they have done since time immemorial.
For thousands of years, the Mediterranean has not been an obstacle, but a link between peoples.
Therefore, if we want to talk about a ‘Euro-Mediterranean partnership’, the least we can do is to allow those from the Maghreb who live in France to live there with dignity, as human beings in the twenty-first century, whether they are there legally or illegally.
They should be granted all civil rights, in particular the right to vote and the right to move freely throughout the European Union.
There are some protests against the war that Putin is leading in Chechnya but also self-congratulations on the progress made in the area of police cooperation, not to mention the hope that ‘the progress made in Russia to create a positive environment for the development of trade and investment by Russian and foreign companies’ will continue.
We voted in favour of the amendments that protest against the war in Chechnya and abstained on the remainder of the resolution.
It should be remembered that while the European Parliament is getting ready to speak out against ‘the human rights violations in Chechnya’, the European Heads of State, from Berlusconi to Chirac, are falling over each other to play host to Putin.
Our concern at the current crisis in Chechnya, with the steady stream of reports of serious human rights breaches, obliges us to keep this as a special item on the European agenda and to ask the Russian authorities to reopen negotiations with all the parties involved, in order to reach a political solution to the conflict.
Although this issue was not covered by the conclusions of the latest EU-Russia Summit, its inclusion in the European Parliament motion for a resolution determined my vote in favour, because the paragraph criticising the Italian presidency, which could have turned my final vote the other way, was voted on separately, and I was therefore able to express my opposition to it. &#160;&#160; , . – The Commission communication and the Napoletano report follow on from and specify the Solana doctrine presented at the Thessaloniki summit setting the priorities for the Union's foreign policy.
This being the case, the stability and security of the entire European continent depends on better relations being developed between all its States: those of the European Union and its new neighbours on the one hand, and between these new neighbours, on the other.
As the rapporteur explained, the aim is to move beyond the approach of bilateral relations between the European Union and each of the countries in question, by promoting relations with all these countries as a whole, and at the same time by encouraging all of these countries to develop balanced and mutually beneficial relations amongst themselves.
The general conditions must therefore be established to enable us gradually to share common values and principles and, of course, well-being and progress with all the countries involved.
It is not only from televised images of the post-election demonstrations in Georgia or the confusion in Azerbaijan, also following elections, that we know how explosive the situation in these countries is.
When, too, the European Commission constantly stresses that Europe has more of a presence in these countries, is exerting greater influence and providing more financial support than is generally known, it is all the more surprising that this region is not even mentioned once in such an important document on the European Union’s future relations with its eastern neighbours.
It is about channelling our precious resources for research into producing weapons that are going to cause conflict in other parts of the world.
The CEO of the second largest aerospace and defence company in the world EADS has actually bemoaned the fact that the US already invests six times more than Europe in armaments research and that while the research budgets in the US continue to rise, those in Europe stagnate.
He goes on to say that our defence industry is already at a serious competitive disadvantage, but the time has come for that industry to realise that it should move away from producing weapons that cause havoc around the world and start to produce something that will contribute to the betterment of society rather than to its destruction.
It therefore calls for the development of a 'European defence equipment industry which is competitive and viable' in keeping with the decision taken at the Thessaloniki Council, the Solana letter and the European constitution, which obliges everyone to improve their military capabilities.
Let this decision be the EC's answer to all those who deceive the world by saying that the ΕU is the guardian of world peace and that the objective of the common defence policy is to safeguard security.
For them peace means war and security means repression.
Needless to add that the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece condemn the warmongers and voted against the report. &#160;&#160; .I support the report drawn up by my fellow countryman and friend Luís&#160;Queiró, because I agree with the need to adopt measures that will enable us to establish favourable conditions for developing a competitive and viable European defence equipment industry.
It is not reasonable that the situation seen in all the Member States of the European Union should continue, when their defence spending amounts to 50% of what the United States invests in order to obtain the equivalent of only 10% of the military capacities of that country, which is an ally of ours.
The inadequacy of the means harnessed by the countries of the EU as a whole is not desirable either for Europe or for our allies in NATO.
The Member States should spend more money on it.
I believe that the approach adopted, which is one of cooperation, not of competition, between NATO and the European Union when it comes to their respective competences is one way of realistically and clearly viewing the common defence effort that, since 1949, has borne fruit.
Strengthening and streamlining the European defence equipment industry with a view to creating a competitive European market for defence equipment is an aim that could be justified by the need to streamline its funding, to harmonise regulations on equipment, to exercise political and parliamentary control and to engage in research and development, provided that, in practice, genuine competitiveness is maintained in the fields of defence and security and provided that we fight against operational centralism and industrial concentration, which would inevitably benefit the countries with the best defence equipment and technologies.
This report consequently enables us to offer Member States a solid framework for discussion which, whilst taking account of the differing interests of the Member States in ESDP... &#160;&#160; The overall tenor of the Commission’s proposal is constructive.
The EU must make a better job of coordinating the production of defence equipment between the Member States.
The coordination of production and research between the EU Member States where defence equipment is concerned will hopefully lead to greater efficiency and better management of resources.
Those who justify the increase in defence expenditure are doing nothing to meet social needs; their key concern is the interests of their shareholders.
The admission of areas of the Balkans to the EU while their administrative future is still contentious could potentially suck the whole of the EU into civil wars and their suppression.
I also support his call for a speedy settlement of the permanent status of Kosovo on the basis of far-reaching autonomy or independence.
That is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report. &#160;&#160; –.On 16 June 2003, the Thessaloniki European Council adopted the Agenda for the Western Balkans and, a few days later, the Heads of State or Government of the EU, of the future Member States and of the countries of the Stabilisation and Association Process (SAP) issued a Joint Declaration on prospects for the SAP and for the accession of these countries to the European Union.
In addition, how can we talk about ‘neutrality’ while the EU’s economic, political and military actions have encouraged first Montenegro and then Kosovo to strive for independence, only to urge them subsequently to abandon the idea?
We are well aware that the new Financial Regulation that we adopted in this House, does not permit operating grants, but a solution must nevertheless be found to this grave problem so that the Info-Points affected can continue to work through 2004 and can continue to inform the public about the activities of the European Union and the work that we do on a daily basis.
The Commission should be aware that the European elections, although they are often described as a matter for Parliament, are not only that; they are far more a process of active public participation in which the Commission should also join.
The Info-Points and Carrefours make a substantial contribution to the European Union’s information and communications policy, and their significance should not be underestimated, particularly at a time when enlargement is within sight and in view of the continued and increasing need for information campaigns.
I would therefore like to clarify exactly which information outlets we are dealing with, explain the nature, size and impact of the subsidies provided by the Commission to them and update her and the House on the Commission’s latest course of action in direct response to her question and the numerous questions and representations on this issue by Members of this House and others.
They are housed in what are known as 'host structures', which are generally national, regional or local authorities, NGOs or universities.
They include: 126 rural information and promotion Carrefours; 140 Info-Points Europe IPE in urban areas of the Union; nearly 800 European Documentation Centres EDC generally situated in large higher education establishments worldwide; and a network of around 500 experts in one or more areas of European Union policy as conference or other forms of public speakers known as 'Team Europe'.
All of these public information relays receive support services in kind from the Commission.
Meanwhile, it is important to note, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, that only the 266 host structures of the first two of these relays and networks – the IPEs and Carrefours – have ever received operating grants from the Commission since DG Press started overseeing them in 2001.
As the House is aware, the Financial Regulation that came into force on 1&#160;January 2003 no longer permits direct operating subsidies to be awarded to external bodies without either a call for proposals or the establishment of a legal basis for expenditure.
I would also add that, in its 2002 Activity Report, the Director-General of DG Press felt compelled to enter a reservation about the management of the relays because it was not possible to guarantee, with the resources at its disposal, proper monitoring and control of a relatively high number of small grants.
The Commission therefore confirms that the proposal adopted on 29&#160;September 2003 to terminate grants with effect from 2004 complied fully with the Financial Regulation and its implementing provisions.
Further to the amendment to the 2004 draft budget tabled in this House, and placing in reserve the appropriations under three of the budget headings related to the activities of DG Press, the Commission was given the task of trying to reach an accommodation that, as far as possible, satisfied the demands for operational continuity sought by Parliament, whilst also securing financial monitoring and control.
The Commission is aware of the particular political importance of the year ahead and, in response to the honourable Member’s question, I would make the following points.
First, at our meeting on 11 November 2003, the Commission noted that we would have to take up the matter of host entities’ grants again, with a view to taking a final decision in the light of the outcome of the budget trialogue of 13 November.
Second, in order to retain the current system for 2004, there would need to be a Commission decision providing for a waiver to the rule in the Financial Regulation that requires a call for proposals that is accompanied by adequate monitoring and control provisions tailored to the results of risk analysis and backed by a joint policy declaration by the three institutions.
This solution would be justifiable for one year only, but may provide a kind of bridge that would ensure the continuity the honourable Member seeks.
That proposed solution was subsequently examined by the budgetary trialogue and will now be formally presented for approval at the Conciliation Committee meeting of 24 November 2003.
In response to the honourable Member’s third question, the Commission has instructed DG Press to formulate proposals that will ensure the proper availability of comprehensive information for citizens in the Union of 25 Member States.
These proposals, to be set out in a communication that will hopefully be produced before Christmas, will build on the July 2002 communication on Information and Communication Strategy for the European Union, and will follow four principles for relay management set out in that communication: a more homogenous brand; a more streamlined and decentralised set of information outlets and networks; closer partnership with Member State authorities; and more interinstitutional cooperation.
The relays act as a uniquely important bridge between the European Union’s policy-making mechanism and the citizens to whom we are all accountable.
Furthermore, the European Parliament has highlighted it on several occasions, such as in the report on information and communication policy which it was my honour to present to this House.
In that report I pointed out that information centres were useful in terms of reaching all corners of the European Union and how they could be useful meeting points and instruments for the work of MEPs in their respective constituencies.
Amendment 42 of the Rühle report, which the Commission opposed this morning, also stressed the importance of these information centres.
I therefore feel it is important to seek a transitional provision, such as that of maintaining a kind of phasing-out of these subsidies during 2004.
It shows clearly that we can imagine the most innovative of policies possible, but when the budgetary machine is established, it is one-eyed.
I am a product of adult education and am convinced that knowledge and information are the key instruments of active and responsible citizenship, so I can only welcome the excellent work carried out by the Info-Points Europe.
They are educational, they are innovative, they have a remarkable capacity for initiative and, above all, they enable us to raise awareness of Europe and to spread Europe’s messages to its citizens of all ages, all areas, and all cultures with a proximity that cannot be matched and that other institutions fail to match.
If the support we are going to be guaranteed for 2004 gave us the time to conceive arrangements for collaboration that enabled this system to continue on a permanent basis, that would indeed be effective.
I believe that the solutions are simple: administrative simplification, respect for work and, what is perhaps also necessary, an audit. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the decision made at the end of September by the Commission’s Directorate-General for Press and Communication regarding the end to subsidies for the operation of the European Info-Points and Carrefours has given rise to significant disappointment and significant surprise among their managers and staff.
The citizens of the European Union will also be the losers as a result of this end to operating subsidies for 2004.
For example, the closure of the European Carrefours is a great loss as regards the information distributed in the most rural regions.
In light of this context, we must combine all of our efforts to find a fair solution because we are all worried.
Their activity and the efforts made by these structures have proved the effectiveness of their action.
The Info-Points have always made every effort to carry out the role entrusted to them, in this case acting as an interface for a dynamic platform.
Being aware of this need and convinced of the important role played by these structures, I call on the Commission to review its decision and to allow these European information networks to continue to perform the functions we have entrusted to them, which are more essential now then ever.
Secondly, the European Parliament has already stated its opinion on the European Union’s information and communication strategy, and, in so doing, has expressed the desire to bring communications as close as possible to the citizen.
In its motion for a resolution, it expresses the desire to invest more in a well-functioning information network, includingInfo-Points.
I should like to make a plea, then, that we by no means abolish theseInfo-Points, but, on the contrary, improve their functioning, particularly now, in the light of the elections and enlargement taking place in 2004.
We must not make savings on the promotion of the European Union, a Union that brings peace, security and prosperity to the Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am sorry that it is Commissioner Kinnock who has to be here this afternoon to take this criticism on the chin, because I in no way regard him as personally responsible for the situation in which we find ourselves.
We knew about the problem in January and the Commission's solution was to send the Info-Points a letter at the end of September.
After all, the amount of expenditure is pretty minimal.
Sadly, this is another own goal by the Commission.
We also all agree that the procedures under this Financial Regulation must be adhered to, including the procedures that allow for genuine transparency in the implementation of the budget.
Today, we must find a solution for 2004 and I believe that we will find it on Monday.
And if the political will is lacking, then what happens – as it has done in this case – is that people try a partial solution of the problem for a short transitional period, without coming up with a proper arrangement for the future.
If Info-Points and likewise Carrefours are to be phased out and we now hear that there is the possibility of a transitional period of a year or perhaps even longer, that does nothing to counteract this tendency.
It is not that we need another year or two because we have elections next year; it is that we need a solution for the future!
Commissioner, it is for me a matter of profound conviction that if we talk in terms – as we have done several times today – of pooling strengths, then we must also consider the need to link up the offices of Parliament and the Commission in the Member States with the Info-Points and Carrefours, in order to build up our presence in the territory in question.
It is a matter of absolute necessity that we involve the Member States’ voluntary sectors in these information offices and strive towards improving cooperation with local organisations and bodies, making for greater efficiency and better financial conditions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it so happens that the Commissioner saved himself with this excellent opening speech when he said what we actually wanted to hear.
This is how a clever and experienced Commissioner obviously operates, but thank you, Neil Kinnock, for what you just said.
The impact of enlargement will create a continuous need for information in all Member States.
This is a document more than 300 pages long, which so far fewer than 2% of the citizens of the Union have read.
I am very much in favour of the idea that next year the Commission will seek a better, more workable and more easily controllable solution.
This question referred, in a much more detailed, specific way, to the concerns of those working&#160;–&#160;some for many years&#160;–&#160;at Info Centres, Info-Points and Carrefours, all the European information points.
Now, given that we have still not received a written reply&#160;–&#160;at least not one that I have seen&#160;–&#160;I will take the liberty of quickly going over the points in this question.
It began by stressing how the European Parliament, exactly as it is doing today, has often drawn attention to the importance, as regards information and communication policy, of these networks created in more or less all the Member States.
As Commissioner Kinnock mentioned, this is all because of the entry into force, on 1&#160;January 2003, of Financial Regulations No 1605 and No 2342.
This is a new and unprecedented situation which places a question mark over the very survival of these networks and, in any case, drastically reduces the capacity for dialogue with the citizens at precisely a time when, on the contrary, such dialogue should be increased.
In my country the best thing about Info-Points Europe is that they are where the people are.
The EU Carrefours are in rural areas and the Info-Points Europe in regional libraries.
It is absolutely essential that the European elections reach the people through involvement in the voting on the part of the public media as well as the Union’s own organs of communication.
I know this House and certainly the people present at this debate understand the problems.
However, in this case it would have been quite legitimate and I fully understand that.
The whole experience has been a real lesson in the handling of the transitional requirement that arises automatically when we are making very necessary but quite sudden changes in our management and financing relationships.
I deeply regret the actions of President Chandrika Kumaratunga.
Through its actions today, the European Parliament, in sending once again a message of goodwill to Sri Lanka, is also expressing its wish for the President and the Prime Minister to work together in the national interest.
We remain willing to assist them in the search for permanent peace in their beautiful country. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the current political crisis in Sri Lanka is having enormous repercussions on the peace process and the country’s economic future.
Last week, in fact, three ministers were sacked, the parliament was suspended and a state of emergency was declared.
While the Sri Lankans welcome the progress made in the peace process involving the Tamil separatists, the instability that the President has provoked leaves the country in the grip of a serious crisis of confidence, from both a political and an economic point of view.
At a political level, the departure of the Norwegian negotiators, who played a key role in the peace negotiations between the Tamil separatists and the Sri Lankan government, is extremely regrettable.
In light of this climate of hostility, we are calling on the Sri Lankan authorities to resolve these issues as quickly as possible so that they can finally offer their people the stability and the security they deserve. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the conflict between the Sri Lankan Government and the Tamil Tigers has been going on for thirty years and has resulted in tens of thousands of deaths.
The negotiations having been suspended in April, the resumption of dialogue at the end of October with the Prime Minister, Ranil Wickremesinghe, was a significant step forward on the road to peace.
It could deteriorate rapidly and even result in a resumption of the war and new elections with uncertain results.
The President’s accusations against the government and the uncertainty surrounding the ceasefire are very worrying.
The President must resume contacts with the Prime Minister as soon as possible in order to find a constitutional solution.
In this respect, we fully support the Norwegian Government in its role as mediator and hope that it resumes its efforts as soon as possible.
The situation is particularly worrying in relation to the issue of human rights.
The emergency regime must not lead to an increase in infringements of fundamental freedoms.
The two parties have alternated in government, and have lost face politically to a great extent in the meanwhile.
Europe must give a clear signal that a lasting peace agreement is inescapable, and that resumption of the devastating war is unacceptable.
The civil war had lasted twenty years, had claimed a toll of over 60&#160;000 dead, and human rights organisations told us that ‘war is an institution’.
The security situation has improved in many parts of the country.
Progress has also been made in that representatives of the LTTE have, for the first time, agreed to free elections in the North.
We wish the people of Sri Lanka a speedy end to private feuding in the interests of peace. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Sri Lanka is in a situation of cohabitation, with a President and a Prime Minister belonging to two rival political formations.
For twenty years now, each political formation in power has sought to make peace with the Tamil Tigers and on each occasion the opposition has ruined the peace process.
Thus, when the current Prime Minister was in opposition, he ruined the President’s plan to give greater autonomy to the Tamils in the north-east of the country, where they are in the majority.
For the first time since the movement came into being, the Tamil freedom fighters had just published concrete proposals for power-sharing in a region that, although run by the Tamils themselves, would continue to form part of Sri Lanka.
These proposals were negotiable, but then the President took upon herself the heavy responsibility of halting this peace process, making the most of the Prime Minister’s trip to the United States and her constitutional prerogatives.
A conciliation commission has even been set up between the two arms of the executive.
Our group sincerely believes that the European Parliament must send a very clear sign to the political leaders in Sri Lanka to encourage them to find a solution to the political crisis, but also, and above all, a constitutional solution that will allow for a lasting agreement with the Tamils.
The Commission has closely followed developments in Sri Lanka and is greatly concerned by the grave setback inflicted on the peace process by recent events, including the deployment of troops in the capital and the decision to bring the cabinet portfolios of defence, interior, and communications under the remit of the President.
The Council presidency and the Commission have issued a joint statement with Norway, the United States and Japan expressing our common concern that recent developments in Sri Lanka may jeopardise the spirit of cohabitation between the President and the government, which has proved vital to efforts to sustain the momentum of the peace process.
The Commission will continue its efforts motivated by the hope that the tension can be reduced.
Naturally, the Commission remains in daily contact with its delegation in Colombo in order to keep abreast of all developments.
Commissioner Patten will visit Sri Lanka on 25 and 26&#160;November 2003 as planned.
The Commission is working in a coordinated manner with the Council.
This is a hope that we share and are seeking to reinforce. &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
The decision by the Indonesian authorities to extend martial law and carry out a military crackdown is deeply regrettable, and there has been very heavy-handed military action.
An estimated 45 000 troops have been sent into the province against 5000 rebels.
We have heard this so often, but often been disappointed.
I hope the Council and the Commission will now do everything possible to assist Indonesia in getting back to the negotiating table with GAM and get those talks started as soon as possible.
This is a matter of some urgency and I am very grateful to colleagues in this Parliament for agreeing to have today's debate and for supporting this resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, when President Megawati was a presidential candidate, she stated that the economic, social and political oppression of Aceh's people was the source of their dissatisfaction and the reason for the unrest.
Especially worrying are the latest rumours that a military group suspected of having committed systematic human rights abuses in East Timor in 1999, together with a group of soldiers from the Indonesian army charged with, or convicted or suspected of, serious human rights abuses are now also active in Aceh.
The situation is very worrying and this climate of violence throughout the province risks ending up in another diabolical spiral.
Since the end of May, the Indonesian military have arrested or killed almost two thousand people suspected of belonging to the GAM rebel group, a movement that demands autonomy for Aceh.
In Aceh, where the security forces have for many years been present in large numbers and have been murdering citizens with complete impunity, the climate is getting worse every day and is further reducing the confidence of the province’s inhabitants.
The Indonesian Government’s passive attitude to the thousands of violations reported in Aceh, the majority of which have been committed by its own security forces as part of the anti-insurrectionist operations in recent years, has fuelled the people’s resentment and created conditions likely to strengthen violent opposition.
The hope of lasting peace in Aceh will never be fulfilled unless steps are taken to protect the civilian population from the human rights violations.
Today, we call on the Indonesian authorities, but also the ASEAN countries, the Council and the Commission to ensure that Jakarta makes every effort to defuse the situation in the region and that the flagrant human rights violations are strongly condemned.
Finally, we believe that the GAM will also have to cooperate in any investigation carried out into the human rights infringements attributed to its members. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for me this is not a debate on the rights and wrongs of those in Aceh who campaign for independence, nor is it a criticism of Indonesia's right to intervene to secure law and order, so long, of course, as that country does not permit human rights abuses to be committed by any of its forces.
As we know, most of Aceh's 4.2 million people live outside the two main towns.
Five hundred schools have been burnt down, thousands of people have fled from their homes and Governor Puteh has said that unemployment and poverty are now at alarming rates.
One is the fact that 77 community heads have been replaced by military personnel and the second is that active in Aceh are people like Major General Damiri, Brigadier General Suratman and others who have been convicted of crimes against humanity in East Timor.
Kofi Annan has appealed to Indonesia to ensure access to humanitarian aid and human rights organisations.
Our main concern, however, relates to the closing-off of the region and the fact that it is impossible to gain access to the people, and particularly the victims of the conflict, because when there is a state of emergency the military governs the region and distributes the humanitarian aid.
With the hope of re-establishing dialogue, on behalf of the human rights group of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I organised, in October, a discussion on the critical situation in Atjeh and Papua.
Unfortunately, the Indonesian Government’s failure to face the separatist movements and civil society representatives prevented us from making any progress in achieving a peaceful resolution to the conflict.
Even though we do not support the armed rebellions, we call on the Indonesian Government to engage in dialogue with the fighters in order to build peace, and we call on the European Union to promote the reconciliation process. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, during an earlier debate on Aceh, on 5&#160;June, I pointed out that the borders in the developing world are largely a product of European colonial administration.
Peoples that have been assigned to large, powerful neighbours run the risk of becoming second- or third-class citizens for good, without access to leading positions, without the possibility of active political participation and without having their natural resources at their disposal.
That is comparable with the situation in Sri Lanka we discussed in an earlier agenda item.
The President needs this war to keep herself in power.
The situation in the province is obviously a matter of concern for the Commission, and in a recent statement the European Union presidency and the Commission, as co-chairs of the Tokyo Conference on peace and reconstruction in Aceh, voiced their concern about the extension of the state of military emergency in the province.
In pursuing such a process we always include references to humanitarian aid, the restoration of civil institutions and respect for the law.
While the Commission reiterates its commitment to the territorial integrity of Indonesia, it is also firmly convinced that the conflict in Aceh can only be ended by political means.
Despite the difficulties of obtaining reliable and verifiable information, our delegation in Jakarta is closely monitoring developments in the province in coordination with Member State missions to Indonesia.
The cause of decency and humanity is well served by the interest demonstrated by this House, especially in the way in which honourable Members were able to illustrate their concern and arguments by reference to the reality of the wretchedness inflicted on the people of Aceh. &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
The Vietnamese Government is conducting a vigorous campaign against the Protestant Montagnards via television.
Call in foreign co-financing organisations for this purpose.
This is an interesting point for the European Union and Vietnam to reflect on for tomorrow’s meeting. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the recent events that have taken place in Vietnam demonstrate once again the repression suffered by the monks of the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam, the UBCV.
The Vietnamese authorities have placed eleven dissident bonzes of the UBCV under house arrest for two years, including the Patriarch of the Buddhist Church, the Venerable Thich Huyen Quang, who has already spent twenty-one years in prison.
This repression followed the first extraordinary assembly of the UBCV since it was outlawed by the communist authorities in 1981.
The Hanoi Government has justified these detentions by using violations of national security legislation as an excuse.
Vietnamese law authorises local authorities to place individuals under administrative detention lasting between six months and two years, without trial, in cases of attacks on national security.
In actual fact, through their behaviour the Vietnamese authorities are contradicting their grand declarations in favour of reforms and democracy.
I should point out that religious freedom is a fundamental right in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the European Union/Vietnam Cooperation Agreement is based precisely on fundamental respect for human rights.
This policy of repression, not only of the monks of the Unified Buddhist Church but also of the Hoa Hao Buddhist Church, the Catholic Church and the Christian Montagnards must end.
This diversity is a wealth that should not be squandered.
The Hanoi regime must show good will and implement a series of concrete reforms, beginning with those that guarantee complete freedom of religion, and in this way launch a real process of democratisation.
The freedom to believe in a religion, or not to do so, is guaranteed.
Cooperation between the European Union and Vietnam is founded upon the absence of any restriction on the exercise of human rights, as is stated in our cooperation agreement of 1985.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats strongly condemns the latest acts of repression.
If the Hanoi Government does not want to jeopardise its cooperation with the EU, legal status must be granted to all churches, and people interned for their religious beliefs must be set at liberty.
We urge the Council and the Commission to use all diplomatic means to make religious freedom a reality in Vietnam.
We believe that Parliament needs to send a delegation to Vietnam to examine the situation on the ground and have talks with office-holders of all religions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, freedom of religion is an important indicator that human rights are being enforced: a sort of human rights litmus test.
The situation in Vietnam demands the attention of the international community.
A precondition of economic cooperation between the EU and the communist republic of Vietnam has been a respect for fundamental rights and the principles of democracy.
The practice of fundamental rights such as expressing one’s opinion can even be loosely interpreted as espionage on the basis of specific law on national security.
In no case can a state ruled by law be built with laws that permit racial, religious or political discrimination. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to start by recalling that only recently, six months ago to be precise, we gathered here, in this Chamber, to address the situation of human rights in Vietnam.
The Buddhist patriarch is under house arrest and, what is worse, the pagodas belonging to the Buddhist church have been locked up, in a blatant attack on the most important principle of the Buddhist church.
Yesterday, the US congress adopted a very similar resolution to that which we will vote on in a few moments, and I feel that is another demonstration of weariness from the other side of the Atlantic.
I am sorry to say that the Council and the Member States are often absent from this House.
The Commission should make the Hanoi authorities understand that if there is no progress in this specific area then cooperation aid will be suspended immediately.
I believe that without a strong gesture from the Commission in the meeting tomorrow, this umpteenth Parliament resolution will be useless.
The admired Socialist philosopher Aneurin Bevan said that each freedom is only made safe by adding another to it.
So, when we strive for freedom in Vietnam, we are striving to secure our own freedoms and those of other people around the world.
The Commission has an overall policy towards Vietnam, with which the House is familiar.
The Commission works closely with the European Union Member States in monitoring human rights developments in Vietnam and participates in all EU Troika approaches to the Vietnamese Government on human rights issues.
Article 1 of the European Commission-Vietnam Cooperation Agreement of 1995 states that respect for human rights and democratic principles is the basis of our cooperation.
As we informed Parliament on 15 May, this allows the Commission to discuss human rights issues with Vietnam, for example in joint Commission meetings held under the agreement.
Since that debate six months ago, the Commission has proposed further reinforcement of the EU's human rights dialogue with the Vietnamese Government, in the light of the EU's experience with dialogues in other countries.
The human rights dialogue with Vietnam is taking place on two different but complementary levels: the EU-Vietnam dialogue on human rights between EU Troika missions in Hanoi and the government, which will next convene on 26 November, and the EC-Vietnam Joint Commission, which is to take place tomorrow.
We also note that Vietnam’s parliament, the National Assembly, has expressed an interest in entering into a constructive dialogue with this House on these and other issues.
The European Commission and Member States have expressed their concerns over these events, and have called upon the Vietnamese Government to resume the dialogue initiated earlier this year between the UBCV and important members of the Vietnamese administration, including the Prime Minister, to restore the hope of a solution acceptable to all parties.
Those vital elements of liberation still have to be secured in Vietnam. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I think that there is ambiguity here.
The question is simple: is the Commission prepared to introduce tomorrow as ‘conditional’ in the negotiations with Vietnam the issue of granting legal status to the churches that are not recognised?
We have to continue to exercise it in the fashion familiar to the House. &#160;&#160; That ends the joint debate.
