Gambling and sports betting in the Internal Market (debate) The next item is the Oral Question to the Commission by Arlene McCarthy, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on gambling and sports betting in the internal market - B6-0443/2006).
The committee would like the Commission to tell us in particular what progress has been made on the infringement proceedings launched on 4 April 2006 and what future steps are planned in this area.
As we are on the brink of agreeing the Services Directive, we are well aware of the need for Member States to fulfil their Treaty obligations under Article 49 as regards the free movement of services.
However, the freedom to provide services has in the case of the gambling sector clashed with national law in a number of Member States, which have introduced restrictive laws limiting the cross-border supply of online betting and gambling services.
In 2003, in the EU-25 commercial gaming industries, lotteries and casinos and betting services were worth some EUR 51.5 billion and there are some 2300 worldwide online casino sites.
I believe it would be good if the Commissioner, on behalf of the 25 Member States, would engage in the campaign to get an international agreement on standards and rules in regulating eGambling.
The Commission has an obligation to ensure that Member States' legislation is fully compatible with the Treaty.
In addition to the seven cases opened in April, the Commission decided, on 12 October, to send formal requests for information related to the gambling sector to three other Member States.
However, in October the Commission also enquired about national legislation in Austria, which prohibits advertisements from casinos licensed and operating in other Member States.
Yet at the same time those Member States are promoting participation in their national lotteries with billions of euros across Europe.
I believe it is sensible and good that the European Court of Justice has struck down some of the restrictions, but I think those guidelines will be important.
The big issue that we have to face is online gambling.
I believe that it is also important for there to be moderate but definite rules in this sector, also involving the European Parliament directly.
On the other hand, there is the market in traditional games of chance and traditional sports betting, which tend to take place in written form.
In contrast to the infringement proceedings opened by the Commission - Commissioner McCreevy, in other words - we should proceed according to the principle that, if the Member States are succeeding in preventing addiction effectively by orienting their national monopolies towards a range of services that is as limited as possible and offers the greatest possible consumer protection, they should be given the chance to retain these monopolies in future - under the control and auspices of European law and the European Commission.
In this regard, online gambling deserves special attention from the Commission and immediately from Parliament, as previous speakers have mentioned and as is clear from the debate.
This issue does, in fact, involve a range of businesses and services: casinos, lotteries and other games of chance via traditional means or via the Internet.
The directive adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in 2000 makes provision for the express exemption of gambling from its scope.
Ninthly, the sale of lottery tickets accounts for 195 000 jobs within the EU.
I should like to add just a few more words to this debate.
In all Member States gambling is regulated to some extent.
The point made by Mrs McCarthy about international standards for online gambling is quite a good idea in itself, but first some form of consensus would be needed among the 25 Member States.
So there is much to commend what Mrs McCarthy says, and if there was a consensus I would like to go in that direction, but my experience tells me that it would be very difficult.
This violates the principle of unrestricted movement of services between Member States, as well as Directive 98/34 EC which stipulates that, prior to introducing regulations concerning information technology services, a state must inform all other Member States and the Commission.
