As I welcome you here in Strasbourg at an extremely difficult time for the Middle East and in particular for your people, the Palestinian people, I remember our last meeting in the Middle East, which took place almost two years ago - at the end of May 2007 - in Gaza.
A very warm welcome to the European Parliament, President Mahmud Abbas. (Applause) President of the Palestinian Authority (transcription of the English interpretation from the original Arabic). - In the name of God, most gracious, most merciful.
You have also seen the Al-Fahura school, which was considered to be safe by the people of Jabalia, who took refuge in it, and how bombshells claimed the lives of those innocent refugees, with the result that over 40 people perished.
This was the aftermath of this war which led to the deaths of over 1 400 martyrs, with over 5 000 injured, the majority of whom were innocent civilians, and a high percentage of whom were children, women and the elderly.
It has also destroyed what the Palestinian National Authority has established over 15 years.
This unjust embargo on our people in Gaza and the war against it was but an episode in a continuous series of measures aiming at separating Gaza from the rest of the Occupied Palestinian lands, and also at marginalising Gaza and marginalising all of our people, and preventing our people from attaining their ultimate goal: an end to occupation, gaining freedom and the right to self-determination and the establishment of an independent Palestinian state on the lands that were occupied in 1967, with Eastern Jerusalem as its capital.
This is confirmed by the escalating settlement policies, despite all the efforts and agreements, including the George Mitchell report in 2001, the last of which was the Anapolis Agreement, which promised the Palestinian people a state at the end of 2008.
What we need is a complete end to occupation - i.e.
We cannot go back to negotiating over partial and ancillary issues, while a solution to the main cause - the end of occupation - remains absent and there is an escalation in settlement seeking to strengthen and deepen this occupation, as well as the arrest of 11 000 Palestinians prisoners.
What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is the reconstruction of Gaza, but also the reconstruction of the peace process.
I should like to say, in all honesty, that our Arab decision is to implement the Arab peace initiative - the Arab peace initiative which is part of the road map, and has become an Islamic peace initiative including 57 Muslim countries.
As soon as Israel withdraws from all occupied territories, 57 Arab and Muslim countries will be willing to normalise their relationships with Israel.
We wish you, President Abbas, every success in all your efforts to bring about peace.
President Abbas, we would like to thank you for your hard work and to encourage you to continue on the road of reconciliation, compromise and peace.
