Green Paper on the European Workforce for Health (debate) The next item is the Green Paper on the European Workforce for Health.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am very pleased to have been invited to make a statement to Parliament on the Green Paper on the EU Workforce for Health, adopted by the Commission on 10 December 2008.
The analysis of the answers we receive will guide us in developing strategies at EU level to support the Member States in tackling these challenges.
The health workforce debate is distinct from the issues covered by the draft directive on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
That Directive also provides for specific obligations for Member States as regards the exchange of information in the case of movement of health professionals.
The Commissioner has referred to the movement of health professionals, and we need to look at ways of making that a reality without endangering patient safety.
We need to look at the safety of health professionals.
The Green Paper is the result of a controversy that arose over the proposals submitted by Mr Bolkestein at the time, and we welcome the fact that the Commission handles it in this way, with due care, with a Green Paper, and with ample room for debate, because there is, above all, much anxiety surrounding this issue, in my view.
A great deal has been achieved in recent years, for example in the area of drugs for paediatric use, a matter in which respect the public is not even aware that there is a problem, but where a European solution is very much on the agenda, because Member States cannot resolve this on their own.
With 27 different systems in the European Union, we are all convinced that our own healthcare model is the best.
You cannot have 27 different systems that are all the best all at the same time.
Nearly 40 000 patients in Europe are waiting for organs, and every day, nearly ten people on these waiting lists die.
Every year, alcohol abuse claims 195 000 lives and costs the European economy EUR 125 billion.
We have to examine whether this should not be better addressed at European level after all.
In actual fact, the Commission should, in those cases, be able to take crisis measures within 24 hours.
It should not come as a surprise, therefore, that the turnover of staff in the sector is very high.
It is also a fact that all too often, the contracts are very precarious, resulting in many people leaving the sector prematurely.
Madam President, the Green Paper on the European Workforce for Health reveals the plans of capital and of the European Union for privatising health and welfare, with painful consequences for working and grassroots families in the health sector.
These changes form part of the more general anti-grassroots reversals in social insurance and social services being promoted in all the countries of the European Union with the active support and complicity of the centre left and centre right forces, which treat health as a commodity, a source of profitability for capital, and patients and their families as customers.
The core objective is to extend the business activity of capital and construct a system in which public-sector health services operate on private-sector criteria, in competition with the private sector.
The central theme of the Green Paper is the mobility of workers and the application of the rules of the Bolkestein Directive in the health sector.
In Ireland last month, 3 500 young people took an exam in the hope of securing one of a few hundred medical school places.
The only way we are going to keep these essential carers is if we support them in their work.
Finally, our health force is more important than ever.
The availability of Europe-wide information is immensely important for the planning and provision of future health workers and for all health authorities. (PL) Madam President, it is very much in our interest to ensure that our healthcare system functions as efficiently as possible.
These include, for example, the question of how we can create the right work environment for workers in order to keep them in their home countries and, also, how we address the very serious problem of the brain drain.
I was in Liberia last week and was shocked to hear that for a population of 3 million, they have only 150 doctors.
Mrs Sinnott raised the very important question of how to train more people and offer people more opportunities to train.
