Their geographical proximity and situation as a transit area between Iran, Turkey, Russia, the Caspian Sea and the Black Sea mean that we have an interest in helping these countries to strengthen democracy and the rule of law in this region and to set up a viable framework for regional cooperation and development that permits political stability.
We are asking the Commission to extend these contacts with civil society, and we particularly support the initiative of undertaking a feasibility study on a free-trade agreement with Georgia and Armenia and of supporting Azerbaijan in its process of accession to the WTO.
As for Georgia, which has undertaken wide-ranging reforms since 2003 and experienced the turbulence we know about, we are pleased that the presidential elections went off peacefully, but the very tense climate and allegations of human rights abuses lead us to ask the authorities to set up an inquiry into the complaints lodged, without delay.
As for the peaceful settlement of the conflicts, this is obviously the condition sine qua non for lasting stability in the region.
In conclusion, I would like to recall that the sole objective of this report is to show our sincere interest in the South Caucasus region, its inhabitants, their history, their goals and their hopes, and that we would like to get to know them better so we can better help them to achieve them.
The report emphasises the strategic importance of the Black Sea to the European Union while defining with extreme clarity the objective of the cooperation policy in this area: creating a common space of security, democracy and prosperity.
The Black Sea region arguably is of strategic importance for the security and diversification of energy supply in the European Union and requires a comprehensive approach with that in mind.
They are two excellent reports that bring to our agenda today, on the one hand, the complex area of the neighbourhood policy and, on the other hand, the question of the Black Sea region.
We concur with most of the opinions contained in the very good report on the South Caucasus.
The inclusion of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia in our neighbourhood policy will, step by step, bring all three of them closer to the European Union on the basis of shared European values.
The Commission will publish in spring its progress reports on the implementation of the three ENP action plans, providing an update on the current state of play in our joint undertaking.
We remain concerned about human rights and media freedom in Azerbaijan.
It is our hope that the European Union will be able to take a more courageous and more proactive stance in supporting conflict settlement in the region.
The upgrading of our delegation in Armenia and the opening of a delegation in Azerbaijan in early 2008 will certainly also allow us to increase visibility and operate more efficiently.
We stand ready to continue supporting Georgia in carrying out these duties in a speedy and in a thorough way.
It provides valuable political impetus for our April communication on Black Sea synergy and I think it is significant that, after the Council conclusions last May and the present discussion in the European Parliament, all the key EU institutions will have reaffirmed the need to implement a regional and a comprehensive approach to our policies applied in the Black Sea region.
As a result of our initiative, EU foreign ministers will meet in less than one month's time in Kiev with their Black Sea counterparts at a Black Sea synergy meeting.
We are also about to initiate a regional dialogue on Black Sea maritime policies and the establishment of regional fisheries coordination.
So the Commission has been developing some proposals for regional schemes to combat climate change and we have also begun the implementation of our Black Sea cross-border cooperation programme focusing on civil society and on local authorities.
The Kiev ministerial meeting will provide a forum to discuss and bring forward and coordinate EU initiatives with ideas coming from our partners.
And it is our expectation that the Black Sea regional context will open up a new space for cooperation based on equal partnership with all eastern ENP countries and important partners like Russia and Turkey.
Our engagement in the Black Sea region can develop into a long-term endeavour with clear potential to enhance stability, progress and prosperity in the whole region, and Parliament's support is extremely important for that success.
rapporteur for the opinion of INTA. - (BG) Madam President, Madam Commissioner, colleagues, the Committee on International Trade congratulates the European Commission and the rapporteur on their timeliness and on their balanced approach to the Black Sea and the region.
The Committee on International Trade calls for a better coordination of cooperation through a separate Black Sea strategy and brings to attention the participation of the Union in infrastructural projects related to the transmission of energy resources.
Firstly, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Polfer, for a very precise analysis of the problems of such a sensitive region as the South Caucasus as well as the proposals and measures presented, which we are considering today.
Rapporteur for the opinion, Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - (RO) Through the accession of Romania and Bulgaria, the Union has become a major player in the Black Sea area.
The ITRE committee stresses the importance of the Nabucco project for the diversification of supply, and calls on the Member States to ensure its implementation, together with their partners.
The ITRE committee deplores the lack of coordination of investment in energy, transport and tourism projects in the area and draws attention to the risk of pollution in the Black Sea.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, we cannot discuss the South Caucasus without thinking of our former fellow Member Ursula Schleicher, who cared about this region in a special way and to whom we are grateful for the fact that the colonialist expression 'Transcaucasus' has been replaced by the term 'South Caucasus'.
The region comprises three very different countries with ancient cultures, which have nevertheless suffered in the recent past under colonialism and neo-colonialism.
These naturally include stable borders, but also the peoples' right of self-determination.
We have to preserve commodity interests and geopolitical interests, but at the same time we must see that these are not colonies, but partners, with their own interests and their own dignity and deserve to have their dignity acknowledged at last.
Therefore, the Polfer report does justice to this difficult challenge in a distinguished manner and I also thank the Commissioner for the enormous effort she is making on behalf of this region.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, the South Caucasus is a region of utmost importance, not only for the European Union, but for most of the global players.
The European Union should not hesitate to use all its means in order to reach its regional goals in South Caucasus.
At the same time we must acknowledge that the other international operators have an interest in the region and we have acknowledged the fact that the European Union could not possibly move its priorities without cooperation with the other global actors.
Therefore, the European Union should courageously address that problem and try to find a negotiated solution concerning the way in which Russia, the European Union and other global players must share responsibilities for guaranteeing the sustainable regional and global stability and security.
On the other hand, we must admit that principles of territorial integrity and self-determination are clashing in the South Caucasus.
What this is about is making transport routes for gas and oil through the Black Sea a reality.
All of us in the European Union say that these are strategic projects, and the Nabucco project is a strategic project.
Azerbaijan alone can supply Europe for five years with one third of the gas that Europe currently takes from Russia, but there is also Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan.
Suffice it to say that in 2006 economic development in Azerbaijan exceeded 35%.
This year, however, may be the watershed; 2008 may be a year of crisis.
The report by Mrs Polfer comes just at the right time because, with the events in Georgia, we can see firsthand the difficulties of building democracy.
It is important to remember that the neighbourhood policies commit us to supporting and accompanying these countries.
For these three countries our support should also be more concerned with resolving the conflicts.
Without a political compromise between Armenia and Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh, without a peace plan between Georgia on the one hand and South Ossetia and Abkhazia on the other, these countries will not be able to restore relationships of trust or establish lasting stability between themselves and with their larger neighbours.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (EL) Madam President, I would like to express our great unease about the developments emerging in this region inhabited by millions of workers of dozens of different nationalities.
As the European Union is interested only in finding ways to infiltrate the region, it is proposing the organisation of a 'three-plus-three' conference on security and cooperation in the South Caucasus, involving participation by the three-plus-three states: the three of the South Caucasus plus the European Union, the United States and Russia.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, the importance of the South Caucasus as an energy corridor for the European Union cannot be underestimated.
If the European Union wants to draw maximum benefit from the South Caucasus as an energy corridor, it is above all essential for internal political stability to prevail in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
The desirability of political stability also applies at regional level.
Brussels is entitled and obliged to engage Turkey, a candidate country, on this issue, as an outbreak of military confrontation in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict is a very real possibility in the long run, given the quadrupling of Azerbaijani military capacity and the increasing external assistance Baku is currently receiving with this. - (PL) Madam President, we are following the situation in the Caucasus with great concern and interest.
I wish to express my support for all the democratic forces in these countries and for initiatives aimed at supporting democracy and economic development for the peoples of the Caucasus.
It is in our interests to support all the peoples of the region, not least in the spheres of human rights and freedom of the media.
I hope that the authorities in Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia will ensure freedom of speech and freedom of the media in the run-up to the elections that the region is looking forward to in 2008.
I also wish to express my doubts concerning the deteriorating situation of human rights and freedom of the media in Azerbaijan.
Let us not forget the small and historic peoples of the Caucasus, the Abkhazians and Ossetians, whose right to self-determination should be taken into account in the framework of multilateral dialogue with the Georgian authorities.
Mutual understanding and dialogue are also required in the situation in Nagorno-Karabakh, where the independent aspirations of the Armenian section of society should be taken into account and reconciled with the expectations of the Azeri populace and nationality.
We regularly dedicate attention to the situation and development of the South Caucasus region.
The fundamental problem is creating political stability in a region bogged down by three conflicts.
Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Ms Polfer for her excellent work and excellent cooperation.
The European Parliament sends out loud and clear messages with this report: the message that the EU should get strongly involved in the South Caucasus, the message that the EU can play a decisive role in the region and the message that the EU should increase financial and technical assistance to help Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan to reform their administration and to develop their democratic institutions, to encourage civil society to interact and to strengthen these nations' commitments to the European values of respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.
The situation is, as I have just said, a step forward, but a lot remains to be done.
Especially with regard to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, I am one of those who support a solution based on the principles of territorial integrity and the right of self-determination.
A 'no war, no peace' situation is a source of instability and, most of all, the EU can and should transfer its experience and achievements in peace-building, economic prosperity and democracy in the region. (FI) Madam President, first of all I wish to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Polfer, for an excellent report, which represents a thorough survey of the situation in South Caucasus and the opportunities afforded by the European Neighbourhood Policy in the region.
Extending the European Neighbourhood Policy to Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia is an important step forward in the Union's engagement with the region.
Developing the visa regime between the countries of South Caucasus and the EU would also enhance trade and economic cooperation, as the Committee on International Trade has stated. - (LV) Ladies and gentlemen, in a situation where, in the South Caucasus, the interests of several influential geopolitical participants are in competition, it is important to distinguish their true influence.
Proof of Georgia's democratic progress is also provided by the presidential elections of 5 January which, by and large, were held in accordance with international standards.
Thank you. (CS) Madam President, to start with I would like to say many thanks to the Commissioner for her reply to my question, which concerned the criminal liability of persons in Georgia.
It is a very sensitive issue, which was also dealt with in the pre-election discussions in Georgia.
The Caucasus is just the Caucasus, and for us it is necessary to understand it in its geographical context.
I had prepared a longer speech, but I will summarise my mission as an electoral observer in Georgia in seven points.
It is possible that this stability will be achieved with the support of the United States or the European Union.
Secondly, it is our duty as Members of the European Parliament to question the use of the financial resources that the European Union provided for relevant programmes.
What I want to say is: if President Saakashvili is suggesting dialogue with Russia, it is necessary for the other party to understand that this is a genuine invitation to dance.
Fourthly, all countries are interested in the Caucasus, including the United States and the countries of the European Union.
Pumping money in now will only further delay the promised funding of the 10 new eastern EU members - a promise yet to be kept.
In this Chamber, I now demand that the EU hold a referendum on the Treaty in all Member States, including the UK.
Ask the people. - (EL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation is quite a mature regional body involved in constant intensive and extensive cooperation.
The BSEC is called upon to play an important role in securing peace, stability and prosperity in regions facing considerable challenges, such as the Balkans and the Caucasus, as well as in the creation of a Eurasian economic area.
Relations between the EU and the Black Sea region have taken on a new dynamic thanks to the Commission's communication on cooperation with the Black Sea region.
This communication bears the stamp of Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner.
Commissioner, I still think that we should be even more courageous and should establish institutionalised cross-regional cooperation between the EU and the Black Sea region. (DE) Madam President, I would firstly like to thank both rapporteurs for their excellent and highly cooperative work.
I would also like to thank the Commissioner, because I know that she is rightly very committed to this area and because I believe that she wants to do even more than many Member States have perhaps wanted.
Whatever you think about membership - I know that there are differing opinions on this - Turkey remains an important partner for the European Union in this region and therefore we must, of course, include Turkey in this matter.
This should not mean, however, that we push aside the independence, autonomy and power of spontaneous healing of countries in this region, and say that we can resolve matters only with Russia.
Russia must also know that we support these countries in their aspiration to independence and also in the resolution of conflicts.
I therefore also propose an alternative solution, namely that nationals of the countries affected in the South Caucasus should have the right, irrespective of the purpose of their journey, to apply for a visa at the EU or Schengen country consulate located within easiest reach of them. - (PL) Madam President, this is an important debate and an important report from Mrs Polfer.
Now at last we have come to understand that Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia are not a natural zone for the economic and political influences of Russia.
I say this also in the context of a political conflict that threatens us all - the whole of Europe - and may even develop into a military conflict between Georgia and Russia over Ossetia and Abkhazia, but Erevan, Baku and Tbilisi are equally of significance for the Union's energy policy and for diversification of energy sources.
That is why, let 2008 be the year of Black Sea action.
In discussing Europe's energy issues, I would like to say that this report carries a very important message: the Black Sea is of strategic importance for Europe because it can serve to increase its energy dependence from one source, just like it can serve to diversify sources...
The lack of identity of the area itself and the traditional sensitivities of certain EU countries towards Russia, both political (for example Ukraine, Moldova, the Southern Caucasus and the frozen conflicts) and economic (the increased European dependence on Russian gas and the delicate status of the EU-Turkey negotiations), are probably among the reasons why the EU has limited itself to synergy instead of strategy.
I believe Europe has a duty to correct that situation and thus continue to encourage and respond to Moldova's efforts to join the Union.
The South Caucasus occupies an increasingly strategic position from both a political and an economic point of view.
By this means we could also acquire a useful and necessary supplement to Russian oil and gas with distribution routes in northern Europe.
The Nagorno-Karabakh conflict in 1991-1994 put a million people to flight, and the conflict is still unresolved.
According to Amnesty International, 600 000 internal refugees are living in appalling conditions in Azerbaijan.
It is also important that we act forcefully to ensure that such a basic right as freedom of expression is upheld.
If Azerbaijan wants to be a nation respected in Europe, it must uphold the fundamental principles of a democratic state subject to the rule of law. . - (PL) Madam President, the problems we are debating today - as those who have spoken before me have said - are of unusual importance.
However, the discussions that stretch out into infinity concerning, for example, the membership prospects for certain countries in this region do not instil optimism.
There is no need for analysis and immersion in documents to be able to state that this region, compared with Africa, for instance, is treated as a remote province of our continent.
Madam President, the rapporteur on the Black Sea regional policy reminds us that the European Union supports new energy infrastructure and viable transport corridors, diversifying both suppliers and routes.
Indeed, South Stream may prove to be USD 4 billion more expensive than Nabucco.
Nord Stream will isolate Poland, the Baltic States and Ukraine; South Stream will play the same role with respect to Turkey, the South Caucasus and, possibly, Romania, which may now be bypassed in favour of Serbia.
If Russia is going to push forward economically unviable and environmentally questionable projects, because they serve its foreign policy aims, then it should not be at our expense. (NL) Madam President, I welcome the fact that this evening we are discussing in context the situation in the South Caucasus and our ambitions as the European Union and as Parliament with regard to the Black Sea region.
These are interests that, in my opinion, must be reflected in a more active policy on the part of the EU and the European Commission.
As other Members have already said, it is important to emphasise that there is also a role for Russia and Turkey in this kind of cooperation.
After all, we have good relations with Turkey - we are conducting negotiations with it about its membership - although Turkey also has a broader role to play in the region, as well as a traditional role.
Russia is important within the region, but relations with that country are rather more complicated.
The European Union's interest and objective in South Caucasus is to support and encourage the development currently under way in the three countries in the region towards the establishment of peaceful and stable countries.
The neighbourhood policy is in operation but it is also necessary to draw up a regional policy to operate alongside it.
This situation should be changed.
All of us are working with the same objective in view.
We must not forget that democracy is not a thing, it is a way of thinking and cannot simply be removed one day or shifted from one country to another.
We are not at ease with everything that is going on in Armenia or Azerbaijan or Georgia, whether it be in relation to combating corruption or the judiciary or the situation of the media in the region.
We know what the local conditions and problems are, and our experience of establishing states based on the rule of law and a market economy would be of practical assistance to them. - (PL) Madam President, in taking the floor in a debate devoted to the countries of the South Caucasus and regional policy in the Black Sea basin, I wish to draw attention to the following issues.
Secondly, only EU support for political stability and democratisation processes in this region, and also the peaceful resolution of conflicts between neighbours, can provide the opportunity for rapid economic development in these countries and a genuine cut in the enormous unemployment and poverty rates.
In your response winding-up this debate, could you refer specifically to paragraphs 29 and 36 of the report?
If we consider two areas, the Southern Caucasus and the Black Sea area, we can see that the mutual relationships between the countries are usually under-developed, whether they are bilateral or multilateral.
I therefore welcome the invitations of both rapporteurs to strengthen this very aspect: mutual regional cooperation in these regions, in addition to bilateral relations with the European Union.
It is vital to strengthen regional cooperation in the area of human and citizens' rights, to develop democracy and educational systems; to strengthen regional cooperation in the fields of transport, energy and the environment; to strengthen regional cooperation in the fields of trade, tourism and investment.
If this succeeds, I am convinced that even in that geographical area the lingering conflicts will be gradually sorted out and finally resolved, and an area of stability, democracy and prosperity will be created. (SV) Madam President, with its clear geostrategic position, the Black Sea region is one which is important to both the EU and the countries in the wider area, not simply for security-political reasons but also because of its cultural diversity and cultural wealth.
By investing in new infrastructure and increasing the spread of suppliers, we shall contribute to economic and commercial development in the region, which in turn will improve the chances of stability and security.
Finally I want to thank the two rapporteurs for their excellent work and offer a special word of thanks to Mrs Ferrero-Waldner for her personal interest and proven personal commitment to matters affecting this region. (BG) Madam President, Madam Commissioner, colleagues, I would like to express my satisfaction with the fact that the two reports, on the Black Sea and on the Southern Caucasus, were prepared and discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs in an atmosphere of agreement, and were adopted practically unanimously.
That is why I think it appropriate to support all transnational projects planned in that respect because they are mutually complementary, and not alternatives.
This will diversify not only the sources but also the routes along which oil and natural gas will reach the European Union.
Madam President, I would inform the Commissioner that, along with several colleagues, I am convinced the EU has to demonstrate increased engagement in the South Caucasus.
After all, all the states in that region are already members of the Council of Europe and, as such, are part of Europe.
Our challenge and chance is to play the role of a reliable stabiliser, but also that of an independent mediator and supporter of the democratic process.
The EU representative, Peter Semneby, has done an outstanding job, and I am glad, Commissioner, that you spoke about increasing and widening our representations in the region.
Equally important, however, will be the EU's role in advancing the culture of democratic dialogue in the region.
The European Parliament will have an important part to play in this.
Members of Parliament can mediate and encourage normal political dialogue between opposing parties.
Finally, it is important that the report encourages the Commission to move towards possible free trade agreements with Armenia and Georgia, and to make preparations for a mobility partnership agreement between the EU and Georgia.
Madam President, the EU is able and willing to help strengthen stability and democracy and improve living standards in the Black Sea and South Caucasus region.
The involvement of large states such as Turkey, Ukraine and Russia is important, although they all have a different status in terms of their relations with the EU.
I look to my colleagues for support for the PSE Group's Amendment 10 to the Black Sea strategy report.
We urge the Council and Commission to decrease visa fees to a more acceptable level for ordinary citizens of countries participating in the EU's neighbourhood policy or having a strategic partnership with the EU. (RO) First of all, allow me to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Anastase, as well as my colleagues on the various committees that delivered their opinions, on the report under discussion, which is as momentous as the problems involved in the establishment of a regional Black Sea policy.
I would also like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Regional Development for their support to the amendments proposed to the opinion of the Committee that I'm a member of.
I am referring to the inclusion in the final draft of the Black Sea report of my request for strengthening the European assistance mission on the Moldovan and Ukrainian border and the need for improved management of illegal migration and immigration in the area.
A more active European involvement would mean a real opportunity for this area which has a huge, insufficiently exploited potential, considering the frozen conflicts and tense relations between some countries in the area.
It is only in this way that the doubling of funds available via the European Neighbourhood Instrument and the principles governing the Structural Funds, such as partnership, sustainability, effectiveness, non-discrimination and decentralisation, will yield the beneficial effects that we all expect. - (PL) Madam President, the rapporteurs cannot hide their satisfaction at having presented the European Parliament with an initiative to strengthen Black Sea synergy, a proposal put forward by the German Presidency and fleshed out by the European Commission.
This idea has also received support from the countries of the southern and eastern part of the Baltic that have recently been integrated into the European Union.
European Union involvement in the Black Sea basin must therefore be shorn of superfluous institutionalisation and political influences, and restrictions threatening an attenuation of the conditions for rational cooperation, and even destabilisation in this region, both in the security sphere and in the sphere of functioning of the communications network, protection of the environment, and so on.
The countries in South Caucasus have certain features which are necessary to the success of European projects in key areas such as energy and transport.
The geopolitical significance of these countries is linked to their strategic position in relation to energy resources in Central Asia.
Two other major players on the international scene have developed strong initiatives as well as long-term strategies in the area.
The United States have an action plan on energy security involving the initiation and development of alternate routes for the transport of oil and gas.
The European Union must develop a single energy security policy as soon as possible, with Member States renouncing individual interests and necessarily involving South Caucasian countries. (BG) Madam President, Madam Commissioner, I congratulate the European Commission for initiating, by its communication, this debate on strengthening cooperation with the Black Sea region by complementing existing bilateral policies by a new regional approach.
I fully share in the understanding that with the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, the Black Sea has acquired a new strategic importance - not just for the countries in the region but for all Member States, and for the Union's policies and principles implemented.
In Georgia we have had the elections, confirmed as regular by the OSCE but challenged by Russia, in which outgoing President Saakashvili was re-elected.
I believe that in the Caucasus region which, as we should bear in mind, is affected by the insidious war between Armenia and Azerbaijan, the Chechen issue, the conflict between Turkey and Armenia and many other problems, having a democratic country which is our ally and, above all, offers an alternative energy source to Moscow, is a factor of strategic importance.
We should therefore take concrete steps to strengthen this synergy. (RO) The Member States and the Commission should step up the implementation of priority projects in the field of trans-European transport on axes 7, 18, 22 and 21 and their progressive integration within TRACECA and with the 5 axes defined in Commission Communication 32/2007 on extending the main trans-European transport routes to neighbouring countries.
The European Union should promote the single maritime policy in the Black Sea region.
I would like to thank the two rapporteurs, Ms Anastase and Ms Polfer, because I think you have brought about a very interesting debate.
It is the regional element and, as was rightly said by some Members who unfortunately are no longer here; it was under the German Presidency, to which I would like to pay tribute, that there was the idea of having a regional dimension.
If you think: we have a neighbourhood policy, we have a particular strategy towards Russia and, of course, we have a candidate country - Turkey.
I shall now come to a few points, because there is such a lot to be said that I could speak for another half an hour, but I do not want to do that, because I think we have had a very interesting debate, and a lot will have to be said in the future.
There are other aspects, but trade is a very important one, and there is a feasibility study on trade already on the way.
Secondly, my personal idea when I presented the neighbourhood policy in one of my last communications - not in the very last but the one before - was to say that we need an economic neighbourhood area, an economic space, and this is also what some Members have mentioned here.
And again, some Member States have already gone for some different ideas, which are not always within our unified approach.
Let me now answer Mr Beazley.
But, for instance, yesterday I was in Madrid, where the Alliance of Civilisations was launched, which is now a project on a global scale, within the framework of the United Nations.
Certainly, one of the local and regional aspects will be this aspect, but I think we should put it into this new global framework.
Therefore, we have created in the neighbourhood policy the Neighbourhood Investment Fund which, in principle, targets the South and the East.
I think these are the major points that I would like to make at this stage, but I am sure we can come back to this topic again, maybe after the meetings have taken place.
I would especially like to thank the Commissioner for making herself available this evening, but also for being available and communicating with us to share information and keep track of this dossier.
Rapporteur. - (RO) I, too, would like to thank all the speakers for their meaningful contributions concerning major aspects of Black Sea cooperation.
I fully agree that a separate policy, perhaps even a strategy, should be developed for the Black Sea region, and I would like to stress once again its importance.
I welcome the organisation of an interministerial conference on Black Sea politics and I hope that one of the outcomes of this conference will be concrete, firm measures concerning all the areas of cooperation among Black Sea countries and between these countries and the European Union.
I won't dwell on any other issues for the moment; of course, the debate has been very interesting, but there is one major idea to reiterate: that this synergy and the cooperation policy in the Black Sea region should not preclude new prospects for accession.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) The report discussing Black Sea synergy rightly elucidates those areas where strengthening dialogue could have mutual benefits for the EU and the states of the region.
The construction of gas pipelines to ease greatly Europe's dependency on energy is inconceivable without the active cooperation of the states in the region.
Developing a transparent, non-discriminatory framework programme for transport is crucial, not only for the Member States of the Union but also for the welfare of the many states in the region.
We cannot emphasise enough the importance of the Nabucco gas pipeline, since it would mean an alternative for Europe, both in respect of resources and partners and in respect of transportation routes.
in writing. - (ET) The report tackles the area on a regional basis, and although this approach has its advantages, it does not allow the differences between the countries of South Caucasus to be highlighted sufficiently.
Secondly, the wording of the report may give the impression that Georgia is the most problematic country in the region; I have also seen this happen in debates in various Parliamentary Committees and in groups where Ambassadors have said this themselves.
In view of recent events, however, this is not in fact true and we know full well that that is the case.
And this too merits greater support on our part.
in writing. - As a Member of the European Parliament from Estonia I am glad to inform you that one fifth of the Members of the Estonian Parliament took part in election observation missions in Georgia.
According to the international election observation mission, the elections held on January 5 were 'in essence consistent with most international standards for democratic elections, but significant challenges were revealed which need to be addressed urgently'.
