Formal sitting - Georgia Mr President of the Republic of Georgia, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you most warmly on behalf of the European Parliament.
We sent a mission of observers to the elections and our Committee on Foreign Affairs had the pleasure of receiving you soon after your inauguration as President, not here in Strasbourg but at our site in Brussels.
It is clear that Russia is now putting great pressure on your country - I can tell you that your country was discussed at great length at the dinner with President Putin - and you now have a great opportunity, on addressing the European Parliament, to explain the situation so that the representatives of the peoples of Europe can hear directly from you about the difficult circumstances being experienced by your country and the problems relating to energy dependency on your great neighbour.
Well, they are now sitting next to each other up there in the gallery. (Applause) I am very proud that our multinational family is represented here today with three generations, including my grandmother.
This is a translation) On behalf of my country, I wish to express my gratitude to all of you - to the European Union, and to you the parliamentarians of Europe in particular - for your existence and your activism.
Georgians have been Europeans since the time Prometheus was chained to our mountains and the Argonauts came to our country in search of the Golden Fleece.
When debates take place about the identity of Europe, if Georgians are European we do not participate in them.
As many of you know, three years ago Georgia was basically a failed state.
Today, three years on, Georgia has changed beyond recognition.
When I say justice, I mean it in the European sense: democracy must be served by an infrastructure of values and institutions that give protection and opportunity to every citizen.
The rule of law must prevail in a transparent manner that is equal to all.
We have made an irreversible commitment to reforming our judicial system and, through strong collaboration with European institutions, we created and are now funding a comprehensive multi-year programme.
In order to provide a social safety net, we have been aggressive and imaginative in our economic reforms.
The year 2004, the first year after our Rose Revolution, was the first time since 1991 that we had a positive immigration and birth rate.
This is the symbol: Georgians like Nina Gedevanovna Ananiashvili, who was a top ballet dancer at the Bolshoi, are coming back and trying to recreate our country.
I would like to share with you a brief quote from the writings of Sir Oliver Wardrop, who in 1888 wrote a book entitled The Kingdom of Georgia.
I believe, as you rightly said in your landmark declarations two weeks ago on Georgia, that the time of 'spheres of influence' is over. (Applause) I would like to thank you for that declaration and for the very appropriate and specific language it contained.
That independence was interrupted 200 years ago with the violent expansion of the Russian empire.
During that period, more than 500 000 Georgians perished in the gulags, including several members of my own family.
I hope one day that Georgians, as well as proud representatives of that then far-away country the Czech Republic, will be equals in the European family. (Applause) Today, because we have chosen to move as close as possible to Europe and to align ourselves with Euro-Atlantic institutions, Georgia is punished.
Just a few days ago Gazprom announced a non-commercial more than doubling of the price Georgia must pay for gas.
Please permit me to make reference to another great European statesman, Konrad Adenuaer, who, in his memoirs had this to say about his situation then: 'We were a small and very exposed country.
When thousands of citizens are forcibly deported from their homes, taken off the streets in handcuffs, we are all deported.
My purpose in travelling here today is to share with you Georgia's European vision.
We are a small democracy which believes that only through and with Europe will our country and region become secure and lasting partners.
Unfortunately, there are many who continue to suffer from these conflicts.
On my way to the European Parliament this morning I met two people from Abkhazia.
The first time was in 1993 and now it is happening again.
No: in such a difficult situation, Georgia must demonstrate calm and show that it can be constructive.
Today, I take advantage of the opportunity of this forum to propose a way forward calling for the strengthening of cooperation between the European Union and Georgia, in particular, by consolidating our cooperation in terms of the neighbourhood policy, and by exploring ways to deepen this relationship so that Georgia may forever become a model demonstrating what the European example can accomplish.
Furthermore, it hopes that your presence and your words in the European Parliament will contribute to improving the situation in terms of relations between your country and Russia.
