Then we were talking about mobility for workers who undertake further training, look for new jobs in their own country, change professions through further training and about geographical mobility within countries, but also cross-border geographical mobility.
This increases growth in the entire region and is good in the long term.
In the most recent budget in the European Parliament we pushed through an increase of EUR 2 million for EURES cooperation.
This can be obtained from the EURES portal.
Lastly, I would also like to raise the question of whether the Commission has ideas about improving mobility in other respects.
There are still a number of countries in the EU that are applying the transitional rules.
It is a system, a unique system, whose great advantage lies in combining a network comprising over 800 qualified advisers with an efficient portal, facilitating easy data access and interactive data exchange.
Since 2006 the EURES portal has offered easy access to all of the job offers in the European Union as well as to the national public employment services in the countries belonging to the European Economic Area in 25 European languages.
On average the portal offers access to more than 1 200 000 offers.
Apart from that, the EURES system could also contribute to a more global solution to the problem of migration from third countries.
Your second question concerns the inclusion of seasonal and short-term temporary job offers in the EURES system.
enhancing the strategic dimension of EURES by reinforcing its analytical potential as regards mobility flows and changes in the European labour market; 2.
We now have as many as 20 cross-border cooperation projects, the latest being the projects between the Czech Republic and Germany and between Slovakia and Hungary.
Apart from that, 14 feasibility studies are being conducted at the moment with a view to identifying new projects and services, be they between the 'new' Member States or between the 'old' and the 'new' Member States.
In any case, 14 feasibility studies are being carried out with a view to identifying new projects.
The partners could consist of trade unions, employers organisations, public employment services or any other participants working at a local or regional level.
If you simply key in 'jobs in Europe', you get a whole list of other portals, such as Eurojobs, Jobpilot, Topjobs, Careers in Europe, etc.
What I am saying in both these points about PLOTEUS and access to the net is: by all means think about opportunities in space, but bring this portal down to earth so that it connects with real people on more occasions.
The role of the EURES network is to inform, advise and assist potentially mobile workers on opportunities to work abroad and on the living, working and studying conditions in the countries of the European Economic Area and to help employers wishing to recruit workers from other countries.
The EURES portal was launched in 2006 and offers one million job vacancies across Europe.
To date, 8 000 employers and 184 000 jobseekers have registered on the portal.
Although the right of free movement while seeking to live and work abroad is one of the basic rights of European citizens established in the Treaty of Rome, many of the old Member States still apply transitional periods for the countries that joined the EU in 2004 and 2007.
According to official statistics, 34 000 workers left Lithuania within four years, but only 405 did so within two and a half years with the assistance of EURES services.
Activities in 2006 indicated that new obstacles to the free movement of labour have emerged; these are practical problems, accommodation, language, employment for a partner or spouse and psychological difficulties while adapting to a new country and planning to return home.
It is gratifying that that the Commission will start implementing an action plan for mobility in 2007, which will help to solve the problems that have arisen.
This should concern citizens of the Member States of the Union in the first instance.
We should discuss general solutions hic et nunc, not half-measures.
The European Union's fourth freedom would only exist on paper if EURES did not exist.
However, it is of course the Member States, first and foremost - and the Council is notable for its absence here yet again - which are applying the brakes.
It is even more difficult for workers in Member States - such as my own country - which still insist on restricting mobility for a transitional period.
However, the battle against social dumping can only take place on the basis of legal mobility.
It is very clear: I have heard that there are 700 EURES advisors, while Mr Špidla mentioned 800 - if we consider this number in relation to 20 million citizens unable to find a job in the 27 Member States, then this is obviously a trifling figure in comparison.
There is a total of 11 000 companies represented on EURES, according to the latest information.
In the last number of weeks, the Irish Government has issued deportation orders for 120 such spouses.
I am convinced that the current Irish law that is operating in this regard is in breach of the European Union Directive of 2004 on mobility and on residency and also in breach of European Union anti-discrimination laws, because this is being applied only to the spouses of non-Irish EU citizens.
In the case of workers from the new Member States, this freedom is being severely restricted, for instance by Germany and Austria.
Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate has clearly shown that EURES is a good tool, which has a function and is useful: it genuinely contributes to the free movement of the labour force, helping mobility, helping people to find out about the labour market across the European Union and find out about their rights.
