We voted for this final agreement because Parliament secured a EUR 40 million increase above the amount provided for in the Council Common Position.
The budget for LIFE+ now stands at around EUR 1 894 million.
I shall therefore be voting in favour of the common project adopted by the Conciliation Committee on LIFE+. (DE) Mr President, we have been equipped with yet another instrument fit for combating the trafficking in human beings and their sexual exploitation, in the shape of the Daphne III programme, but the fact of the matter is that, since over 100 000 women in the European Union are victims of people-trafficking and of violence, this sort of programme needs to be properly endowed.
If that is combined with aid provided under programmes for improving the position of women at risk, then we are, by means of Daphne III, taking a quite vital step in combating violence, people-trafficking and sexual exploitation. (DE) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Gröner report on the grounds that it has certainly succeeded in achieving progress in the fight against the violence suffered by women, and there is no doubt about the role that the Daphne programme has played in that.
This is where Justice must be neither blind nor dumb.
in writing. - (FR) The extension of the Daphne programme for 2007-2013 demonstrates the European Parliament's desire to ensure that this plan, which was implemented in 2000, continues.
I would therefore like it if the European Commission devoted a European year to this type of violence.
I welcome the commitment made by the Commission, which has increased the budget to almost EUR 117 million, even though this amount is lower than the one requested by the European Parliament.
Instead of some of the more far-reaching proposals suggested to us, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed a modest revision of Rule 47 (which would be renamed 'Procedure with associated committees').
I voted in favour of the Laperrouze report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy and amending Directive 2000/60/EC.
This fresh proposal for a directive on environmental quality standards in the area of water policy follows on from the Water Framework Directive, adopted in 2000.
The proposal sets out environmental quality targets for surface water to be achieved by 2015, albeit without any formal appraisal of the various existing laws or an integrated approach to water policy.
We still believe that the limit value for GMOs in organic agriculture must be 0.0%, and that imports from third states must meet the same criteria as products from EU Member States and must therefore be subjected to controls.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the motion that the Aubert report on organic production and labelling of organic products be referred back to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
We abstained from the final vote in view of what has happened throughout the process.
On the other hand, given that it has been possible to improve the Commission's proposal in plenary - even though the Council has not yet given a positive response and has not accepted the amendment to the legal basis - we abstained from the final vote in the hope that it will be possible for further concessions to be made on the proposals that improve on the initial position.
in writing. - (FR) Organic farming now represents 1.4% of the agricultural production of the 25 Member States and 3.6% of the utilised agricultural area (1.8% of the agricultural land in Brittany).
This new regulation must make it possible to clarify the Community framework relating to organic food production, which dates back to 1991.
Finally, the use of GMOs must be prohibited in organic farming.
I supported the resolution on organic food products which builds on the report in March to introduce stricter rules governing organic food products.
The European Community and Greenland have had fishing relations for a long time, but the 1985 framework agreement expired on 31 December 2006.
Portugal has a particular interest in the fishing sector and is therefore in favour of the conclusion of this new agreement.
As Amendment 7 was not carried, the EPLP was left with no option but to vote against the report.
Halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010 is something that should be supported as a matter of principle.
I am also pleased to see that the amendment condemning deep-sea bottom-trawling and other unsustainable fishing practices was carried. (PL) Mr President, the creation of a single market within our community, a very extensive market and one that has gradually enlarged, has brought benefits to all its participants.
in writing. - (FR) This report commits the European Union and its trade partners to the path towards triumphant liberalism, liberalism that goes against the tenets of European trade policy.
The principle of free trade must be a tool used to promote development, not an objective in its own right.
The final text, in my view, dealt adequately with these issues, and offered much-needed opposition to the unilateral review of trade defence instruments.
The debate on the external competitiveness of the EU, or on the EU and the global economy, must be based on realism.
The increased liberalisation of trade must be accompanied by better use of defence instruments to combat unfair trade practices.
The opening up of international trade and market access must be global and reciprocal.
