Presentation by the Council of the draft general budget for the 2010 financial year (debate) The next item is the presentation by the Council of the draft general budget for the 2010 financial year.
The draft general budget that we are tabling represents EUR 138 billion in commitment appropriations and EUR 121 billion in payment appropriations.
The degree of implementation and the absorption capacity have been key factors in our analysis.
As regards payments, the Council believes that certain reductions can be made in relation to the preliminary draft budget, but I would like to stress that our draft nevertheless represents an increase in payment appropriations of 3.2% compared to 2009.
The Council therefore secured a margin of around EUR 310 million in its first reading.
The institutions' requests for additional posts for new activities were not accepted, except for the new agencies that are planned for 2010 and for Frontex.
Turning to the actual situation following the Council's first reading and the establishment of the draft budget for 2010, the Commission acknowledges that the cuts proposed by the Council are less severe than in previous years.
Although the cuts in Headings 1B and 2 are regrettable, I am partly reassured by the Council's proposed declaration on payments and by the second opportunity to examine the needs for agriculture in the upcoming letter of amendment which the Commission will present at the end of October.
Under Heading 5 (Administration), the Commission was particularly modest in its PDB requests with a proposed increase in the Commission's administrative expenditure of only 0.9% compared to 2009.
While this point has been acknowledged by the Presidency, it is rather disappointing that the Council has introduced further cuts to the Commission's administrative budget.
I also expected that the current financial crisis would not only reduce production and increase unemployment, but also provide us with an opportunity to improve the European Union's budget through reform measures.
The new Secretary General of the European Parliament and his colleagues discovered this and implemented measures which will bring annual savings of more than EUR 2 million.
Between the joint decision on the multiannual financial framework taken in May 2006 and now, there has been the financial crisis, the very strong pressures on the price of energy, raw materials and even foodstuffs, and the negotiations on climate change.
Mr President, we have heard from both the Commission and the European Parliament that we will have several difficult issues to deal with during the autumn.
Another issue that we face, both in the short term and in the long term, is, of course, the climate and the financing of climate policy.
We wish you much success, both in the Commission and in the future.
