Information provision and promotion measures for agricultural products (debate) The next item is the report by Bogdan Golik, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation on information provision and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries - C6-0203/2007 -.
To take the example of wine, we have allocated EUR 120 million every year specifically for promoting our excellent European wines in third countries.
rapporteur. - (PL) Madam President, effectively, this proposal for a Council regulation on information provision and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries is intended to harmonise and achieve technical consolidation of two regulations currently in force.
That is why we cannot allow promotion and information action to be sidelined.
The 2007 budget for promotion activities only amounts to EUR 45 million, and is decreasing year on year.
Every effort should be made to avoid a situation in which provisions on resources for promotion are unduly dispersed.
In conclusion, I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to thank the members of the Committee on Agriculture who unanimously adopted this report, the European Commission representatives I met with repeatedly, the 24 Agriculture Ministers from whom I received letters on this subject, and also the relevant national and European sectoral organisations.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I wish to thank Members for their contribution to this very important debate.
I hope that we can all agree on the fact that it is important that we have a budget available to explain to consumers the high quality of European products, both within the European Union and on the overseas markets.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 12 December 2007.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, we all agree that information actions and promotion of agricultural products on both the internal and the external markets are essential.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, the report we are today discussing on the promotion of agricultural products should contain the word organic in its title.
