Statement by the President-designate of the Commission (debate) The next item is the statement by the President-designate of the Commission.
Yet this crisis is not just a financial, economic and social one.
That is why I believe that we must put our European social model, our social market economy, at the heart of our response to this crisis.
There is the financial crisis, but also the energy crisis.
Now is not the time for the status quo, or routine.
We need a Europe that is uncompromising when it comes to defending its values and its interests, which rejects protectionism of all kinds, but without being naive, and which can demonstrate this proactive spirit.
The mandate of the Commission over which I currently preside was that of the first Commission of the enlarged Europe, of the great Europe of 27.
I believe that, now we have consolidated this Europe, we have the conditions in place for a new ambition: a new social ambition, because there is a crisis and unemployment is the main problem facing Europeans; a new ambition regarding the fight against climate change, an area in which we already play a leading role; and a new ambition in terms of the way we deal with globalisation.
First of all, the basic line: as we fully implement our recovery plan in order to move out of this economic and financial crisis, we must keep an eye on the future.
We must reinvigorate our inclusive social market economy.
That is why, apart from all the decisions already taken and proposed in terms of structural funds and in terms of doubling our balance of payment support for some countries in difficulties, I want to commit myself to using all the instruments at my disposal to help those Member States with serious budgetary constraints - namely the new Member States - back onto the road to recovery.
Yes, we need to map out a genuine European agenda.
Yes, we need an integrated vision for a coherent European strategy, a European Union 2020 strategy that builds on open markets by combining new sources of sustainable growth, employment and social cohesion, our climate and energy security agenda, a fresh approach to industrial policy and a move to a knowledge society.
I stand for a particular emphasis on innovation and support measures for SMEs.
Yes, this means overhauling the Lisbon Strategy after 2010.
Yes, we need a much more integrated approach to the economic, social and environmental strands of the different strategies.
I said in the guidelines that the economy needs a financial system that is more ethical, robust and responsible.
Next week, on the eve of the G20 meeting in Pittsburgh, the Commission will adopt proposals to build a true European system of supervision - a system that reflects the integrated nature of our single market.
A review of our action in three years will provide an opportunity to see what further action is needed.
That is why I am committed to proposing, as soon as possible, a regulation to resolve the problems that have arisen.
Let me be clear - I am committed to fighting social dumping in Europe whatever form it takes.
The issue of social impact assessments for all future proposals was also raised and I agree that this is needed.
The first test case for such a social impact assessment should be the revision of the Working Time Directive.
In the guidelines, I emphasise the importance of services of general interest for our European model of society.
The Lisbon Treaty makes this point very clear and I am ready to work with you to develop a quality framework for services of general interest.
In my guidelines, I express my determination to make the Lisbon Treaty innovations in international relations, including the European External Action Service and the post of High Representative and Vice-President of the Commission, work effectively.
I believe it is one of the greatest innovations of our Lisbon Treaty and I am committed to reinforcing cooperation with the European Parliament in the field of external affairs in general.
The European Union must have a more transparent and efficient way of financing its policies and I am ready - I hope with the support of this Parliament - to take this battle to the Member States as we reshape the Union's budget.
We need solidarity when we have to give support to our Baltic friends or countries affected by the gas crisis between Russia and Ukraine, but we also need solidarity when we have to give support to our Mediterranean friends when they are facing challenges with which they cannot cope alone.
I think we have a lot to do in this field.
I believe that, from fighting climate change to energy security, the potential is there if we want to work together in research and innovation for Europe.
In order to realise this ambition, I have suggested a special partnership between Parliament and the Commission.
We represent the two European institutions par excellence and this gives us a special responsibility to create a true European public space for debate.
As President of the Commission, my party is Europe.
Only with this cross-party support, however, can we, in fact, have a strong Europe and a strong Commission.
We need a Commission that delivers on its promises.
If you want a strong Commission that sometimes stands up to Member States and to national egoisms, you should give the Commission the strong support it needs.
We all have our different political, ideological positions and we come from very different political families but I believe that, in times like the ones we are living in, in times of crisis, apart from our convictions, we also need a strong ethic of European responsibility.
Let us embark on this European journey together. (Sustained applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last June the people of Europe confirmed their support for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) by making our group the leading force of this Parliament, for the third time in a row.
I, for my part, am proud that the PPE Group made this choice and, dare I say it, I am proud that it took this risk.
He has proved himself on the energy and climate package and he has enabled Europe to become the world's pioneer in the fight against global warming.
It is Europe and the Barroso Commission that are showing our US and Asian partners the direction to go in at the G20.
That is why my group hopes that President Barroso will form a new Commission and set to work as quickly as possible.
As for you, Mr Barroso, if, as I hope, a majority of MEPs give you their support tomorrow, this will not be a blank cheque.
You know this, but it is my duty to tell you again here.
We have faith in you, but have no doubt that we will also fulfil our duty as legislator under the partnership that you will propose.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been asking myself in the last few days why a candidate who is so controversial across all the groups in this Parliament causes so little controversy in the Council.
If I had been a head of government, I would also have elected José Manuel Durão Barroso.
In July, we saw a possible majority form in this House on the basis of different considerations among the various groups, which Guy Verhofstadt brought together into a reform-based, pro-European majority.
This resulted in the vote being postponed until September and other things would perhaps also have been possible.
It may be that you have a majority tomorrow.
It is true that it is about you, but it is also about the question: Barroso - yes or no?
However, it is also about another issue.
In this case, the Council and, above all, this Parliament are also involved in making the decision about the composition of the College and about the portfolios which you will make available and about the programme for the next five years that you will present.
It is about you, but it is also about the question of whether we finally manage to regulate the internal market and the financial markets and about whether we finally manage to put a stop to cheap labour in Europe, which is destroying the social cohesion of our society.
It is also about whether we manage to bring about a change of direction in the European Union which the Commission, as a whole, must support.
It must not be the case that the Commission will not rest until the last public cemetery in Europe is privatised.
We also need a change of direction on wage policy in Europe.
However, I expect you to say it once.
The objective of the Commission, particularly following the verdict of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in the cases of Viking, Laval and Rüffert, must be equal pay for equal work in the same place for both men and women.
This is what we will judge you on. (Applause) Therefore, we can see a connection between tomorrow's vote and the final vote on the Commission.
However, with regard to your balance sheet for the last five years and to what you have presented us with thus far - I am not talking about what may happen in future, but what is currently on the table - I can say one thing to you with certainty: you do not have the support of my group. (Applause) I would like to inform you that we have a new rule of procedure.
I ask you, how many members of your parliamentary group - Socialists, Portuguese, Spanish or English - have already given their support to the new candidate, irrespective of the opinions that you yourself hold, Mr Schulz? (DE) Mr President, I must admit that I do not know the fellow Member.
We will decide this evening on the final vote for our group.
Mr President, since the start of this appointment procedure, as you know, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has said that what is at stake here is the programme for the next five years, that this is not a question of people or of personalities.
Secondly, at the request of some of my colleagues, our group has also debated at length whether we should wait before taking a final decision.
However, we felt that, once the candidate had presented his guidelines, there was no point in saying once again that we were going to wait a few weeks or months.
We are going through an economic and financial crisis, therefore we need European institutions and we need a Commission.
Not 27 different plans, as we have today, but a common, consistent approach set out by the Commission.
I heard, Mr Barroso, that you said in our group that you were prepared to submit proposals concerning both this new integrated Community strategy, which goes beyond the 27 national plans, and this European stabilisation of the banking sector.
Our support is very clear.
Lastly, our support will also depend, as you know, on the new structure of the Commission.
We want an effective Commission, with powers distributed more evenly than was the case in the past and, in this context, we are also counting on the promise that you made to our group, namely that a particular commissioner from the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, with responsibility for fundamental rights and civil liberties, will be given a place in your team.
It is important that this commissioner be jointly responsible with the other commissioners, and not just someone who gives them opinions.
That is why, for the common good of Europe, we need more audacity and a more ambitious Commission, and we hope that you will ensure this and hope, too, that in your definitive programme you will fulfil our expectations.
I was part of the electoral campaign in France.
In France, we were told, during the electoral campaign, that, on the banks, look to Mr Sarkozy, on climate change, look to Mr Sarkozy, on change in Europe, look to Mr Sarkozy.
All I am saying is that this place, right here, is a place where we have the right to say anything.
Mr Barroso, explain something to me.
With the crises, and this is to your credit, we never said that you were a man of dishonour, we merely said that, seeing the way in which you, Mr Barroso, have led this Commission, we do not have faith in you.
So at least thank us for having given you the opportunity to present your programme.
You tell us: 'it is absolutely necessary, because we are in an economic crisis, you will see what happens'.
We thank God that today, we live in a Europe at peace.
The crisis is affecting us all, and all of us must fight the crisis.
Mr President, in giving you support on behalf of our group, I would like to appeal to you to ensure that, in the coming months, Europe does not remain indifferent to what is happening in world politics.
The President of that country not only denies the horrific crime of the holocaust, but also threatens Israel today with destruction.
We also expect - and I am pleased that this always comes through strongly in what you say, Mr President - that the foreign policy of the European Union will always be a banner for citizens' freedoms, and that it will also promote our common European values beyond our borders.
I am sure that you did not manage to avoid making mistakes in the previous Parliamentary term, but then no-one who is involved in politics avoids making mistakes - that, unfortunately, is the way things are in this world.
However, in the hard work which you do undertake, we are counting on you to hold high the banner of European values, and to work for the good - and I would like to stress this - of a common and united Europe.
We say that the political system, including the policies of the EU Commission, was responsible for promoting casino capitalism.
The political system must take responsibility, learn from its mistakes and give up its neo-liberal ideals.
However, I am pleased that in your remarks today, social issues were given greater importance than was the case a year ago.
You want to adhere to the Lisbon strategy.
However, the people of Europe need good jobs at wages which will allow them to live with dignity.
In the Zimmermann report, the European Parliament calls for a minimum wage of at least 60% of the average income in all Member States.
You maintain that you can do nothing about this.
We want a social pact to replace the Lisbon strategy and the Stability Pact.
You believe that a few new financial supervision regulations will keep the greed of the financial world in check.
We want a social Europe instead of a continuation of the radical focus on the internal market.
We stand for intercultural, multilateral dialogue and the greatest possible support for developing countries in overcoming the economic, food, financial and climate crisis.
But there is a rather important point being missed here: you have been the boss; you have been the governor for the last five years.
The French said 'no' and the Dutch said 'no', but you refused to accept these democratic results and you took part, with many Members of this Parliament, in the absolute deceit that is the Lisbon Treaty.
No, you rebranded it as the Lisbon Treaty but you could not stop the Irish from voting, and the Irish said 'no'.
Well, you might argue that there is not much democracy left in the European Union now, but there should at least be some degree of accountability, and I would argue that, on the eve of what may well be a fourth rejection of this Treaty, the one that kills it off for good, this Parliament should not install you as Commission President for the next five years until we have that result.
I am sorry that the commissioner is not here now to hear me speaking in defence of human rights and civil liberties.
These rights are necessary so that people can express their views, in other words, enjoy the freedom of opinion, the right to free assembly and freedom of speech without being labelled as fascists, as actually happened here today in this chamber, or shot in the eye, intimidated by police brutality, maltreated, put in prison or subjected to sham criminal proceedings.
The first thing is self-evident: José Manuel Barroso has been unanimously nominated by 27 Heads of State or Government with various political affiliations.
He has our clear support to lead the Commission for another term.
We need a strong Europe with an ability to take action and one in which the European Institutions function properly and are able to cooperate.
The Commission does not and has never advocated the privatisation of public services.
We believe public services are an important part of our European model of society.
What we believe is important is that those public services work in the framework of a strong single market in respect of Community rules.
This is very important.
Let us be frank about it: sometimes some national politicians, when there is a problem, say it is the fault of Brussels and when they have success, say it is their merit.
The second point is about posting of workers.
I come from a country where there was a time when there were no civil rights or social rights, so I know what it means to have access to those social rights.
So let us try to reconcile both principles in a way.
However, we must fulfil our commitment regarding climate change: everyone acknowledges that we are the world's leaders on this issue.
This is important.
I am in favour of green growth, of viable growth, but I am not in favour of the deindustrialisation of Europe.
I am proposing to you now a new ambition for Europe.
I make no apology for having the support of the 27 Heads of State or Government, who were democratically elected and who are on all political sides, of course, because I believe that my role was essentially to bring people together.
I call on you to give strong support to a Commission that is in favour of more ambition, of more determined progress, and of a European project of solidarity and freedom.
As I said then, Mr Barroso, I read your political guidelines for the new Commission with considerable interest and I actually found that much of the rhetoric contained in the guidelines reflects my own beliefs and political priorities.
The crisis is calling for much bolder and more far-sighted policies than you have in mind.
I have listened to what you have said very carefully again today on the response to the Laval judgment in relation to the Posting of Workers Directive.
The question 'Why now?' has already been covered here.
I would like to say a few words about the comments made here on the political situation.
We believe in equality for all people in Europe.
I regret that you have not acknowledged, recognised or addressed these current developments in your guidelines and you have not brought forward proposals for greater involvement of countries and regions which have legislative powers in EU decision making, something which we in the EFA see as crucial.
I read President Barroso's political guidelines with great interest.
The work done by President Barroso and Commissioner Verheugen in this area has been significant.
On the issue of climate change, it is the case that the EU has shown leadership in international negotiations in this area and it must continue to do so.
I welcome the emphasis President Barroso has placed on the need to show how fighting climate change can help to modernise our economies.
I do not hide the fact, and confine myself to pointing out once again, that the EU has continued to function perfectly well without the Lisbon Treaty in the past three or four years.
You like the Commission.
Finally, President Barroso, no EU taxes, thank you; we already have enough taxes. (Applause) (ES) Mr President, I wish to direct my comments to Mr Barroso.
However, you have just totally surprised me.
We represent many European citizens and you have demonstrated contempt for all our voters.
Secondly, your political plan is weak and your political proposals in the document 'Political guidelines for the next Commission' are poor.
I am surprised that issues such as energy which, throughout your term of office, have been well handled, are now, when you are offering your proposals for the next ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PT) Mr President, Mrs Malmström, President Barroso, I shall begin by offering you my congratulations.
Unfortunately, President Barroso, in a democracy you cannot please everyone.
Other people compare you with the past, forgetting that today there are 27 Member States whose interests have to be reconciled, not just 12 any more, and that, fortunately, this Parliament has greater power and interinstitutional cooperation is more demanding.
The world is not waiting for us.
I welcome what you have just proposed to us regarding working together, bringing this Parliament and your Commission closer together for the sake of our common Europe.
It is time for this Parliament to give the Heads of State of different political families a reason to unanimously reappoint you to head the Commission.
My colleague, Stephen Hughes, has already referred to the fact that the first Barroso Commission has failed to deliver much of what you had already promised.
It has already been made clear that tomorrow you will receive support from many people who have nothing to do with these substantive objectives.
You will receive a lot of support from those Members of Parliament who have prevented these objectives from being achieved or have rejected these objectives, for example, in the case of the Posting of Workers Directive and the public services measures, and who have been strongly in favour of privatisation.
Many of us would be prepared to support you, if the Commission had a clear position on the social dimension.
We also believe that it has been unable to use the power conferred on it by the Treaties, this right of initiative which, in times of crisis, should be a real duty of initiative.
This Europe needs a vision, it needs powers to think and to produce a new development model, and it needs new solutions to economic issues: how can we achieve more industrial and budgetary integration; how can we prioritise the long term over the short term; how can we ensure, for example, that the banks are there, firstly, to support businesses, households and European investors in the area of regulation; how can we put in place a European regulator who can discuss social issues on an equal footing with his or her US counterpart; how can we implement a pact on employment; how can we achieve more upwards harmonisation in the monetary field; how can we use and demonstrate solidarity; how can we achieve, in the future perhaps, a further enlargement of the euro area, including in the area of sustainable development; and how can we make this transition work, not only in Europe but also in developing countries?
We need collaboration on tax in Europe, which will put an end to tax dumping.
This allowed the European Union financial sector to invest most profitably in those countries.
Moreover, a senior civil servant of the Commission has openly participated in public rallies of organisations campaigning for the Lisbon Treaty.
The EU has certainly achieved that: 27 states in 50 years, and the Lisbon Treaty - if ratified by Ireland - will mark the death of their national sovereignty and the launch pad for the European Union takeover.
In the EU, human rights - whether individual or collective - take second place to solidarity for Europeans.
We reject the Lisbon Treaty and President Barroso's vision of it. (DE) Mr President, we need a revolution in democracy.
However, we do have specific expectations of you and, of course, of the future Commission during this second period of office.
Our demands are focused on the future but, of course, we have five years' experience behind us and therefore I would like to highlight briefly the changes we would like to see.
In our opinion, the last five years have brought high points and low points.
We want to ensure that some of the things that are important to us are achieved and I am sure that you will take that into account.
We need an industrial base in Europe and the problems of the world, such as hunger, poverty and disease, can only be solved if Europe is a strong economic power with a base of this kind.
The citizens must lend their support to Europe.
Consequently, our European citizens not only lost trust in the European institutions but also their hopes and passions.
In complete fairness, we must also admit that you cannot be held solely responsible for that.
It is paradoxical, at least, that today, the European Parliament as a communitarian institution, rather than consolidating the democratic legitimacy of the future president of the communitarian institution that is the Commission with an overwhelming 'yes', should, through this candidate, challenge the intergovernmental institution that is the Council.
We have guarantees that clarify matters for the Irish people, and we also have a guarantee that we can keep our Commissioner. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr Kelly, I am sorry but this is a new procedure but we have to apply it correctly.
Regarding Mr Hughes' questions, I think it is important to clarify those issues that are very important for your group and for me, and for our commitment to a social market economy.
In any case, I have said that, if necessary, we can look at revising the directive.
On Laval, Commissioner Špidla, a member of your Socialist family, has, in agreement with me, conducted a very complete search for practical solutions.
The diversity of labour law in the Member States means that a Laval situation can arise in some Member States but not in others.
Mr Špidla has carried out that analysis, and that is why I can now propose a solution, trying to get a broad agreement in this Parliament.
I can tell you very frankly that it was a very hard fight to get some Member States to send competent women to the Commission because they did not want to send women.
As you know, the initiative on that comes from the Member States.
I am committed to doing my best once again.
Once again, however, please also work with your Member States so that they do not resort to this routine, because for 50 years, some Member States were incapable of making one single proposal for a woman for the Commission.
I am committed to social and economic cohesion, and that is why I believe this caricature that some try to present is damaging Europe.
After the election, and with this diversity of views, it is important that we work together for Europe.
On the one hand, you say that you want a strong Europe, you want a strong Commission, you want me to stand up to some Member States that are going national, but at the same time you say 'We are not going to vote for you.
If you want a strong Commission that has all the rights and initiative to defend European interests, at least give me the benefit of the doubt.
We are living in difficult times and I have made an honest offer to you, a loyal offer to all Members of the Parliament, in full transparency.
Mr President, Mr Barroso did not reply to my charge of interference by the Commission in the democratic process in Ireland on the Lisbon Treaty ... (The President cut off the speaker) (FR) Mr President, Mr Barroso, I have a problem which means that I am not going to vote for you tomorrow, but you know what it is, since my group has explained it well.
Between 2002 and 2006, 728 people were transferred to Guantánamo via Portuguese airspace.
You were minister from 2002 to 2004.
The next decade will decide where Europe is going to be.
But history is knocking on our door.
We know also that he is the lowest common denominator among the governments of the Member States.
The present situation is not satisfactory, but rather grey, because, in spite of all the declarations and apparent goodwill, the progress made in terms of energy infrastructure and crisis mechanisms is far from sufficient.
Let me emphasise that such leadership should be based on a consensus that you have to lead and build in the Parliament and Commission as well as in the Member States.
As you know, this idea was launched here in Parliament three years ago, but there is still a long way to go and we still have to wait for this dream to come true.
I hope that by the end of this legislature, President Barroso, you will make this miracle happen and that you will be given the chance to do so.
This was not the case 20 years ago, either, when Europe was divided into East and West.
You need to do more in this regard.
You need to do more in this regard.
The economic crisis cries out for a global new order, with balanced regulations enabling us to deal with the climate crisis.
Also, why do you not mention specific targets for green professions and other such initiatives, not so that you become 'green', but so that you at least indicate which way is the way out of the crisis? (RO) Mr Barroso, I read your document but, quite frankly, I will vote for you tomorrow because I believe that Europe needs a religious Christian man like yourself, with this kind of upbringing.
In short, it is not just a yes to Mr Barroso but a yes to a clear and simple recipe: a Commission created with a contribution from all of you means that that Commission will be more independent, more efficient, stronger and, in other words, more European. (SK) I would like to discuss a topic which is causing concern to many people in the European Union, including myself.
These people are fighting for their work, for their existence and for their children, and it is precisely this fear and worry which creates such fertile ground for the growth of far-right extremism in the EU and in the Member States.
I look forward to this relationship continuing and my constituency benefiting from it.
Secondly, it is clear that we need the European Union, strong institutions and a Commission that knows where it is going.
I would stress that immigration does not impact solely or mainly on our security, but on our values and our capacity to correct inequalities at source.
As a result, tomorrow's vote will not mark the end of a process, but rather the first step or starting point in a huge task that the new Commission must take on so that, in defiance of those who want the paralysis or retreat of the European Union, it can give a new impetus to a much better Europe than the one we have known in recent years.
The first element is that of democratic consistency: with regard to the choice of the 27 Heads of State or Government who chose you unanimously; with regard to what we said during the electoral campaign - it was not so long ago - and with regard to the citizens' vote.
We need strong institutions.
The third reason is a contract of confidence that we have signed with you.
In the face of this, the most serious and most profound economic, financial, food - let us not forget the one billion starving people in the world - and environmental crisis, we need the Commission to show its fighting spirit.
We need you, and us with you, to learn all the lessons from this crisis, in terms of governance, regulation, innovation and new policies - I am thinking of the idea of a European savings bank to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the strategic sectors - and, with regard to the most profound crisis, the environmental crisis, to introduce a new model of economic and social growth, of green growth, as you yourself said.
This was the case for the financial crisis and the same holds true for immigration policy: the safeguarding of fundamental rights and compliance with Community law must represent two sides of the same policy.
You have a majority here in Parliament, a right-wing majority, and clearly we are unable to identify with this majority.
I understand the difficulties of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and the Democrats for Europe but, Mr Verhofstadt, do not tell us that the coherent approach that you called for in order to emerge from the crisis consists of the speed with which the Barroso Commission will be formed.
I hope that by using the same methods, a similar success will be achieved in securing the required volume of gas at a time when there are countries in the region which want to make their sources available for this project.
The future Commission must create an internal energy market, effective competition and a high level of supply security for all Member States.
I also want to draw your attention to the still fragile political situation and the difficult economic situation in the Republic of Moldova.
Support needs to be given urgently to the new political authorities in Chişinău to help them get through this difficult situation.
You thought that the passage before Parliament would be a mere formality: it is not so, and this is just the beginning, for your response does not meet the expectations of the citizens, who are suffering in the crisis and who have demonstrated their anger towards our institutions through their low turnout.
You say that the crisis has changed you and you pose as the great navigator of a united Europe, but you have not been able to guide the Member States towards a truly European recovery plan, and we are still awaiting the concrete and binding measures needed for financial regulation.
We have not forgotten that, over the last five years, social issues have never been at the heart of the proposed solutions, and it is only now that you are agreeing to a social impact study for each piece of European legislation.
In a period of unprecedented crisis, which is destroying hundreds of thousands of jobs, everything must be done to ensure that the number of European unemployed workers or working poor does not reach 25 million by 2010.
The citizens need to be set an example of solidarity in order to combat the crisis.
In our view, the last two months have been a lost opportunity to tackle the economic crisis - and we, the Dutch, are in a hurry.
Madam President, we are indeed living in extraordinary times, but Mr Barroso's response to the economic crisis lacks strength and impact and his promises on social Europe have not been kept.
Mr Barroso, your political guidelines provide little illumination as to your plans and drag out much of the same rhetoric used five years ago.
Of course we need a strong and vibrant internal market bringing jobs and prosperity, but this must go hand in hand with improved social rights in Europe for workers and citizens, not at their expense.
Despite strong pressure from this House to correct this imbalance and calls for a review of the Posted Workers Directive, for social impact assessments and for a more ambitious economic recovery package, we are still waiting.
Your answer to my question on this issue last week sounded like warm words, yet you admitted that the Directive falls short of its aims.
I hope we arrive unscathed: financially, economically, ecologically, demographically, even in terms of energy, migration and security, and not forgetting globalisation, the food problem, the fight to preserve our social model - in all these fields we are in the throes of transition.
One thing is certain in this regard: only if we take a European approach to the challenges, only if we tackle them with a solid, well-oriented European programme - which you have, Mr President-designate of the Commission - and if we have strong institutions to work with, can we help shape the future ourselves and further develop our socially and ecologically adjusted market economy.
We have no time to lose - 'we are in a hurry', as my neighbour has just put it - and for this reason, too, we must press on with the matter of a new Commission.
I believe, Mr Barroso, that your next mandate will be decisive for consolidating this new institutional balance between the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
Our support is not, therefore, a blank cheque, but an investment.
Before I finish, I would like to emphasise that I have made a note of what you said today, your commitments for the future.
However, you can also count on a relationship that will certainly be loyal, but very demanding as well during your next term of office.
I wish you good luck and success in your work. (DE) Madam President, Commission President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, what is tomorrow's vote all about?
It is, in fact, about taking responsibility for Europe.
It is about taking responsibility for Europe's ability to act during a difficult time, in order to overcome all the problems which have been the subject of justified criticism from citizens and also from this Parliament.
However, I would like to point out, Mr Barroso, that there is, of course, a whole series of subjects on the agenda which need to be dealt with and you have a great deal of responsibility in this area because you have a monopoly on launching initiatives at a European level.
However, there are also other challenges which affect our citizens in their daily lives and which therefore deserve to be addressed.
Moreover, there is the Lisbon Treaty that will bestow new and important powers as well as grant a much greater role to this Parliament in this area.
Madam President, Mr Barroso will have our support tomorrow, not only because you are nominated by all 27 Member States, Mr Barroso, and not only because we need to start work, but also because you have presented a broad political agenda that addresses the main challenges of our time.
Of course, we all have different views on that.
We will call on initiatives from you and your Commission based upon the majority of this Parliament, not by trying to impose minority positions, and we will discuss and scrutinise your proposals and take decisions based upon the majority of this Parliament.
We are confident not only in you, but also in this Parliament.
The Committee on Petitions is the first point of contact between the European institutions and citizens.
The Union must have the financial resources for its ambitions.
Some of my fellow Members have already stressed this point.
It is vital, in my view, Mr Barroso, that we see you undertake to encourage the Member States to increase their contributions to the Community budget substantially from 2014.
All the same, we must look ahead to the post-crisis period and start work now on a Community budget that will meet the needs of European action.
We shall support you because we hope that you, Mr Barroso, will continue as President of the European Commission to work for a fairer Europe.
We also expect that you will take the leadership role in reform of the common agricultural policy and in securing the possibility of fair competition for all Member States.
That is why we are calling on the Commission to promote a sensible, flexible approach to the application of the conditions of the Stability and Growth Pact and the Maastricht criteria, appropriate to the crisis.
I am convinced that the earlier inclusion of the Baltic States and of all European countries in the euro area is in the interests of Europe as a whole.
Above all, I should like to remind you of the support of the President of the Republic and of the French Government and to applaud the way in which you were able to contribute to the success of the French Presidency.
Mr Barnier and all of my parliamentary colleagues from the French presidential majority now expect that our mission to build a political Europe that can influence the major global issues of the future will be taken up and shared by your Commission.
In order to build this political Europe, Mr Barroso, two pitfalls must be avoided in our view.
Firstly, to implement a really purposeful policy in favour of our industries, of our territories and of everything that forges a European identity.
Mr Barroso, today's young people need a Europe that supports them in globalisation and that embodies a new hope, and, as the youngest of the French MEPs, I am thoroughly convinced that these young people want a Europe that both protects them and offers them a new ambition.
In the future, it is our task to build Europe together.
I am counting on you just as you can count on me. (PL) Madam President, Europe is united.
We observe human rights and we want to realise a programme of social market economy - a programme which puts people at the centre of our attention.
We have many very poor regions, and there is, therefore, a need for a genuine Cohesion Policy.
In my view, there is no longer any need for proposals for new programmes because actions speak for themselves and I hope that the Finnish Commissioner, Olli Rehn, will also enjoy a good and strong position in the next Commission.
Most important of all, however, is that tomorrow we will vote in favour of your being able to establish a new Commission.
Madam President, Mr Barroso has spoken quite often about the extraordinary times we live in, the important issues faced and the leadership the EU has to show in the financial market sector.
I would not dare to do so, but if we are leading by example, and, if we are putting down ideas between Parliament and the Commission about the ways we can see of regenerating new growth and about being innovative within the new economy, then the Member States must also step up to the plate and take those actions.
Finally, it saddens me, at a time when there are unprecedented economic difficulties throughout the globe, when we in Europe are seen to take the lead with regard to banking regulation and other areas like that, that we have lost the opportunity because of juvenile political games among certain groups. (ES) Mr Barroso, you are regarded as a champion of environmental protection, and I congratulate you for it.
In this respect, we are facing a serious problem with the environment.
Madam President, I am very confident that Mr Barroso will tomorrow secure another five-year mandate as the next president of the Commission.
I also believe that the EU will operate more effectively if the Lisbon Treaty is passed in my country.
The ratification of the Lisbon Treaty is a green shoot in itself.
The investment community and people who create jobs want the Lisbon Treaty enacted.
The fact that we in Ireland, since the last referendum, have secured the right to nominate one member of the European Commission into the future is a serious change.
Personally, I would like to see a young Commission President who takes on the role with plenty of creativity, with the courage to make major changes and, above all, with independence: someone who turns Europe into a true democracy.
My second question is the following.
In other words, does this provide us with a basis for talking here in Europe about national cultures, languages and diversity?
I would draw your attention to the fact that, at the end of 2004, the Commission - my Commission - made a recommendation on excessive remuneration, not only in banks, but also in the economic system in general.
They are on the table: a recommendation, but also a binding part of the Directive on capital requirements for banks.
When there was the problem between Russia and Ukraine, President Putin decided to call me specifically to inform me of that problem, and you know just how much time and energy we at the Commission, together with other partners, have put into trying to find a solution to a problem that concerned Russia and Ukraine but which has had consequences for European consumers.
I personally am very committed to these issues.
That is why, I might add, we launched the interconnections programme in the Baltic states, and that is why it was the Commission that broke the deadlock on the Nabucco issue - and let us be clear, it was completely deadlocked.
I shall therefore include these issues among the Commission's main priorities, but there is, in fact, resistance to the creation of a real internal energy market.
What is more, I believe that this problem of energy security is also crucial to the issue of combating climate change.
I will say it again, in particular for the benefit of the Members of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance: one can always be more ambitious but, frankly, I believe that we should welcome the fact that the European Union, acting on the basis of a Commission proposal, is spearheading the fight against climate change.
All the Member States made an effort, but it was on the basis of an ambitious proposal by the Commission that we were able to conduct this fight against global warming, and I am very much counting on your efforts so that we can keep Europe in the vanguard of this fight.
With regard to the social issues, I have already said my piece: I have already given some very concrete undertakings on the issues relating to the posting of workers and on the problems concerning public services.
I will be willing to work with you on these principles that I have mentioned and that I have spelt out very clearly today: against social dumping, for the social market economy.
I am well aware that this is an interesting ideological debate, but I believe that we have the answer in Europe.
It was created by Europe, particularly after the Second World War: not only the European integration process, but also this social market economy aimed at combining free markets, open markets.
We Europeans must therefore reject protectionism and, at the same time, must promote the European social dialogue model, the European social security model.
President Obama is currently attempting - I wish him well - to introduce a national health care system, which we have practically everywhere in Europe, with some differences.
They are starting to talk to us about combating climate change.
In terms of political will, we must work harder to achieve more consistency.
They are on the table.
Furthermore, one Member of this House applauded our measures to protect bluefin tuna, and I thank them for that.
I also believe that, as in the national systems, where there is normally a minister for justice and a minister for the interior, we should have a commissioner in charge of justice, fundamental rights and freedoms.
There will be another commissioner - because we must also be serious about this, we must also see that there are problems to do with insecurity in Europe and that there are things that we can do together with the added value of Europe - who will also look at other issues, but always with the same spirit: the spirit of security, with full respect shown for individual freedoms and with full respect shown for fundamental rights.
On the subject of fundamental rights, I believe that we may have certain disagreements, but that there are no fundamental disagreements with some of the Members who raised this issue.
Therefore I do not need anyone's advice on how to show commitment to fundamental rights.
We set up a special working group and, back when a dialogue had not yet been established between the parties, we helped to bring about this reconciliation.
If you look at the statistics, the truth is that, until the financial crisis, employment was rising everywhere.
There was job creation and growth in Europe.
It is the global financial crisis that has put us in a different position.
Mrs in 't Veld told me that I had not convinced her.
You are very difficult to convince, Mrs in 't Veld.
I will do my best, but I will tell you one thing: I will always do my best, not just to convince you, but because I genuinely believe in fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees.
We do not want relocation, but it is important for this industrial base to adapt to the new constraints of global competition and, above all, to the major challenges of climate change and of more sustainable growth.
With regard to the budget-related question that someone asked, let us try, above all, to reach a consensus on the main principles.
For the benefit of the youngest member of the French delegation, I hope that the young people of this Parliament will support this movement.
Someone asked me a question about the global financial tax, about the tax on financial movements.
I think that it would be an excellent idea but, in any case, let us be clear: I see no point in driving out the financial services that we have now in Europe, whether they be in London, Frankfurt or Paris.
I believe that there are already quite a number of reasons in favour of that: to prevent, for example, starvation in the world, for it is scandalous what is happening in the 21st century; to help Europe achieve the Millennium Goals; and to fight for more solidarity in Europe.
You may not know, but I proposed to the Council that we increase a facility that we have within Europe to provide food aid, because there are poor and newly poor people in Europe, but it was rejected.
To conclude, I would like to say something very important to you.
I fully understand, as Mrs Estrela and others have said, that the support of those who will be willing to back me is not a blank cheque.
I was elected for the first time to the Portuguese parliament when I was 29 years old.
I would also like to thank Mrs Malmström for being with us in this session.
Please remember that the President-designate has told us about the directions of political action for the next five years.
He has done this here, in Parliament, where he has met with all the political groups.
He has given us information which is very important, both for us and for our citizens.
This was a great opportunity to have your political guidelines and discussion in political groups and also in the plenary session.
In my opinion, it would be wrong to blame Mr Barroso personally for all the troubles that have characterised the previous period.
The idea of a genuine partnership between Parliament and the Commission is a commendable one and is an opportunity to be seized.
I also hope it will effectively respect and make use of the principle of subsidiarity, and will choose the safety and solidity of taking small steps, as recommended by Jean Monnet, rather than adopting the fast-track approach that has promised much but contributed little to the real progress of the European project and dream.
The statement that Mr Barroso has just made as President-designate of the Commission is a reaffirmation of the basic pillars of the European Union that we know.
They come, in fact, after the anti-democratic pressure exerted by European leaders - which he observed - on the Irish people, who are being forced to have a new referendum, to be held on 2 October.
Mr President, I would like to guarantee President Barroso my support as the European People's Party's delegate, and express the hope that the present Europe Commission will be able to continue the job which has been started involving the social integration of the Roma.
I hope that the creation of a new commissioner's portfolio for justice, fundamental rights and civil liberties will encourage the Commission's organisation to do more and in a more coordinated manner.
Since that is the case, having a validated Commission whose president has been elected or a provisional Commission in which this decisive decision is always being postponed makes a difference to how effectively the European Union can combat the crisis.
This objective will be achieved by adapting to the new conditions of the anti-labour Lisbon Strategy by 2020 and through an even more vicious attack on the workers' labour, wage, social and insurance rights.
