Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (NL) Mr President, the vote on the Corbett / Méndez de Vigo report that has just been held is a further confirmation by this Parliament of the attitude we have been taking for a very long time now: that of total disdain for the democratically expressed will of the majority in France, the Netherlands and elsewhere.
Mr President, I voted against the report because, once again, the political elite of the European Union is trying to ram through the Constitutional Treaty without consulting the peoples of Europe.
I say to you, the European political elite, that if you think you are building a European project but are building a European project without the will of the people, then you are in fact building a castle made of sand.
Mr President, in my eight years in this Parliament, I have heard some rather absurd claims made in this Chamber, but a special humbug prize must go to the assertion that what we just did in pushing through this Treaty by a huge vote represented a free exercise of will of the peoples of Europe.
Pactio Olisipiensis censenda est! (FI) Mr President, I would like to give a brief explanation of why I abstained.
The declaration calls for the introduction of a minimum wage in Member States that do not have a minimum wage. (DE) The Austrian People's Party Europaklub in the European Parliament voted enthusiastically in favour of the Corbett/Méndez de Vigo report because the Lisbon Treaty strengthens the citizens of Europe, the Member States and the European Union.
Mr President, I want to say I voted against the report on the Lisbon Treaty.
I am very, very sorry for this day and I am very sorry for the broken promises of the Labour Government. (PL) Mr President, in the vote on the Lisbon Treaty I was obliged to abstain.
These countries have made huge progress on the road to economic development.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats voted in favour of the report on the Treaty of Lisbon today.
We chose to vote against the first part because we consider that there are differences between the old treaty and the Treaty of Lisbon, for example in the Charter of Rights, which lays down among other things the right to take strike action in accordance with national practice.
We wish to point out that this view is shared by our political group in Parliament which chose to vote against the proposal because the report concerns the treaty and not the Laval case.
in writing. - Although UKIP rejects the Lisbon Treaty, we abstained on amendment 31 because we do not agree with the justification for the amendment.
I still firmly believe that, as President Sarkozy was not going to organise a referendum, abstention was the position the Socialists had to take in the French parliament.
The Treaty is far from perfect, but it enables us to bring the institutional debate to a close and equip Europe with rules that allow it to function.
However, because I want this text to be passed so I can get fully involved in the forthcoming negotiations on policies, because my 'no' more than two years ago was pro-European, I am shouldering my responsibilities and approving the Treaty of Lisbon.
in writing. - (PL) I abstained in the final vote on the report on the Lisbon Treaty, because the report has gone well beyond the agreements reached at the EU summits in Brussels and Lisbon.
in writing. - (PT) The Treaty of Lisbon is the best compromise for overcoming the institutional crisis and bringing greater flexibility to the decision-making mechanisms that are essential for an enlarged European Union of 27 Members to function in today's globalised and constantly changing world.
The European Parliament has just approved the Treaty of Lisbon, though nobody was asking it to do so.
The MPF delegation in the European Parliament now wishes all the freedom-loving Irish luck: their referendum will not be theirs alone, they will be voting on behalf of everyone who has not been given the chance to do so, particularly the French, whose vote was cast aside.
Only the Member States can ratify it.
It strengthens the institutional power of the Union.
It enables the Union's Common Foreign and Security Policy to develop to ensure that Europe's economic and industrial power is reflected in global politics, and in particular will allow the EU to play a key role in tackling global warming.
I voted 'yes' to the Treaty of Lisbon because there is - unfortunately - no alternative.
It is not with a 300-page mini-treaty that is as unintelligible as it is obscure that the EU will win the trust of its citizens, particularly as the multiple opt-outs will lead to a Europe of constant deadlocks, or even a 'variable-geometry' Europe.
This new Treaty is just a last resort.
It is only here and in 'Sarkozia' that it can be said that the Treaty of Lisbon is fundamentally different from the European Constitution, when the vast majority of EU heads of state and government and the father of the Constitution itself, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, state the exact opposite.
in writing. - (SV) The majority of this Parliament is showing once again how divorced from reality it is.
The entire process surrounding a new EU treaty has been a disgrace.
We want to see a new treaty that is based on the EU being a forum primarily for intergovernmental cooperation.
We have therefore voted against Parliament's report on the Treaty of Lisbon.
On the other hand, it omits: the militarisation of the EU within the framework of NATO; the liberalised single market with its free movement of goods, capital and services in which competition is paramount; Economic and Monetary Union with its euro, its European Central Bank and its Stability Pact; and the liberalisation of international trade as EU policies and objectives.
in writing. - I am voting plus for this amendment, even though the Lisbon Treaty can only come into force after it is ratified by all Member States - it therefore automatically respects the outcome of Ireland's referendum.
in writing. - (SV) As before in matters in relation to the EU's new treaty, I chose to differ from my group and voted against the report on the Treaty of Lisbon.
However, I believe that the proposal strengthens the primacy of EU law over national law, that more power is taken from the Member States, and that the larger countries are given more power than the small countries.
I chose to vote against the amendment proposing that the EU decide on referendums throughout the Union because I believe that it is for each Member State to decide this itself.
The reason I did so was that the conclusions that arise from this report go significantly beyond the framework adopted during the talks at the summits in Lisbon and Brussels (13 and 14 December 2007).
in writing. - British Conservatives voted against this report.
in writing. - I voted for this report, not because I consider that the Lisbon Treaty amendments offer the way to a European Union which is firmly based on a commitment to sustainable development, peace and human rights rather than the market and competition, but because I consider it does have factors which are more positive than our current Treaty arrangements.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of the report on a European Parliament resolution on the Treaty of Lisbon because this Treaty is vital to Europe's further development, and that is absolutely necessary for the further blossoming of the Austrian welfare model and the security of our citizens.
in writing. - I voted against this report in order to register my objection to the arrogance and disregard shown by political leaders throughout the EU towards the wishes of EU citizens, and to state very clearly that I believe the people of the EU should be given a referendum on this issue.
As a key architect of the original text, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, himself has said that 'The proposals in the original Constitutional Treaty are practically unchanged.
The eurosceptics should be pleased with the concessions: the delay of its entry into force, the retention of unanimity in 72 cases including taxation and the adoption of the multiannual financial framework, derogations, opt-ins and opt-outs, particularly for the UK, and the possibility of 'voluntary withdrawal' from the EU.
in writing. - In this report on the Treaty of Lisbon we clearly see that the Treaty will bolster the democratic credentials of the EU.
With greater involvement from both National and European Parliaments in decision-making procedures, we are giving the European people what they have always asked of the EU: a greater voice.
The Treaty's focus on efficient and coherent policy-making, highlighted in the report, will give us the ability to face ever tougher global challenges.
I voted in favour of this report and would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on what is an excellent report on a very sensitive and pivotal issue for the future of the Union.
The hallmark of the draft Constitution voted down by two Member States in 2005 was that it responded to the desires of big business, national governments and the majority in national parliaments, but had little support among voters.
They do see Europe as useful in resolving cross-border problems peacefully and in tackling large-scale problems that individual Member States cannot solve alone, but they do not see the use of a Europe that increasingly takes the place of the country in which they live.
Imperialist infighting has been temporarily covered up in order to launch an even greater onslaught on workers' rights and freedoms, and to stage an increase in monopoly profits.
in writing. - (EL) The Lisbon Treaty is a step backwards compared with the European Constitution.
We have called for referendums to strengthen public dialogue and citizen participation.
We, the SYN (Coalition of the Left) and the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left, say no to this Treaty: in our daily struggles we are clearing a different path for the EU.
Such a Europe is active and independent in its handling of the problems of world peace; it is not at the beck and call of President Bush.
The right of the Bundestag to decide whether the German Federal Army will be deployed in other countries is significantly undermined.
The new Article 62 of the Reform Treaty is designed to effect 'the gradual introduction of an integrated management system for external borders'.
in writing. - (PL) I voted with profound conviction against the Lisbon Treaty, as it violates the principles of democracy.
It is a treaty full of lies and contempt for the voice of the peoples of Europe.
Such an important legal act, of constitutional rank, should be adopted in this particular form.
The scandal is that this Parliament has rejected Amendment 32, obliging the result of a referendum in Ireland to be respected.
Moreover, we have voted in a document that we are not yet familiar with, since there is still no printed consolidated text of the Treaty in the languages of the Member States.
I do not wish to have anything to do with such a democracy, and President Pöttering's derisive comments after the vote show that democracy in this Parliament, as in Europe, too, is dying.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I strongly oppose this report.
I therefore welcome the fact that, together in the European Parliament, we adopted the report on the Treaty of Lisbon.
This means a clearer decision-making structure and more power for the EU's only popularly elected assembly, the European Parliament, a strengthened common foreign policy and new posts, such as the High Representative for Foreign Policy and the President of the European Council.
The treaty means sweeping changes and I therefore support the proposal for a pan-European referendum, an interesting alternative to a Swedish referendum which I think is necessary to give the citizens the opportunity to express their opinion on matters which are of crucial importance for them.
in writing. - This is a very historic moment, the moment when the European Union attempts to drag itself into the 21st century.
We must all remember that what we have here is a reform treaty and an amending treaty that will ensure that an EU of 27 can work effectively and, more importantly, work closely with the citizens of the European Union.
I will support this report in the hope that this will send a message not only to our citizens but to our member state Governments that this Parliament is serious in its desire to see a more accountable and more effective European Union.
in writing. - I would like to add my support to Commissioner Wallström's point on ensuring that women are represented in the four senior posts in the EU.
One important element is the strengthening of the role of both the European Parliament and national parliaments, as well as the introduction of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
in writing. - (SV) The constitution should be rejected.
It is notable that in all these areas Britain has been a driving force throughout the development of the EU.
Sweden's citizens have voted 'no' to the euro and it would only be reasonable for the next treaty to make clear that Sweden is not required to participate in monetary cooperation.
In the first place, we think it should be up to each country, in accordance with its practices, traditions and specific needs, to decide how to organise, collect and compile the relevant data, although we would acknowledge that sometimes it is necessary to have agreements in order to have comparable data and carry out comparable studies for various countries.
in writing. - (SV) This report recommends that Member States' population and housing censuses be harmonised to a degree that is slightly absurd.
We have therefore voted against both on Parliament's amended proposal and in the final vote.
We chose to vote against it in the final vote.
The Member States are capable themselves of dealing with matters relating to population and housing censuses and this is an area in which the EU does not need to interfere.
in writing. - The accuracy and reliability of information on population and housing is essential for effective policies to be implemented at EU and national level.
in writing. - I welcome this proposal for a regulation on population and housing censuses.
For these reasons I voted against the legislative resolution.
In this respect, we in Europe, especially in the larger urban agglomerations, are sitting on a powder keg that cannot be underestimated.
It is very important to have reliable data on population and housing in the European Union, since those data are of paramount importance for planning, administering and monitoring various policies, which frequently contain a European component.
I therefore think that this proposal is of considerable political importance insofar as it helps us to meet more precisely the criteria for democracy, development and cohesion in the European Union.
The voluntary annex, which provided for the collection of microdata and questions on extremely sensitive topics such as sexual behaviour and literacy, has been deleted entirely.
For example, the regulation contains our amendment referring to the observation of data protection provisions both in the Member States and at EU level.
With this extra support to bolster it, the regulation now delivers what it was meant to - that is, not the collection of new data, but simply the standardisation of the collection of statistical data on the most important social and economic characteristics of regions that is already taking place at national level, in order to be able to make comparisons across Europe.
in writing. - (SV) Explanation of vote concerning the proposal on population and housing censuses.
Today the European Parliament decided at first reading on the Commission proposal for a new regulation on population and housing censuses.
However, the final result is extremely far-reaching in terms of the information that is required.
It is very startling that our Commission is presenting a proposal that includes such intrusive questions and which in practice amounts to registration of citizens.
However, I chose to vote against the proposal in its entirety as it still goes too far.
in writing. - British Conservatives have consistently supported the aims and the core policies of the Lisbon Strategy.
We have voted in favour, once again, of this annual motion for a resolution on the Lisbon Strategy to show our continued support for the underlying reform agenda.
In particular, we are absolutely against the additional social measures (except for pension portability) set out in the original version of Article 41.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the resolution on the Lisbon Strategy and the input to the Spring 2008 European Council, since I think that the renewed Lisbon Strategy enhances the ambitious objectives relating to European society as a whole, which seem essential for facing the opportunities and challenges of globalisation, demographic change, social imbalances, climate change, energy security, food security, economic growth and the integration of immigrants.
Strict implementation of the Lisbon Strategy will therefore be decisive for buttressing Europe's competitive position in the global market through job creation, poverty reduction and social inclusion.
in writing. - (PT) First of all, we regret that the motion for a resolution which we presented on the Lisbon Strategy was rejected, which is all the more serious just as we are embarking upon the final cycle of the Lisbon Strategy.
in writing. - (PL) The resolution on the Lisbon Strategy contains many important provisions for business people and consumers.
It is therefore important to draw up joint proposals and solutions for the current situation so that all EU consumers might have the benefit of new and modern products at a price that matches the purchasing powers of the average consumer.
I abstained from the vote on the resolution on the Lisbon agenda.
I was somewhat surprised to read paragraph 3 in particular.
This fragment of the resolution is very important, but sadly the conclusions are not optimistic.
This means that our work lacks points of reference.
We do not know whether we are forging ahead or standing on the spot.
The European Institute of Innovation and Technology is a central component in achieving more for our economy, more for science and more for sustainable jobs in Europe.
The Austrian Federal Chancellor, Mr Gusenbauer, must also be involved in setting the time frame, since Austria submitted a very appropriate application.
in writing. - (EL) The centre-right and centre-left political groupings are competing with each other over which can lend more support to the interests and choices of big business.
They are even surpassing the Commission in promoting the anti-worker, anti-popular Lisbon Strategy.
Employees have endured seven years of implementation of this strategy.
This is why they are rejecting the Lisbon Strategy and opposing the interests of capital.
Although I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the majority of the parliamentary groups, since I agree with the constructive approach and the essence of the recommendations, in particular with regard to the need to boost investment in research, innovation and development and policies to promote knowledge, in the opening of markets and greater flexibility, with security, in labour markets, I still cannot help thinking that some of the data presented in the alternative resolution give cause for concern.
in writing. - (SV) A resolution on the Lisbon Strategy will inevitably be sprawling if all the matters of the heart are involved.
This can also be seen in the final result.
As the report states, we are not building the future on protectionism and bureaucracy but on openness, access and good conditions for both workers and businesses.
However, I want to make clear that my vote in favour of Amendment 12 should not be interpreted in any way as support for establishing minimum wages in the EU.
I also made this clear today in Amendment 32 in the report on the Integrated Guidelines for Growth and Jobs, which dealt specifically with that issue.
in writing. - The Lisbon Strategy is essential for the future success of the EU.
in writing. - (RO) The resolution regarding the Lisbon Strategy expresses the European Parliament's wish to ensure a decent living for all European citizens by creating new, better paid jobs and by increasing the investments in research, innovation and an information society.
Point 37 of the resolution emphasizes the importance of the transport policy for combating climate changes and requests that the Trans-European networks should be subject to an adequate assessment regarding their environmental impact.
in writing. - (SV) The Lisbon Strategy has now been in operation since 2000 and the Member States have not yet seen any clear results.
There are aims in the Lisbon Strategy that are good and worth developing, such as the proposal for greater investment in research and development.
I have therefore chosen to reject the proposal in its entirety.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have chosen to vote in favour of report 29/2008 in its entirety.
However, we voted against Amendment 32 tabled by the Green Group on the subject of minimum wages as a part of the European model.
We understand that the issue of minimum wages is important in many EU Member States.
in writing. - (PT) Giving voice to the interests, aspirations and demands of major employers' organisations, the majority of this European Parliament is insisting on the Lisbon Strategy being fulfilled, in line with the European Commission's economic guidelines and with the deepening of the associated neoliberal policies.
To ensure that the Member States achieve such objectives, they are recommending greater control and pressure on those States, as if they had no share in the responsibility for adopting those guidelines.
The problem is that these guidelines have been the same for the last 15 years: employment flexibility, immigration to renew the population and provide cheap labour, deregulation of public services, wage restraint, Malthusian budgetary policies, liberalisation of external trade, competition, etc.
It is time for us to ask: is it because the Member States are not diligent enough in obeying orders that things are going badly, or rather because they are too diligent and the orders are not the right ones?
in writing. - (SV) This own-initiative report addresses several challenges faced by the future Europe, such as increased globalisation, an ageing population, and climate change.
However, it is for each Member State itself to decide how to formulate its policy in order to meet the future challenges.
The most successful solutions emerge through institutional competition, examples that can inspire and stimulate voluntary measures in other Member States.
in writing. - My group tabled a number of amendments on important issues such as climate change, fairer wealth distribution and fair pay, which I voted for.
The unfinished business of building an EU internal market means that the potential for enterprise and creativity in a Community of 27 countries is not being fully utilised.
in writing. - I welcome the report on the broad economic policy guidelines for 2008-2010.
in writing. - (PT) Since the point at issue in this report is, specifically, the national implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, I really must present a more detailed assessment here of my concerns, as a Portuguese MEP, about my country's failure to achieve the Lisbon Strategy - either in terms of results or measures.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of Mrs Starkevičiūtė's report.
Therefore, we agree with the proposal not to change the text of the broad guidelines for the economic policies in the next three-year cycle, in line with the Council's conclusions.
This new cycle should therefore hinge on the implementation of reform and the achievement of concrete results.
in writing. - (SV) Today I voted in favour of a report which sets out the Integrated Guidelines for Growth and Jobs for 2008-2010.
I have therefore voted with the Greens, for environmental taxes at EU level, even though as usual I defended the independence of the European Central Bank against their recurrent attacks.
in writing. - On paragraph 26, the amendment refers to a common consolidated corporate tax base.
I abstained on this point.
I voted for recital 26, as proposed by the Commission, because it emphasizes the need for a "coordinated fiscal framework, which should include a tax system favourable to companies, in particular to small and medium-sized companies, and geared to renewing economic growth and generating employment”.
Consequently, I voted for this report with the conviction that the economic security of all the European citizens, social inclusion, gender equality and the creation of a market economy will make the Union become an economic and social model in a global context.
Projects such as the extension of the Odessa-Brody pipeline to Gdańsk, or the Nabucco pipeline, are no longer very realistic as a result of the actions taken by Russian companies dominated by the special services.
I would like to congratulate Mr Özdemir on his own-initiative report on an EU strategy for Central Asia.
It is also important that this report underlines the need for progress on democracy, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law in the region, and this point is key, as far as I am concerned.
The report quite rightly calls for differentiation in the EU's policy towards each country and I cannot but approve the fact that criteria such as the human rights situation in the countries in question and their respect for OSCE commitments are highlighted.
The text is also keen to stress the importance of these countries for the EU, both now and in the future, particularly as regards trade and energy.
in writing. - (PT) In line with what has been approved by the majority of the European Parliament on the EU's external relations, we have yet another report consisting essentially of a collection of measures for interfering in third countries, without concealing - quite the reverse - the clear objective of obtaining, within the economies of those countries, conditions favourable to the interests of the large economic and financial groups.
in writing. - I wish to congratulate my colleague Mr Özdemir on his report on Central Asia, to which I gave my full backing.
in writing. - (CS) What was the legacy of the Soviet Union in the countries of Central Asia?
This brings us to the direct responsibility of the EU and the US for supporting the establishment of authoritarian regimes in the countries in that region.
Notwithstanding all the criticism of the countries of the region in the report, we must always remember the difficult historical conditions faced by these countries in the course of their development.
The EU must help them to overcome the results of many years of negativity created by the presence of the large EU states and the US in neighbouring Afghanistan.
There is no reason to favour Turkey as the main potential mediator for a positive influence in the region.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of the proposal for an EU strategy for Central Asia, since the five republics there receive Official Development Assistance and the European Union has a particular responsibility to support these countries.
I would like to highlight the role of the European Union as a mediator between the countries of Central Asia, balancing out the significant differences between the five republics in terms of political, economic and social conditions.
It is important to me that my vote for an EU strategy for Central Asia is also a vote to improve living conditions for the people of Central Asia with regard to social, health and legal aspects.
in writing. - Mr Özdemir's report on the EU's strategy for Central Asia deals with a key issue on the EU's foreign policy agenda.
I welcome its emphasis on attending to human rights in the Central Asian region; an emphasis that the EU should apply to its external relations more generally.
There exists little evidence of democratic advancement in the region, notably Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, and any EU strategy for cooperation should attempt to engage these states in a drive towards the concept of democracy.
Firstly, in terms of human rights and democracy, the abuse of many women (forced marriages, sexual exploitation, rape, etc.) and child labour in the region are totally unacceptable.
Finally, Central Asia will not benefit from effective integration into the world economic system until all five countries in the area have joined the WTO (the Kyrgyz Republic has been a member since 1998).
The EU's strategy for Central Asia can make an effective contribution to the economic and human development of this region of the world.
The European Union must not neglect Central Asia, which is a strategic crossroads between Europe and Asia and a traditional partner in trade relations and energy cooperation.
That is why I voted for the report.
It would also make sense to speed this up in order to keep abreast of developments.
As regards the role of women, there is sufficient need for action in other regions of the world, not least the entire Arab world, where the need is far more urgent.
Secondly, the fact that Europe must, as a result, keep a watchful eye on this part of the world, and encourage its integration into world trade and the international economic system by supporting the candidacy of those countries in the area that are not yet members of the WTO.
in writing. - (PT) The European Union has tried to establish close relations and dialogue through its neighbourhood policy.
In the case of Central Asia, the drawing up of the new strategy and partnership with five new States is helping to promote greater stability, socio-economic and democratic development and security throughout that part of Asia.
We note that there is a global interest in stability in Central Asia, since serious and prolonged crises in that region could have disastrous consequences and affect the EU and its Member States.
I think that the future of those relations aiming at greater stability and security and increased political, economic and social cooperation, must also take into account the human rights situation in each country and the strengthening of trade relations and energy cooperation, as well as paying attention to development needs and the commitments undertaken as regards improving the living conditions of the citizens of the region.
