This report concerns an extension to a regulation that has existed since 2004 and that compensates those new Member States whose interest substantially exceeds the EU average.
The cost of an extension amounts to approximately EUR 10 million per year.
I have therefore chosen, in spite of everything, to vote in favour of this report. (DE) Mr President, although it is very difficult to give a statement of vote with all this noise going on, I would like to say that I abstained from voting on the grounds that I find this state of affairs unsatisfactory.
Prudential assessment is thus seen as an obstacle to cross-border M[amp]A, following a Commission survey presented in November 2005 on barriers to consolidation of the financial sector within the internal market.
It is for this reason that I voted against this report.
in writing. - (PT) In a perfect market, both the economic performance and the social or environmental impact of a company would be taken into account in determining its worth and its public image.
With the bicentenary of the abolition of slavery being remembered on 25 March, we need to do all that we can to combat modern-day slavery.
in writing. (DE) My reason for rejecting the Howitt report is that the most essential characteristic of Corporate Social Responsibility is voluntarism rather than dirigisme.
It is a principle that is increasingly being challenged in our society due to the mobilisation of Islam in Europe, and this mobilisation of Islam and its effects on our values and our civilisation is indeed something about which a great deal can be said.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the Sartori report on a roadmap for equality between women and men (2006-2010).
in writing. (SV) Gender equality and women's vulnerability in both private life and the life of society as a whole are among the greatest issues of our time.
in writing. - (FR) The fact that we are discussing gender equality 50 years after the Treaty of Rome is not an illustration of success.
This principle has been enshrined in the Treaty since 1999.
Even though we do not agree with everything that is in this report from the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, we still want to send a message that, in the area of gender equality, 50 years after the Treaty of Rome, a great deal can, and indeed must, be done.
I voted in favour of adoption of the report by Mrs Lévai on the Commission Recommendation of 18 October 2005 on collective cross-border management of copyright and related rights for legitimate online music services (Recommendation 2005/737/EC).
This House is now right to conclude that the Commission, with its recommendation of 18 October 2005 on 'collective cross-border management of copyright and related rights for legitimate online music services' has gone too far.
I voted in favour of adoption of the report by Mrs Lévai on collective cross-border management of copyright and related rights for legitimate online music services.
