Parliament has been calling for many years for antibiotics to be banned as growth-promoting additives in animal feed, and today we are going to make it a reality in Europe.
The use of antibiotics as growth-promoting additives in the fattening of livestock will now be banned in the EU once and for all with effect from 31 December 2005.
I think - and this is an important point - that, in the sphere of business competition, we should also, in the European Union, be aware of the fact that there is such a thing as corporate know-how, and protecting this corporate know-how, should be a matter of major concern to all of us in the political sphere.
Our intention, Commissioner, in this time-limit in Amendment No 16, is to bring sufficient pressure to bear on the pharmaceutical industry to get them to produce suitable alternative products or, instead, to develop new vaccines.
Today's vote will see us making a definite advance in the protection of consumers in the European Union, and I very much hope that, at 11 a.m., every side of this House will be able to come together to vote accordingly. .
The new system has an in-built review and re-evaluation process in order to take new scientific information into account.
According to interim findings published by the Austrian health ministry on 16 June, no harmful residues have been found to date as a result of the testing of turkeys from food markets.
If that result is confirmed, then prohibitions to protect human health may no longer be proportionate even under the broad terms of the European Court of Justice's ruling of 11 September 2002.
Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert, in your first reports, you had proposed a tougher approach to the registration of manufactured substances and to the timing of such registration, and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development did of course fall in with this proposal.
In the throes of a codecision procedure, a large group like the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has the opportunity of using its large quantity of votes to prevent us from obtaining the 314 votes we need and, through preferential negotiations, has the considerable power to land Parliament with results that we cannot then alter.
This represents another step in the important work of rebuilding the confidence of European consumers in the quality and safety of European food products - as the Commissioner has often said - 'from farm to fork'.
Livestock production occupies a very important place in the agriculture of the Community.
Mr President, as I look around the Chamber this morning, I am 200 miles from home but I do not feel as if I am in another country; instead, I feel as if I am on another planet.
What the authors of these regulations have clearly failed to recognise, however, is that many small and medium-sized livestock and poultry farmers and many family businesses also formulate feeds.
Mr President, current legislation on additives in animal nutrition is complex.
This is because at present, there are certain diseases in poultry farming which are difficult to fight without these additives.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
As a committee, we propose to evaluate, in cases such as this one, not least, innovative support measures, particularly the measure extending the de minimis rule to the fisheries sector.
The Community must do its utmost to deliver sustainable fisheries in the Mediterranean.
The plan will respond to this challenge and, if properly implemented and supported by our Member States, it will allow us to achieve the main goal of reconciling fisheries with conservation of exploited resources and the environment within a framework of economic and social sustainability.
The Commission has already started work on a proposal to improve the technical measures to achieve better protection of juveniles, of habitats and, in general terms, of biodiversity.
Immediately after the adoption of the technical measures package, the Commission will start to address the fishing effort issue and I hope that a formal proposal could be put forward early in 2004.
Establishing so-called fishing protection zones is, in the Commission's view, a necessary move to improve control and fairness in international waters, as well as to create an international framework to deliver responsible fisheries and to ensure conservation of straddling and transnational stocks.
This should enhance multilateral cooperation without prejudice to the historical rights of our fishermen and the legitimate aspirations of the other bordering countries.
I therefore believe we urgently need to apply the CFP in its entirety in the Mediterranean, adapting it to the reality of the Mediterranean situation and considering in advance, where we feel it necessary, what exactly are the prevailing conditions in this area.
Mr President, I believe we are all agreed that the sustainability of salt-water fisheries resources, and provisions to maintain it, are essential for the fisheries sector.
The problems involving the Mediterranean must be solved in the context of multilateral relations and the MEDA programmes, for which I am the rapporteur and which are true instruments of the European Union, set up by the 1995 Barcelona Convention, making it possible to take action from the point of view of sustainable development.
Secondly, fishing techniques must be studied in order to decide which ones are most suitable, taking into account, in particular, the size of the fish, which are often smaller in the Mediterranean than elsewhere, and smaller fish do not necessarily mean juveniles.
Mr President, the Community Action Plan for fisheries in the Mediterranean Sea presented by the Commission is an initial major step towards sustainable management of the sector.
We are now dealing with estimated job losses in excess of 40 000 around the North Sea alone, with hundreds of fishermen leaving the industry and scrapping their vessels, and fish stocks across the major whitefish species showing signs of imminent collapse.
A Commission official told our committee last week that an estimated 150 000 tonnes of fresh healthy haddock were dumped dead back into the North Sea last year.
Finally, I am very much in favour of the multilateral approach to fisheries management in the Mediterranean in future.
The climatic, physical, cultural and political history of the Mediterranean is very rich and complex.
The reference to the special character of Mediterranean fisheries is legitimate, but seems almost to have become for some a pretext for maintaining the current status quo.
Mr President, it was not until the end of 2002 that the Commission adopted an Action Plan aimed at ensuring the sustainability of fishing in the Mediterranean.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
I also understand that some of you have expressed concerns in relation to the use of antibiotics in animal production and the related risk of development of resistance to anti-microbials.
On 26 June 2001, the Commission adopted a Community strategy against anti-microbial resistance.
In March 2002, the Commission proposed the total ban of antibiotics used for growth promotion from 2006.
Mr President, I have here - and for relevant reasons - an oral amendment, with the new number 15 a.
Mr President, we would like to change the last twelve words of paragraph 20 by way of oral amendment to 'are issues which require a sustained dialogue between the transatlantic partners'.
The Community's Mediterranean fleet, representing 22% of Union vessels in terms of tonnage, is clear evidence of that.
Not only have the objectives of economic and social cohesion not been implemented and no reduction in development inequalities observed, but also, on the contrary, inequalities are increasing, even within the Member States, there is galloping unemployment and the socio-economic fabric of agricultural, mountain and remote areas is unravelling.
A typical example is Greece, which was and still is the poorest of the 15 countries, with huge regional inequalities internally and with the sad privilege of 9 of its regions belonging to the poorest areas of the ?U.
Finally, as I have previously argued in this House, this report proposes transitional measures for those regions that currently have Objective 1 status but risk losing it because of the statistical effect resulting from the entry of poorer countries.
The promotion of economic and social cohesion is a priority political objective of the Union (consolidated by the Maastricht Treaty on European Union into one of the three pillars of European integration).
I share her concerns regarding the 4.1% deficit seen in Portugal in 2001 (which thus does not conform to the macroeconomic criteria), which the present Portuguese Government inherited from the previous socialist government.
All these instruments are essential to comply with the principle of economic and social cohesion.
It is unfortunately a fact that poor governance by the socialists in Portugal led to financial disaster, as shown by the public-sector deficit of 4.1% in 2001, which was punished by the Portuguese people in the early elections held in March 2002.
The main aim of the Cohesion Fund was to help countries with the greatest structural disadvantages; the beneficiaries of the Fund having a per capita GNP lower than 90% of the Community average and committing to adopt a convergence programme.
The Annual Report is an essential tool in assessing the activities of the Cohesion Fund.
I welcome the Commission's efforts to tackle the problem, in particular through the establishment of a task force in DG Regio in April 2002 and I reiterate our call to the Commission, when it submits future reports, to give more detailed information about the projects financed. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1).) - (FR) I voted in favour of this report.
We also regret that our proposed Amendment No 5 was not approved, since 'new priorities require new financial means'.
We therefore voted against the motion. . (PT) In its Draft Amending Budget, the Commission proposed additional appropriations for the scrapping of fishing vessels through the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, to the sum of EUR 32 million.
It should be remembered that these measures were included in the flexibility instrument for 2003-2006, the share for 2003 being EUR 32 million.
The main reason is that the regulation on the statute and financing of European political parties authorises gifts from legal persons to European political parties.
Finally, it is no longer a question of European political parties, but rather of political parties at European level.
I decided to abstain, rather than vote against this report, because I believe that the adoption of such a statute is a strong and positive signal of a move towards a closer Union and towards a destiny that is truly shared.
There will be conflicts between the rights of national political parties and European political parties since they have to be active within the same 'political space' (There is no European political space which exists in no-man's-land above the national territories).
We strongly recommend that the proposal be withdrawn. . (EL) The report being debated has no administrative character, it has a purely political character.
Nothing could be worse than to watch the development, within the European Union, of a system dominated by parties greedy for power, a system which, in France, was responsible for the collapse of the Third and Fourth Republics. . (PT) I regret the manner in which this report was put before the house.
The compromise contains a financial arrangement which means that fully-fledged European parties can be co-financed by donations from 2004 onwards.
The compromise that was reached, as a result of which a donor - being a natural or legal entity - can donate up to EUR 12 000 per annum to a European party, with a traceability ceiling of EUR 500, is unacceptable to us.
We continue to work for a ban on company donations and a ceiling on private donations of EUR 2 000 per annum, whereby donors are required to make themselves known if they contribute EUR 125 or more.
We have voted in favour of this own-initiative report in spite of its not taking account of what has already been done and in spite of the fact that the rapporteur wishes to direct developments using unduly far-reaching central control and supranationalism.
We therefore agree with the rapporteur that a strategy in this field must integrate the following: the precautionary principle; the development of protection and conservation measures; an integrated approach to all human activities impacting on the marine environment; an integrated approach in the management of fishing effort; and a regional approach, taking into account regional diversities and respect for their 'ecological characteristics and socio-economic aspects', without forgetting that there are other causes of marine pollution.
For this reason, I have chosen to vote against the report, which was however adopted (by 303 votes in favour, 109 against and 47 abstentions). .
