However much development work might need to be done, the people living nearby also need to be considered, and not only their health but also their acceptance of the work.
Although the proposal for a regulation on the granting of Community financial aid in the field of the trans-European transport and energy networks provides for an increase in the current level of Community cofinancing, it falls short of what the original proposal as regards both the transport and energy networks, due to the detrimental agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-2013.
In my opinion, it was extremely important to vote for this. (CS) I voted against the proposals on roaming calls, for the following reasons.
Therefore, UKIP MEPs will not vote on the Rübig report.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the Rübig report on roaming on public mobile networks within the Community because the positions upheld in this report are going to make it possible significantly to improve the situation of European consumers.
The Rübig report remedies a situation that penalises mobility.
The reduction in roaming rates will make it possible to break down the remaining barriers in the internal market, thereby strengthening European competitiveness.
Furthermore, the revision clause, which will be laid down in 18 months' time, will, we hope, be an opportunity to go further in terms of protecting consumers.
in writing. (SV) The report contains many practical proposals with a view to improving the situation for consumers.
In that case, it would be quite wrong to introduce price regulation, as this would do nothing at all to solve the problem.
To propose treatment without a prior diagnosis would be absurd.
in writing. - (FR) It was with a heavy heart that I voted in favour of the report on roaming on public mobile networks because it goes against my most important political convictions.
The long-term effects of this regulation could even end in an increase in national communications tariffs, which would be counterproductive and disastrous for the proper functioning of the national economies.
I support transparent price setting and a reduction in roaming charges in a spirit of free competition, but this reduction must not be achieved by means of retail price fixing and at the expense of national communications tariffs.
in writing. (SV) The report contains many practical proposals with a view to improving the situation for consumers.
In that case, it would be quite wrong to introduce price regulation, as this would do nothing at all to solve the problem.
To propose treatment without a prior diagnosis would be absurd.
I voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation on roaming on public mobile networks, which will lead to a reduction in prices for millions of roaming customers.
This regulation must set an example.
In view of the cross-border nature of the contractual relations involved in these services, the Member States have shown they are scarcely capable of tackling this issue.
in writing. - (FR) By endorsing the regulation on mobile telephone roaming charges this lunchtime, the European Parliament has just adopted legislation that was awaited by millions of consumers: workers or tourists, exasperated by the exorbitant costs of cross-border calls made or received on the GSM and who have gained the support of the European Commission, as the author of this legislative proposal.
If profits disappeared, this might lead to companies having to increase their national prices.
in writing. - (PL) I am voting in favour of the report on the proposal relating to the Regulation of the European Parliament and Council concerning roaming on public mobile telephone networks within the Community and amending Directive 2002/21/EC on the common regulatory framework for electronic communications.
However, mobile telephony is not restricted to voice communication, but also includes other types of new-generation communication such as GPS, Wi-Fi and remote Internet access.
Therefore, UKIP MEPs will not vote on the Rubig report.
Moreover, we never approve of EU regulation. (LT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages in 1992 was the start of attempts to coordinate taxes in the creation of a common market.
in writing. (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats should ideally have liked to have seen Parliament being able to support the Commission's original proposal for an increase in minimum taxes that took account of inflation since 1993.
The main purpose of excise duties, which are currently a significant proportion of the revenue of many Member States, is to moderate consumption, as in the case of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages, and in turn to protect public health.
As the report itself notes, the 1992 directive on excise duties did not result in any approximation of these rates among the Member States, or even settled the so-called problems concerning a distortion of competition.
in writing. (SV) We have voted against this report because it does not address the conflicting aims that are central to the problem concerned.
What we are really concerned with here is, of course, the fact that the Member States' right to decide on an issue as crucial as alcohol policy is in conflict both with the demand for a free internal market and the Member States' right to make their own decisions about their tax systems.
The issue should therefore be addressed seriously by experts and political representatives with a proper grasp of the subject before Parliament is faced with new proposals. - (SK) I have voted in favour of the realistic approach presented in the Vergnaud report, since it is obvious that the decisions of the European Court of Justice defending the right of patients to be treated in a country other than their own where their health would otherwise be seriously at risk or where their life is at stake, interfere with the powers of national governments.
It is self-evident that patient mobility in Europe will increase.
in writing. (SV) We have chosen to vote against this report, partly because we believe that the Member States themselves should be able to decide for which health services prior notification can be required.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the Vergnaud report.
The vote on this report in plenary has confirmed the specific nature of health services and hence their exclusion from the Services Directive.
In common with other Commission communications on healthcare, this own-initiative report is, to some extent, aimed at once again applying to health services the same approach as the internal market for services, which it does by tabling a fresh proposal for a separate health services directive.
We therefore voted against the report.
We welcome the fact, however, that the proposal to include health services in the directive on liberalising services was rejected.
Universal access to high-quality, universal health services is a fundamental right of all citizens, which must be provided by the existing national social protection systems in the EU.
Health services are a public good and the public authorities of each Member State have the crucial task of guaranteeing equal access to all high-quality health services, and of providing adequate public funding.
We therefore oppose the creation of a liberalised internal market for health services and the current trend of reducing or privatising health services or making them ever more dependent on internal market regulation or on competition rules.
Health services are services like no other.
in writing. - (FR) This report shows the will to bypass the content of the Services Directive, which legitimately excluded health services from its scope.
Health services are not commercial services but services vital to our ageing populations.
The matter of excluding health services is the responsibility of the Member States and must remain so.
Furthermore, in view of the differences between our countries, one might say that the universality of a so-called European social model is utopian.
Finally creating a legal framework in this area amounts to implementing a quasi-internal market in health services or at least to laying the foundations for one.
The report takes it as given that national health systems will be inadequate and that health services will not be free.
That is why we MEPs of the Greek Communist Party voted against the report.
I voted for this report on the consequences of excluding health services from the Services Directive.
Health is one of the issues that the citizens hold most dear and it would be wrong to impose solutions on the Member States by means of Community legislation that would undermine rules on which the citizens and the politicians have agreed.
European policy in the area of healthcare should not confine itself to regulating patient mobility or creating a unified market.
Everyone is entitled to travel to a different country in order to receive the best care.
Structural funding must bring added value and be a genuine European policy in its own right, helping less prosperous regions rather than Member States, developing transnational linkages and helping ensure that all can benefit from the European single market.
In her call for greater exposure and publicity for projects supported by the structural funds, Francisca Pleguezuelos Aguilar wants to give our citizens greater awareness of the benefits of cohesion policy.
Despite enormous advances in market access including the 'Everything but Arms' initiative by the Commission, the Least Developed Countries' share of world trade has halved over the last 40 years from 1.9 % to 1 %.
I am delighted that the UK is taking a lead in delivering its share of the EUR 2 billion annual aid for trade budget promised by EU Member States at Gleneagles by 2010.
Secondly, this guideline establishes a hierarchy between countries, thus deepening still further the gap between the so-called rich and poor countries, with consequences at national level for the EU Member States, and in what are known as third countries ... (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 163(1) of the Rules of Procedure) in writing.
For the countries of the South, this customs credit would be subsidised, along the lines of matching credits and sparing credits, which already exist in international taxation.
in writing. - (FR) The negotiations on the economic partnership agreements will enter a crucial phase, on 1 January 2008, marking the expiry of the current agreements.
Due to the essential nature of these agreements, I voted in favour of the report, believing that these agreements will enable a new economic and commercial framework to be established that is conducive to the sustainable development of the ACP countries' economies.
I should like also to qualify paragraph 13 of the report by pointing out the conclusions adopted by the Council that provide for transitional periods in the provision of EU market access for certain products that are particularly sensitive from the EU's point of view.
It is hardly surprising, therefore, that the countries in question are not in a hurry to sign these agreements much before the end of 2007.
in writing. - (FR) In line with the Cotonou agreement, the EPAs are not mere free trade agreements under the WTO, but a genuine partnership enabling a new economic and commercial framework to be created in favour of the ACP countries.
I welcome the adoption of my amendment, which is designed to strike an intelligent balance between the regional integration of these overseas territories and the ties binding them to Europe. (DE) Mr President, I have voted in favour of this report on the grounds that the steps outlined in it need to be taken as a matter of absolute necessity if this European Union of ours is to be made a political union speaking with one voice to the outside world and hence capable of becoming a global player rather than a lame duck.
This position adopted by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament (encompassing the Portuguese Social Democrats, Conservatives and Socialists) is especially significant given that it is these very political forces that are negotiating the wording of a 'simplified' Treaty, which they tell us is different in content from the 'European Constitution'.
The EPLP voted against paragraphs 1, 5 and 11, and abstained on 2, 3, 4 and 5, as the references to the Constitutional Treaty and the detailed provisions within are inappropriate whilst its future is still being discussed.
The EPLP also abstained on paragraph 8(g), as the added value of an EU diplomatic academy has yet to be proven, and on paragraph 8(h) - whilst agreeing that there is certainly a need for external delegations to be strengthened, these will not be EU 'embassies'.
The author, alongside Mrs Beer from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, has accordingly chosen to reopen the can of worms of territorial change in Europe.
Similarly counterproductive is the fear expressed in Article 25 concerning the first trials of an anti-satellite defence mechanism in China.
Mr Brok's report rightly underlines that without a constitutional treaty, the European Union will not be in a position to face the main challenges that the common foreign and security policy currently poses.
The sum of EUR 1 740 million allocated for common foreign and security policy for 2007-2013 is inadequate for the EU's ambitions to be an international player.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, Elmar Brok's report on the main aspects and fundamental choices facing the CFSP highlights the merits of the case well.
We voted against the report on the CFSP. (DE) Mr President, I endorse the demands made in this report, particularly for the introduction of a minimum wage in all the Member States, which will be a safety net and is particularly calculated to protect those who are in work from exploitation and poverty, while also, at the same time, safeguarding competitiveness and preventing the loss of jobs in countries like Austria, which have higher standards of social protection.
I would also like to praise the unions in Malta, especially the General Workers' Union, for their hard work and efforts in the interests of Maltese workers.
in writing. (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats in the European Parliament voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - (FR) This report by the European Parliament is a step in the right direction.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report on promoting decent work for all.
Presentations and declarations are one thing; the everyday political actions and decisions of international institutions are quite something else.
It is imperative that these fundamentals - quality employment, workers' rights, protection and social dialogue - determine all economic and social policies at international level. (The explanation of vote was abbreviated in accordance with Rule 163(1) of the Rules of Procedure) I voted in favour of the Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou report on promoting decent work for all, because productive labour in conditions of freedom, equality, security and dignity should lie at the heart of EU trade relations.
As we know, between 2000 and 2005 unemployment rose by one million in the EU, alongside a massive increase in unstable work: more than 4.7 million workers were on fixed-term contracts and at least 1.1 million found themselves working part time.
The EU proposal and the report debated in plenary of the European Parliament with the misleading title of 'decent work' (COM - 2006 - 0249) are the new reactionary, anti-grassroots framework of the ΕU for achieving the objectives of the 'Lisbon Strategy', minimising the price of labour and striking at the workers' fundamental rights, in order to increase the profits of the Euro-unifying monopoly business groups.
That is why the parliamentary group of the Greek Communist Party voted against this EU proposal.
