I would also like to thank the draftswoman and draftsman of the other committees, Mrs Lucas and Mr Stevenson.
For me, the most frustrating part was that we had an issue which was very close to the heart of European citizens and which had the support of the Council and, clearly, of the European Parliament but also of the Commission, yet we still had problems in proceeding with this proposal.
This was necessary, because, unfortunately, there is no legal basis in the Treaty that would allow the EU to adopt a legislative initiative to ban a particular trade based on animal welfare or ethical concerns.
As the rapporteur responsible for this matter, I am both pleased and satisfied with the report on which we - Parliament, the Council and the Commission - have now agreed.
I am completely convinced that the opinions widely held among the public and among animal rights organisations have contributed very significantly to our reaching this agreement.
It is enough to see just one picture or documentary showing such cruelty to animals to realise that everything must be done to put a stop to it.
The Humane Society estimates that more than two million cats and dogs are kept prisoner under disgusting conditions before being killed for the sake of their fur.
We believed that we needed a total ban, but the Commission's original proposal made certain exemptions possible, for example when the label stated that the fur came from cats or dogs that had not been bred or slaughtered for manufacturing purposes or when the skins concerned were personal belongings or household objects.
It was not a regulation of that kind that people were requesting or demanding of the EU.
I remember writing to Commissioner Byrne back in 2002 calling for a ban on cat and dog fur.
Exactly the same language is being used again now, when it comes to seal products, as was used back in 2002 about cat and dog fur.
However, most of all, I am grateful for the great courage of Commissioner Kyprianou, because, as Mrs Lucas has just said, the previous Commissioner told us that it was impossible and there would never be a legal basis.
I am glad that, at long last, there will very soon be a regulation on the statute books in all 27 Member States banning this evil trade.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, banning the trade in cat and dog fur in the EU is important for a number of reasons.
The first is the completely unacceptable so-called cat industry in Asia supplying Europe with a reported 2 million cats a year.
The second reason is that European consumers do not know that they are buying these products.
Commissioner, you will probably remember that the late Phillip Whitehead, the former chairman of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection, asked you as a Commission to take action.
On 30 December last year, I received a petition on behalf of concerned citizens signed by over a quarter of a million people calling for us to bring in that ban.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Madam President, I should like to thank Mrs Svensson for her commitment and the work she has done.
It has surprised me enormously why it has taken so long before we managed to strike this compromise with the Council and Commission, because we in this House had to do a huge amount of work to reach this compromise.
I am pleased with the outcome, particularly the fact that we are assuming an exemption position that is compatible with that of the United States and Australia.
I do not want to enter into detail about it at the moment, but I think there is much to say on this subject, and the Commissioner may already have ideas on this for future proposals.
Finally, I should like to stress that the ALDE Group supports the compromise proposal as a whole; we do not have any problems with it.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, I fully support the ban on imports of cat and dog fur.
We know that killing dogs and cats for fur is cruel and European Union Member States should not be indifferent to this practice.
The Union will have a purpose when it becomes a community of people who are sensitive to all pain, to all suffering.
At the same time, I would like to express my appreciation for her report and the work of the rapporteurs from the expert committees, Mr Stevenson and Mrs Lucas.
This Regulation is also in the interests of consumers, as many citizens were completely unaware when purchasing products such as soft toys, clothing or keyrings that these contained dog or cat fur.
It is high time Europe took this important step for international animal protection, and thus followed the example of other countries, such as the USA and Australia, who introduced a similar ban years ago.
It was in fact high time that the Member States were reminded that dogs and cats are companion animals and that the trade in their furs and in products derived from them must not be accepted or even tolerated.
I understand the rapporteur, Mrs Svensson, and share her opinion that the large number of petitions and concerns expressed by consumers and citizens throughout the EU means that the Commission cannot remain inactive over the matter of banning the trade in cat and dog fur.
We must avoid putting up obstacles to the functioning of the internal market and ensure the free movement of legally traded fur and fur products in general. (DA) Madam President, like my fellow Members, I wish to begin by sincerely thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Svensson, for an outstanding piece of work and for her excellent cooperation on this matter.
It is good legislation because it enables us to send a clear signal to the many EU citizens who have asked us to do something to prevent dogs and cats from being used for fur production.
In this way, we are showing them that we are in actual fact listening to their concerns and making an active attempt to put a stop to cruelty to animals.
The proposed legislation is also necessary because huge numbers of dogs and cats lead wretched lives that end in the most terrible suffering imaginable, and all because they have to provide fur for clothes and toys.
I am therefore delighted that we have managed to devise as strict and sound a ban as this.
The reply that I received gave information on two derogations, one relating to fur that was part of personal or household effects being brought into the EU, and the other relating to fur or products containing fur that have not been bred or killed for fur production.
That is why, as we all know, an EU-wide ban is so important if we want an end to this vile trade.
The problem is that many customers do not know what they are buying, as cat and dog fur is quite often labelled as fake fur.
However, on the general issue of labelling, we are following very closely voluntary initiatives, programmes and schemes that already exist to cover other fur products and ensure that consumers are properly informed.
On the issue of seals, I have to say at the outset that it is not my responsibility.
I do not know what happened in the past, but I think we would all appreciate that this Commission would not only make a commitment but also deliver this proposal within a reasonable time.
However, you have all had a chance to talk with me privately on this issue and you know that I personally did not need to be persuaded or convinced about this.
We have found a very positive outcome with a compromise.
Therefore, I am looking forward to working with you on many other issues that touch upon animal welfare. (Applause) The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, 19 June 2007.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FI) First of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Eva-Britt Svensson, for having done a splendid job, and for having added certain elements to the Commission initiative, in particular that violation of the ban will result in prosecution and that derogations to the ban are unacceptable.
The whole process has also been an exemplary indication of how decisions and legislation at EU level can be influenced by citizen action.
I welcome the Union's proposal on a complete ban on the trade in cat and dog fur because I believe that it is unacceptable that around two million dogs and cats are butchered every year for this purpose. 12-15 dogs need to be killed to produce one dog fur coat and 24 cats for one cat fur coat.
