Common organisation of agricultural markets (debate) The next item is the report by Niels Busk, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products - C6-0045/2007 -.
According to the Presidency's planning, this proposal will be discussed at the meeting of the Special Committee for Agriculture on 29 May and 4 June and probably on 11 June in the Council.
Other components, as you will recall, include the Commission's cross-compliance report, which will have a real impact on farmers' lives once its proposals are implemented, the simplification action plan, currently with 37 practical measures, which agriculture is busy implementing, and the health check, which will also be targeted at further simplifying the CAP.
But I can assure you that the Commission is determined to organise the meetings of the single committee in such a way as to include the necessary expertise and take account of the specificities of the sectors concerned.
I would, of course, also thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for some interesting debates and for their major contribution to this report.
I should like, however, to emphasise that any decision of a political nature must still be taken in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 37 of the Treaty, that is to say after consulting the European Parliament.
I warmly welcome the fact that these 21 regulations on sector-specific market organisations are being combined into a single Regulation, and thus that the legal framework is being streamlined.
The Commission also assures us that all decisions of a political nature are taken in accordance with Article 37 of the EU Treaty, after consultation with the European Parliament.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group - (PL) Madam President, please allow me to re-iterate the fundamental facts of discrimination against the new Member States in the framework of the so-called 'common' agricultural policy.
For example, in 2004 the new Member States had 22% of the total farmland, but received just under 4% in subsidies.
Per-hectare agricultural and rural development subsidies in 2007 were EUR 148 per hectare for the new Member States, and EUR 366 per hectare for the old Member States.
A similar imbalance is expected for 2013, which means we face ten years of discrimination against the new Member States, thereby losing the opportunity to build up a strong European agriculture.
For this reason I am voting against the Commission's proposal and against adopting this report.
The whole idea of simplification will be technical in nature, and therefore cannot by metamorphosed in the latest CAP reform.
Let us hope that this simplification, and the creation of a harmonised common market (...) (The President cut off the speaker.) Madam President, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report.
I do not want more and more civil servants - let me make that very clear - either in Brussels or in Member States making more difficulties for the farmers trying to do their job on the ground, creating and developing more problems than we would like to solve.
Replacing the 21 common market organisations by a single horizontal Regulation of the Council for a single market organisation will undoubtedly lead to a simplification and improvement of the legal structure of the first pillar of the CAP, and to greater transparency in agricultural legislation.
However, we must not forget that creating a uniform, common market organisation is a process of technical simplification which cannot incorporate elements of policy change.
But we can assure you that the Commission is determined to organise the meetings of the single committee in such a way as to include the necessary expertise and take account of the specificities of the sectors concerned.
With regard to pigmeat, I am not so certain why an instrument that has not been used in more than 30 years should still be considered as a basic policy decision that needs to be maintained.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
