Deterioration of the situation in Georgia (debate) (EL) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the deterioration of the situation in Georgia.
I would also draw your attention to the Presidency statement published yesterday in which the Presidency expressed the willingness of the European Union to provide that country with emergency humanitarian assistance.
The General Affairs and External Relations Council discussed Georgia recently, on 29 April.
The matter was also discussed yesterday by the Political and Security Committee, which was also addressed by Deputy Prime Minister Baramidze.
On 2 May the Presidency responded, on behalf of the European Union, by publishing a statement on the escalation of tension between Georgia and Russia.
The High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy Javier Solana had previously spoken twice to President Saakashvili and on 30 April met Georgian special envoy Mr Bakradze.
I would like to emphasise that the European Union is very concerned by the recent series of events which have brought about an escalation of tension between Georgia and the Russian Federation.
We are also concerned by the downing of an unmanned Georgian aircraft in Georgian airspace on 20 April.
We are further concerned by the decision of the Russian Federation to establish official contacts with the institutions of de facto authority in South Ossetia and Abkhazia which were set up without the agreement of the Georgian authorities.
The European Union continues to support international efforts to bring about a peaceful resolution of the conflicts in Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
The European Union Special Representative and the European Commission will also continue their efforts to build confidence in support of a resolution of the conflicts in Georgia.
The European Union also welcomes the decision by the Russian Federation to normalise relations with Georgia in certain areas.
As regards the internal political situation in Georgia, I would like, at this juncture, to express the European Union's hope that the forthcoming parliamentary elections on 21 May will be free and fair.
It is important that the Georgian authorities take all possible measures to build public confidence in the conduct of the elections.
All the political parties in Georgia - both government and opposition - must do everything within their power to improve the atmosphere in the run-up to the elections and to establish a truly democratic political culture.
The mission of the EU political directors tomorrow will indeed be a very useful opportunity to confirm our wholehearted support for Georgia at this very difficult juncture.
Tensions around the unresolved conflicts in Abkhazia and South Ossetia are, unfortunately, escalating rapidly.
We should concentrate now on how to stop this chess game, where each move provokes a counter-move.
I think it is important that this is developed in a way that constitutes a basis for a constructive dialogue with all parties involved.
As regards the forthcoming legislative elections, we have mobilised a EUR 2 million electoral assistance package (which has already been quoted), with a view to ensuring the conditions for a fairer and more transparent electoral process.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, here in Parliament we should be very seriously concerned about the recent escalation of an already tense situation in Georgia.
The European Parliament should show firm commitment and support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia.
The recent decision of the Russian Government to establish official ties and to bolster the Russian military presence in Abkhazia goes beyond and violates existing agreements and the territorial integrity of Georgia.
Secondly, we should call on the Russian Government to reverse its decision to establish official ties with Abkhazia and South Ossetia and to withdraw Russian forces from Abkhazia.
However, I believe that both sides must exercise restraint, especially at present, and I therefore support the statements by the Council and the Commission.
Two things, in particular, are pushing Georgia towards the European Union and this is important too, in my view.
On behalf of my political group, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I would like to draw the international community's attention to the destabilising role of the Russian Federation military forces present in the conflict zone.
Georgia's appeal to the international community and international organisations to consider the possibility of replacing the Russian 'peace-keeping' forces with another format ought to be taken into consideration and supported by the Council and the European Commission, which should also examine the possibility of providing a peace-keeping mission under EU supervision in Georgia's Abkhazia region.
The presidential election on 5 January this year was a decision to escape from deadlock, but during the election process itself several infringements and ambiguities were observed, and regretfully I have to admit that actions by the relevant Georgian authorities were insufficient to convince voters and candidates that they had the political will to investigate all electoral infringements that took place at the time of those elections.
In this context, I would like to welcome the electoral assistance programme, funded by the European Commission, in which four NGOs, the United Nations and the Council of Europe are participating.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Lenarčič, I am also speaking for the delegation; I am in fact chairwoman of the European Parliament delegation to the three Caucasus countries.
On 16 April, Russia legalised the bilateral relations and official documents of Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
Then of course, on 24 April, Russia unilaterally increased the number of troops and sent armed equipment.
As my colleagues have said, we were in Gali last week and apparently there was nothing that justified increasing these troops, up from 2 000 to 3 000 troops.
I have, of course, heard all your suggestions, but I think that at the moment we need to stop the escalation of violence.
I also heard the Council's last two statements.
The European Union is only supporting the restoration of trust.
Abkhazia broke off its dialogue with Georgia in 2006.
It is saying that the European Union will only get involved in this conflict if both parties present ask for it.
The Balkan war should have been the last, and I think it is up to us to nip the conflict in the South Caucasus in the bud.
In the conflict that is taking place in Abkhazia and Ossetia the rights of a Russian minority are not at issue.
Today we need to ask ourselves a very important question: by opposing Georgia's membership of NATO, have we not encouraged Russia to take these actions?
This conflict is about geopolitics.
The credibility of the European Union and peace in the region are at stake.
We should join the United States in arranging a meeting of the Security Council and the OSCE on this issue.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Since 1991 Georgia has had three Presidents: the dissident Gamsakhurdia, the Communist establishmentarian Shevardnadze and recently the American protegé Saakashvili.
It is difficult to say which of the three has been worst.
Not only Georgia but also Russia must participate in mediation.
It is unacceptable for Russia alone to determine that Russian troops be sent there.
I heard President Medvedev, the new president, emphatically declare his intention to preserve Russia's sovereignty and independence.
I should like to ask everyone here who wishes to congratulate President Medvedev today to also call on him to guarantee the sovereignty and independence of Georgian territory.
A new president in Russia also presents a new opportunity for us to make a firmer appeal to convince him of this.
Thank you very much. (NL) I should like to join previous speakers, including the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council, in expressing the concern we all share about the situation that has arisen in the region - specifically the Caucasus - regarding Georgia and the problems with South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
We think that such matters must be kept strictly separate from the situation in Georgia.
New agreements must be made in this regard, and the European Union may be able to play a role in these.
It is my belief that we must be more energetic and unambiguous in our support for Georgia, and exert stronger pressure on Russia.
The parliamentary elections in Georgia have been brought forward and are now imminent.
Thank you for your attention. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, the European Parliament has involved itself on numerous occasions in the issue of building democracy in Georgia.
It must be clear, though, that there is no consent in Europe for a neo-imperialist policy on the part of Russia in relation to Caucasian countries, or in relation to Georgia.
Russia bears the burden of a special responsibility to guarantee peace and security in this region.
Aside from using trade and energy supplies as diplomatic weapons, Putin has consistently sought to undermine Georgia's territorial integrity through tacit support for the breakaway, self-styled republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
It would indeed be tragic if, through our approach to Kosovo, we have irreparably damaged Georgia and precipitated armed conflict in a country whose territorial integrity we should be defending very strongly. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I attended meetings last week in Tbilisi together with my colleagues from the interparliamentary delegation, led by Mrs Isler Béguin, whose comments I fully endorse: the situation is really deteriorating and the escalating tensions could erupt in open armed confrontation.
The deadlock over the situation in Abkhazia and South Ossetia is being resolved and Moscow has officially confirmed that it wants to establish a legal relationship with each region.
The Council and the Commission must show willingness to act.
The fact that parliamentary elections are to be held on 21 May increases the tension.
I think, colleagues, that we should now support Georgia at this time of crisis and in the face of what a colleague a few moments ago described as Russian imperialism.
I do not know all the diplomatic measures that are taking place, but I am concerned that the European Union is not doing enough to stop this escalating violence.
In such an event, recalling a possible link between the Bucharest veto on a NATO MAP for Georgia and the rapidly growing aggressiveness of Russia, we could ask Germany to take a mediatory role in the Russia-Georgia conflict to avoid the worst.
We must give Georgia our support at a moment when the country fears further provocation, and even aggression, by Russia.
Russian troops clearly do not meet these criteria.
These are the issues we need to address, and we need to address them now. (Applause) (ET) At yesterday's meeting with the Deputy Prime Minister of Georgia, the opinion was repeatedly expressed that the approach taken in Kosovo was the cause of escalating tension in Georgia.
It is true that Russia is exploiting the situation but it is equally clear that Russia's imperial interests would also find other justifications should the need arise.
The following question arises: how can it be that, despite the agreement reached back in 1994 in Moscow, the Abkhazian forces have such means at their disposal?
In fact, our own understanding of the substance of these conflicts has often been frozen.
As my time is short I would like to address just one point, specifically the so-called Russian peacekeepers which have so far spent 14 years on Georgian territory, Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) I have listened very carefully to the statements made in this debate and I thank you very much for them.
I have already referred in my introductory address to United Nations Security Council Resolution No 1808 which reaffirms the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia within its internationally recognised borders.
That Security Council resolution was adopted recently - on 15 April - and at this juncture I would like to point out and emphasise, in particular in connection with the statement made by Mr Evans, the fact that without the agreement of the Russian Federation this resolution would not have been adopted.
I should stress that the European Union will continue steadfastly to support Georgia in its efforts to find a peaceful settlement of the unresolved conflicts both in Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, this has been an important debate at an important and difficult moment.
It is very clear that we must support Georgia but, as some of you have said, good friends also have to take good advice, and I think the first thing that we have to tell them is: dialogue is the only way forward.
As many of you have pointed out, it is more important than ever for Georgia to strengthen its democracy and hold free and fair elections, and we will see what happens on 21 May.
The vote will take place on 5 June.
A few days ago Russia, without the consent of Georgia, increased its military contingent in Abkhazia from two to three thousand soldiers and also appointed a high-ranking Russian officer to command the so-called Abkhazian army staff.
This is a clear sign of Russian preparations for military aggression in Georgia.
I am appealing for support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia, and I am calling on the Russian authorities to end the escalation of this conflict and to validate the military actions taken.
The role of the EU should be to 'disarm' this conflict and to restrain the neo-imperialist strivings of Russia in relation to former republics in the Southern Caucasus.
