At the same time, the financial burden for shipowners - from EUR 25 to 35 per tonne of fish caught - has increased, while the financial burden for the Community has been reduced by the same amount.
Lastly, we have our biggest reservations about Amendment 2 of this report, adopted by Parliament, which confers discretionary power on the Commission to withdraw licences in the event of non-compliance with obligations.
European consumers must be sure that what they are buying is what they asked for and not a fake.
I would ask my vote in favour in the last nominal vote to be recorded because my equipment was unfortunately not working. (PL) Mr President, unfortunately, the majority of Members supported a broader definition of vodka.
I do not consider the Schnellhardt compromise acceptable, since, although it would not change the labelling on vodkas made from grain, potatoes or molasses, it would involve products made from other raw materials being designated 'vodka made from ...' followed by the name of the original ingredient.
I voted for it, although the country I represent - Lithuania - wanted a much more specific definition.
I voted in favour of the Schnellhardt report on the proposal for a regulation on the definition, description, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks, because I consider it vital that consumers should not be misled.
I consider it important that producers should pass on clear information on the nature of the product in order to ensure greater transparency in the market.
I will be voting for this report.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of this report that is designed to improve the applicability, readability and clarity of the labelling of spirit drinks.
The solution that has been found with regard to the question of vodka makes it possible also to retain the designation 'traditional vodka', produced from cereals, potatoes or molasses, without preventing production using other agricultural products.
The latest definition of vodka, which appears in the report before us, and which was drawn up by the European Parliament in collaboration with the Council (on the basis of a proposal made by the German presidency), is not favourable from the point of view of countries who are seen as traditional, European vodka producers, especially Poland.
The proposal also aims at ensuring that information on new methods able to detect cat and dog fur and to distinguish it from other types of fur is made available to the Commission and exchanged between Member States.
I voted in favour of banning the import into, and export from, the EU of cat and dog fur (and of products containing such fur) from 31 December 2008.
We supported amendments which point out that public authorities should make every effort to ensure that all citizens have access to broadband.
in writing. - (FR) I regret that the Hökmark report did not take up the many suggestions from the Committee on Regional Development, for which I was the rapporteur.
I had experience of this in the Limousin with the DORSAL project.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the Hökmark report on Building a European Policy on Broadband, because it is very important to encourage initiatives facilitating access for all to the Internet and, in general, to knowledge.
in writing. (SV) In his explanatory statement for the report, the rapporteur pushes two contradictory arguments.
The 500 million European citizens who have broadband access will also provide Europe with the opportunity to become the leading, knowledge-based economy in the world.
in writing. - (FR) The dynamism of regional economies is strongly dependent on the level of development of information and communication technologies, among which is access to the Internet via high speed broadband connections.
The European Union must indisputably play a major role in promoting, among its Member States and its regions, the fight against the 'digital divide', in order to reduce the gap separating individuals, businesses and territories in terms of access to the knowledge society.
We should not forget, however, that our dependence is reciprocal, and that our objective must be to form a viable axis between Europe and Russia, which - in my opinion - should not apply only to trade relations.
I believe that there should be a public service obligation imposed on service providers of broadband technology.
I will vote in favour of this report as it is going a long way in the right direction, if not quite reaching my final destination.
The majority in Parliament 'questions the bill itself as well as the choice and the growing number of industries that have been classified as strategic and essential to national security' in Russia.
Let nobody be in any doubt - and in particular after the very hostile and negative comments recently made by the German Finance Minister - that Ireland and other countries with low corporation tax regimes face a real battle to keep their low corporation tax structure in place, which has kept employment high, unemployment low and has been one of the main planks of a successful economy. (SK) I have voted against the report by Mrs Ferreira because in section 13 the rapporteur proposes the introduction of a consolidated tax base throughout the EU.
In my opinion, tax base consolidation would be the first step towards consolidating the rates of corporate income tax.
This time, it is doing so in relation to the idea of implementing the liberalisation of the entire energy sector by 1 July 2007, in relation to the harmonisation of business taxation (with a common consolidated corporate tax base) and in relation to the reduction and control of state aid, which is a distinctive characteristic of the EU's competition policy.
Mergers and acquisitions have trebled in value since 2003.
I voted against paragraph 13 and the overall report on Competition Policy 2005.
The Union's competition policy is vitally important in an open market economy.
I therefore voted in favour of the Ferreira report.
As such, we voted against the second part of paragraph 13.
As I see it, the responsible rapporteur should monitor what is subsequently done in the Member States.
Mr President, I should like to emphasise my opposition to Amendments 7 and 8.
in writing. (SV) People's level of education is crucial to their personal development and to European growth and innovation.
It is therefore important for the EU Member States to invest more in creating good conditions for enabling people to study and have families at the same time.
in writing. (PL) Mr President, I am voting in favour of Marie Panayotopolous-Cassiotou's report on a regulatory framework for measures to reconcile family life and a period of study in the European Union.
