I shall add that we should try, in our plenary sitting, to preserve the consensus which emerged in committee when voting on this report, in order to ensure that the European Parliament thereby gives a strong political message as to its commitment in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy.
Mr President, I am sure that we are all aware that piracy and counterfeiting constitute a very serious problem.
It may be premature for the European Parliament to enunciate its position on certain points, the precise content of which will emerge from the debate which is now beginning, but in some cases, it may be appropriate to establish this content.
It is this: there are those who would say that this debate embraces the debate about copyright and trademarks.
Mr President, this report is extremely late in coming, given that the Commission' s Green Paper was adopted on 15 October 1998.
After all, piracy is commonly thought to be a trivial offence: people might think of Calvin Klein T-shirts or RayBan sunglasses that one can buy for next to nothing on some far-flung beach, or they might think of CDs that one can easily get hold of on the quiet.
They are two different things.
Mr President, dismayed as I am at the prejudice displayed towards Austria by 14 Member States, but also at the stance adopted by the President of the European Parliament as regards this matter, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report and endorse the majority of her findings.
This tends to emphasise the need to harmonise more than is appropriate or necessary in the circumstances.
What is more, criminal organisations seem to be becoming increasingly involved in the trade in counterfeit products and those obtained through piracy, and this is causing the business community to lose confidence in the single market, leading, in turn, to a decline in investment.
The Economic and Social Committee, which also has a role to play here of course, produced a positive opinion on the Green Paper in February 1999 and various proposals from the Green Paper were incorporated in this opinion.
Afterwards, and in the light of our experiences, let us see to what extent it is necessary to uphold and strengthen these measures.
The debate is closed.
the European Union established the High Representative for Bosnia-Herzegovina and the UN set up an interim administration in Kosovo - that now coordinate and manage all civilian activities and all the work done out there.
The 2000 Budget has made a total of EUR 28 million available for these projects in Bosnia-Herzegovina, and has made EUR 12.5 million available for UNMIK, which is the UN transitional administration in Kosovo.
It is to be welcomed that we are to transfer this part of the interim civilian administration within the scope of the Union' s foreign policy to the first pillar, thereby involving Parliament more extensively in the common foreign and security policy.
As a Parliament, we will have the opportunity in future to put funds in this political field in reserve and to influence and play a part in the enforcement of particular measures.
If we were to go along with this, then we would forfeit all hope of being able, firstly, to emphasise the special significance of the civil aspect and, secondly, to communitarise the common foreign and security policy in the long term, in the context of the interplay between civil and military crisis management, because we would then be committing ourselves to going in an entirely different direction, as is very much the trend in many national capitals these days.
The proposal under discussion today is intended to provide a legal basis at Community level to cover the financing of the United Nations' interim mission in Kosovo and of the Office of the High Representative in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
We are talking very large amounts: EUR 28 million for the Office of the High Representative, 53% of which is actually to be funded by the European Union, and EUR 12 million to be funded by UNMIK (United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo).
Mr President, this specific proposal concerns support for those bodies which the international community must unfortunately establish now and again, either to take care of interim civilian administration in regions affected by conflict or to implement peace agreements.
We are already involved in two cases, through the High Representative for Bosnia-Herzegovina and through the EU' s participation in the UN' s transitional administration in Kosovo.
The major part of the EU' s operations in Kosovo, for example, will, of course, be concerned with actual reconstruction, but the EU must, naturally, also assume responsibility for those bodies which are required if there is to be a return to a society with a functioning civilian administration, able, in the long run, to become a democratic society cooperating closely with both the EU and the other Balkan countries.
We therefore demand a rethink, firstly of the legal basis for the aid provided by the Union and, secondly, of the way in which we are actually to use those resources which have traditionally been allocated within the sphere of foreign policy but which belong, rather, under the first pillar and Category 4.
If the Commission' s proposal and the Council' s wishes are to be complied with and a new budget item created, and if this is, moreover, to be provided with additional net financing, it will be necessary to consult Parliament and carry out a proper budget procedure.
I think that the sum of 27 million we are talking about here emphasises the need to review the budget.
I believe that most people judging the issue, possibly with the exception of the Council, would consider it impossible to use this aid in its entirety within the framework of the budget' s current Category 4.
Against this background, we support the Laschet report.
The intention is to transfer these appropriations from the common foreign and security policy in the second pillar to the first pillar, to be financed from the Commission' s budget.
Category 4 is already overloaded.
Kosovo is a ravaged country.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to use up all the time between now and the votes at 11 a.m.
That is what the debate on whether it should be established in the first or third pillars is all about.
The Commission will also endeavour to fulfil the new task with existing personnel.
The Commission is of the opinion that the financial and procedural regulations emanating from the High Representative' s office were improved during the course of 1999.
As soon as the supplementary budget, which I am hoping the Commission will approve on 10 May - I will present it in any case - has been adopted, it will be possible to rearrange the financing in the desired manner.
The debate is closed.
Carraro recommendation (A5-0118/2000) Madam President, I voted for the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the EU-Swiss Confederation agreements not only because I feel that it is extremely important for Switzerland, which will undoubtedly become part of the European Union in what we hope will be the near future, to have agreements established with the Member States of the Union, but also because, when I think of Switzerland, I feel a sense of relief.
Following these requests, negotiations between Switzerland and the European Union resulted in a package of sectoral agreements.
This is all the more important since a referendum on the agreement on the free movement of persons is due to be held in Switzerland on 21 May.
Schierhuber report (A5-0105/2000) Madam President, the Pensioners' Party voted in favour of the Schierhuber report on the Convention on European Community Food Aid to the world.
Laschet report (A5-0111/2000) Madam President, this report is chiefly concerned with providing the current situation in Kosovo with the semblance of a legal basis and pseudo-democratic backing.
Hatzidakis report (A5-0076/2000) Madam President, the Pensioners' Party, which is part of the Group of the European People' s Party, and I, myself, as its representative, voted for the Hatzidakis report on the granting of Community financial assistance in the field of Trans-European networks, mainly because communications within our Union are the single most important factor in the creation of Europe and the most important issue where the principle of subsidiarity is applied in practice.
Fourtou report (A5-0096/2000) - (NL) Protecting intellectual property rights is an important issue and so I applaud Mrs Fourtou for her report.
The harm suffered by the luxury goods industry is just the visible tip of the iceberg, probably also the least dangerous part.
According to the International Chamber of Commerce, the cost of counterfeiting represents between 5 and 7% of world trade.
I do not share the opinion expressed in Amendment No 8, since I think that confiscating illegally copied goods, even if it is only a simple compact disc, may well serve as an example and be of instructional value, particularly with regard to young people, who must learn that copying is damaging to the artist whose works they like.
This consumer must be protected, so much is clear.
We thought it useful to adopt, in the form of amendments, other conclusions which were not adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, particularly regarding the need for fast, effective civil law protection for intellectual property rights, and the need for realistic, appropriate and effective legislation on patents.
