We often wonder why citizens are disaffected with our institutions, our elections or our political agenda.
The aspiration of working to live and not living to work resulted in a virtuous circle of productivity improvements in Europe, accompanied by more free time for workers.
The text being submitted to the European Parliament today is the result of a compromise that was reached at the Council of 9 June during the Slovenian Presidency.
This is a step forward for the millions of people who work in this sector.
The European Parliament, moreover, definitively adopted this directive on 22 October, and I commend this decision, as it will improve the situation of temporary workers in the 17 Member States in which the principle of equal treatment from day one is not provided for under their national legislation.
The text now stipulates a limit of 60 or 65 hours, depending on the circumstances, compared with a limit of 78 hours per week, before.
I am thinking, in particular, of the abolition of the opt-out that France and other countries were defending, but this was a minority opinion, and we did not have enough power to impose it at the Council.
Of course, there is a considerable gap between Parliament's opinion at first reading and the Council's common position, but Parliament must recognise that there is an urgent need for some Member States to resolve the problem of on-call time, that the Slovenian compromise includes advances for workers, and that, within the Council, there is not the majority required to abolish the opt-out as it has existed without restrictions since 1993.
The debates at the European Parliament could provide a useful insight into the issues relating to this new definition.
With regard to the opt-out review clause, we must reach a conclusion without being either winners or losers because, objectively speaking, the balance of power will not allow it.
All avenues remain open, therefore, and that is why I am calling for a truce on this issue of the opt-out.
This evening the European Parliament is in a position of responsibility.
Your vote will determine the outcome of this issue, which has been on the table since 2004.
I hope that the debate that is now beginning will abandon any idea of confrontation and will take account of the Council's strong ambitions as they are reflected in the common position.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand the many fears that have been expressed in relation to this complex and important issue.
The key question is whether Parliament will stick to the view it adopted in 2005 at the first reading and which has been reiterated in the rapporteur's proposal, or whether Parliament is thinking of changing its position in reaction to the common viewpoint adopted by the Council in September of last year.
Public services across Europe are asking us to clarify the legal situation concerning on-call time.
This was done in response to the views of Parliament in the first reading and it has sought to defend this position during four years of heated debate with the Council.
In 2003 the opt-out was used by only four Member States, but today it is being used by fifteen Member States.
And many more Member States wish to retain the option of using it in the future.
The opt-out is now established in the current directive and if Parliament and the Council cannot agree to its removal it will remain in force without limitations, in accordance with the current wording.
The common approach also includes specific well-formulated provisions for the future revision of the opt-out.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PT) I believe that an agreement with the Council on this directive could have been discussed before Parliament's second reading.
I want to make it clear that I agree with revising the positions adopted at first reading, but I can only do this responsibly in the context of a compromise, which presupposes dialogue between the two institutions.
The two most politically important issues in this directive are on-call time and the opt-out clause.
As regards on-call time, I do not see any reason not to comply with the Court of Justice judgments.
As for the opt-out clause, in my opinion this is an issue which has nothing to do with flexibility in the labour market.
The fundamental issue here is to decide whether or not we want European workers to be able to work more than 48 hours per week as an annual average, in other words from Monday to Saturday, eight hours a day, and whether this fits with statements that everyone makes in this House, for example, about reconciling family life with work.
Absolutely, because we have a common labour market and we have to have minimum standards in respect of health and safety.
We differ from the Council on two points in particular.
The similarity lies in the fact that we are both saying that it is possible to find flexible solutions if the social partners reach agreement at national or local level.
Secondly, I wonder whether we should not see it as a challenge in the current climate that some people have to work 60-65 hours while at the same time so many people are unemployed.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the Council common position is, of course, not ideal but I am well aware that it has taken many years of negotiations by Member States to actually get this far.
This is a far more transparent way of protecting workers' rights than using a definition of autonomous worker that is so loose it could apply to anyone, as it does in many Member States, or the use of multiple contracts, whereby an employer can employ the same employee on one, two or even three contracts, something which is used in some other Member States.
All legal workers are covered by these directives, whether they opt in or opt out of the Working Time Directive.
That is why I tabled my amendment in the Employment and Social Affairs Committee to say that on-call time should be classed as working time.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, excessive working hours make workers ill and result in loss of concentration and increasing numbers of mistakes.
Likewise, we disapprove of the fact that the Commission is now classifying working time spent on-call as inactive time and considering it a rest period.
This is why we must reaffirm our position from first reading.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has accomplished.
The Council's proposals pose some very serious questions, as all the other rapporteurs have said before me.
The first being the opt-out.
It is therefore clear to me that a review of the directive is necessary and would undoubtedly be useful, but whatever happens, we must not replace a legislative vacuum with worrying ambiguities.
The Confederal Group of the Left is calling for the opt-out to be abolished, for the twelve-month averaging of working time to be abolished and for on-call time to count as working time.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, the Working Time Directive is a waste of time.
On 18 December 2007, the rapporteur said that a group of countries did not want the WTD or a social Europe.
Bury this unworkable time directive once again and for all. - (SK) Allow me to add my thanks to the rapporteur for the submitted draft directive on the organisation of working time, which forms an appendix to Directive No. 88 of 2003.
As the European Commission and the European Council have devoted considerable attention to preparing this document, I believe it therefore deserves an extensive debate on our side.
This mainly concerns assessments of the time during which employees are supposed to be available or on call.
Moreover, though we may wish through this directive to help workers recover their strength and enjoy a better family life, I doubt whether employers will share the same intention.
I was particularly struck by a family mentioned in a paper just three days ago: the husband had lost his job in construction and the wife had to take two part-time jobs in order to keep their family of three children and the husband in their house.
She had to work 12 hours a day, seven days a week.
If we do not support it, the workers will not get it and they will know who to blame. (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would appeal once more to those in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who are still wavering, in particular, to unite in following the vote of Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and retaining the position from first reading on Wednesday.
Indeed, it was not without reason that the ILO recommended the 48-hour week as far back as 1919.
As regards on-call time, I would say to the Council that this must be recognised as working time as a general rule.
The Cercas report seizes this opportunity and proposes the gradual abolition of any possible derogation from the maximum legal limit on the number of hours worked.
And, amid this chorus of praise that will certainly appease the French Government from tomorrow, I believe that we need to take an interest, first and foremost, in workers who are going to be required to work even more, without really having any choice in the matter, such as all those in France who are in future going to be asked to work on Sundays.
I would add that it is obviously for the purposes of introducing this option that the French Government has changed its opinion on the individual opt-out at the Council.
Far from overcoming the system of opt-outs, of individual agreements on exemptions, these are in fact set to become the general rule.
Once again, we are working in two opposite directions.
On the one hand, we are proclaiming better reconciliation of work and family in order to improve the birth rate, which has been falling for years, and on the other hand we are letting Sundays and public holidays degenerate increasingly into normal working days - whereby traditions and family life inevitably fall by the wayside.
I think the Council is wrong to consider inactive working time a rest period.
Marathons of up to 72 hours on duty would result.
Nevertheless, not all on-call time is the same.
Free collective bargaining and dialogue between the two sides of industry are key elements of social Europe.
Therefore, I endorse the Cercas report in principle, but also support flexibility by means of derogations for certain professions.
Secondly, for a small country like Estonia, it is important that the rest time provided in compensation for overtime be granted a reasonable time after the extra hours were done.
Thirdly, on-call hours are working hours.
Indeed, I would refute the right of this European Parliament to attempt to rob my country of that entitlement.
Yet here we have ideologues intent on foisting their precious social agenda on everyone, even where it is unwanted.
As social politicians have said, the beggar has the same right to sleep under the bridge as the millionaire - in that sense, of course, we are indeed talking about freedom of contract.
But in reality we are talking about an unequal situation that does not so much foster flexibility as maintain this inequality.
What is more, flexibility is very well served by the solution formulated in Parliament's first reading.
For 26 weeks, a person may work as many as 72 hours, thereby adjusting to the needs of the market, a high volume of orders and heavy workloads.
Remuneration for the work performed is a different matter altogether, one that can be negotiated between the respective employer and employee organisations - it is possible to adjust to the reality in each country and national competence, but working time is working time and has to be considered as such.
The Council and Parliament now have an opportunity to do just that.
Mr Bushill-Matthews spoke of a woman working 12 hours per day, seven days per week as if that were acceptable.
As I said earlier, tonight's debate and our vote on this report will send a clear signal to the citizens of Europe.
The Cercas report does not touch the body of the reactionary proposals in the Council's common position.
Supermarkets, hospital staff, doctors and services are working under a miserable regime, forced to remain in the workplace for twelve or fourteen hours a day.
It increases the period of time for averaging working time from four months, which applies now, to a twelve-month basis, it maintains the opt-out, it attacks the fixed daily working time, payment of overtime, duty days and collective employment contracts in general and it assists employers in their endeavour to make flexible forms of employment even more general, which will have serious and painful repercussions on social insurance systems.
Mr President, when the Council adopted its common position in September, it was a bad day for social dialogue.
The second objective concerns on-call time, which cannot be considered as inactive working time but must be considered for all intents and purposes as working time, just as it is appropriate to safeguard the right to a compensatory rest period for medical staff.
Indeed, the Member States have adapted well to this state of affairs by now, and not one hospital or other institution has yet gone bankrupt as a result.
After all, we all know that employment relationships are characterised not by equality of status, but by an opposition between invariably economically stronger employers on the one hand and workers dependent on their capacity for work on the other.
If need be, workers dependent on their jobs to survive will risk their health to support themselves and their families.
I largely support our committee's report and the position of my colleague Mr Silva Peneda, and hope for a sound, humane solution in the conciliation procedure. (EL) Mr President, the only service the Council's common position and efforts by the French Presidency have rendered us is that we are again discussing the problem.
That is why two amendments have been tabled and I call on the House to support them, so that Parliament's proposal includes this element of European civilisation and I hope that it will be supported by all the honourable Members who, I see, are using their inactive time and being paid for normal time.
What no one has mentioned today is that many people in financial institutions, law firms, investment companies and so forth, regularly work weeks of 60, 70 or more hours, without this causing any raised eyebrows.
In conclusion, I think that the Council has proposed a kind of compromise, and we will obviously progress to the conciliation phase, and I hope we find a reasonable solution for that phase. (DE) Mr President, the principle that the entirety of on-call time is to be considered working time must hold; I agree with the rapporteur on this.
I believe that the common position must be amended in this respect.
The common position even envisages the possibility of considering the inactive part of on-call time to be a rest period.
This could lead to marathons of 72 hours and more on duty, which should not be allowed in any Member State.
For example, it also covers fire-fighters, who can sleep or even engage in recreational activities while on call.
Practice-oriented collective agreements have been negotiated on this by the parties to such agreements in the past.
Opt-outs are possible only with the consent of the worker concerned, and this consent must not be given in conjunction with the employment contract.
For this reason, we must take a considered approach to decisions on labour policy, and have the courage of our convictions.
We are against the opt-out in principle, because this is health and safety law, but we have proposed the 12-month averaging of working time rather than the four-month current averaging period.
This gives phenomenal flexibility for individuals and firms in the planning of working time.
The amount of flexibility included here is far better than the use of the opt-out; it is a far better choice for firms and for individuals.
I hope that message goes out very strongly from this debate. - (PL) The idea of drawing a distinction between active and inactive working time is a dangerous and dishonest approach.
That time should be remunerated at the same rate.
I would be interested to know of any patient, ideally a Member of the European Council, who would happily agree to be operated on by a doctor who had already been on duty for 23 hours.
Hospitals in Poland have refused to employ doctors refusing to sign the opt-out clause.
Children need guidance and supervision from their parents, but if the latter have less or even no time to spend with their families, this can have negative repercussions on the children's upbringing.
No employer must be able to ask an employee to work more than 48 hours a week.
I also welcome the amendments which stress the importance of collective labour agreements. (RO) In the current climate of financial crisis, which is having a direct impact on European citizens' economic and social lives, the working time directive is a key element in European social policies.
Our Committee had sufficient time in which to consider its opinion, and I trust the outcome of our vote in committee will be reflected during the vote in plenary the day after tomorrow.
The compromise arrived at in June at Council is unacceptable.
It is indeed the case that the Council's compromise refers to potential flexibility at the level of the social partners and collective agreements.
However, there is another matter in need of clarification.
In particular, I should like to draw the attention of those Members who are calling for a strong stance on the opt-out issue to this point.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Cercas, ladies and gentlemen, the Working Time Directive is, of course, rich in symbols and does raise matters of principle, the freedom of choice of workers versus the protection of their health and safety being one of them.
As I have already indicated, France has long been opposed to the opt-out.
As far as on-call time is concerned, the aim is to permit the Member States to deal with it in a specific way, by taking account of the inactive periods it includes.
The opt-out has existed without safeguards since 1993.
The common position does not involve anyone renouncing their principles or their convictions.
This debate deals with matters of supreme importance and in my view it is now up to Parliament to take a decision.
The directive states that there is an option for individual Member States to introduce the opt-out.
The opt-out is currently being applied in 15 Member States.
The reason for the new directive is the pressure that resulted from the decision of the Court in the case of SIMAP and Jaeger, since the decision brought about a very difficult situation for a number of systems which traditionally rely on large amounts of on-call time.
This is why the debate is so complicated, as on the one hand it impinges on the protection of workers through the regulation of working times to a certain extent, and on the other hand it applies to a number of highly sensitive systems, such as health care or, for example, emergency services such as the fire service and others.
This progress will be the result of a debate in all institutions, the result of both cooperation and debate, and one of the most significant steps along the way will be the vote in Parliament on 17 December this year.
I have not talked to 160 million workers or 4 million doctors, but I have talked to their representative organisations.
We stand up for their rights, and on 17 December social Europe will emerge empowered.
Written statement (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this directive will be a decisive text for the construction of an economic and social Europe.
In particular, it should be pointed out that, for medical personnel, adequate safeguards in the organisation of shifts and rest periods are essential to guarantee not only fair conditions in themselves, but also to guarantee the safety and quality of care for patients and a reduction of clinical risk.
I therefore think that this 48-hour limit is the preferable option.
In practice this means an employee may work eight hours for six days of the week averaged over four months.
A social Europe cannot be an empty slogan, not even in times of economic difficulties.
The main reason for this is that the relationship between employees and employers can never be equal.
in writing. - (FR) For more than three years now the Council and the European Union have been at loggerheads over this Working Time Directive.
As European socialists, we shall, in any case, continue to defend workers because, now more than ever, Europe needs a social model that meets the needs of the most vulnerable citizens and especially of those most affected by the consequences of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, rarely has EU legislation affected so many.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs showed a good example by improving on the Commission proposal with a clear show of hands.
The employee is free to choose between a long working week and having a job at all.
The Committee adopted my amendment to include employees in managerial positions in the directive.
The boss also needs the protection of the law - he or she can get tired too.
The Council and the Commission have not consented to reconsider their position on the matter of on-call time.
in writing. - I will vote to end the opt out from the 48 hour week.
in writing. - The debate on the organisation of working time is complex.
But the most difficult issues are the future of the opt-out and the treatment of on-call time.
In the SIMAP and Jaeger cases the European Court of Justice interpreted the definition of working time in the original Working Time Directive to include the inactive part of on-call time when an employee is not working but resting.
In the Council agreement of 9 and 10 June 2008, the inactive part of on-call time is not regarded as working time, unless national law/practice/collective agreements or agreements between the social partners provide otherwise.
Under the Council agreement, the possibility for an employee to opt out of the maximum average working week of 48 hours, provided for in the original Working Time Directive, is subject to more stringent conditions in order to protect the health and safety of workers.
The proposal has many supporters and opponents.
The population growth rate in 2007 reached a tiny 0.12%.
This will allow us to take a further important step in our efforts to avert the negative trends affecting the development of our society.
