Indeed, in a proposed formation of a restructuring fund, as has been suggested in the report in the framework of the 1st pillar, it is suggested that there should be funding to modernise the sector, especially the ginning industry, as stated primarily in amendments 9, 14, 16, 23, 26, 31 and 39.
I think it is fair to say that we all welcome regulatory cooperation, especially where this will help to facilitate more trade and especially where it helps facilitate transatlantic trade, because all too often, our two large trading blocks - the EU and the US - are at loggerheads on trade issues.
Therefore, as we seek to adopt common global standards, let us make sure that we are also in a position to help producers from poorer countries to adopt those standards as well, so that we are not using these standards as an excuse to shut them out from world markets.
As part of this process, it is essential, for example, for the Subcommittee on Human Rights to undertake a systematic evaluation of the relevant instruments, and for Parliament to be involved in the European Union's human rights dialogues.
The point is that these principles should not be interpreted as something like a norm for the Member States. (BG) Thank you, Mme Chair.
In general I think we prefer to improve and increase international trade through the multilateral framework of the World Trade Organisation, but I think we have to recognise the role that bilaterals play in extending trade and the benefits of globalisation throughout the world.
But in this context it is particularly appropriate, given that Burma is a member of ASEAN.
Unfortunately the EU is hell-bent on trade-block-to-trade-block negotiations, and for this reason I abstained. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me great satisfaction to make this explanation of vote while you are in the Chair, Mrs Morgantini, and especially with the welcome sound of Members applauding behind me.
I wish to say in my personal capacity, and this relates to me personally as an individual Member and also as a representative of the Pensioners' Party, that I voted against this report on the regulation of lobbies.
Already we have had exposed by my illustrious colleague Mr Hannon, in Commission Questions, the amount of money that charity organisations like the NSPCC in the UK get directly from the European Commission, and then it comes as no surprise when they write to us to say: actually, we should be in favour of the Lisbon Treaty.
It is therefore essential to support projects aimed at the development of sporting facilities in schools and beyond, together with plans to involve children in extra-curricular activities.
I believe that it is important to support sporting activities at grass roots , that is to say, at the level that is closest to the citizen.
I would have loved to have voted in favour of this, if only the European institutions were doing something useful in sport.
I am bringing this proposal back - and I have been talking to all the different rapporteurs in this place - but you do wonder actually how interested this place is in sport.
I will be pressing this again this year and I record this interest with the Special Olympics, a wonderful organisation, here today. (PL) Madam President, I voted in favour of the report by Mr Mavrommatis.
I voted in favour of it and I consider it to be excellent.
I also want to say that there was something wrong with my voting machine and, for example, at point 42 I could not get it to work properly.
I voted for the Friedrich report because it rejected the attack on the unique and wide-ranging role played by the recognised churches in society, and also offers a more nuanced view of the role of lawyers.
If other Member States have too many boats to fish their own traditional fishing waters they should address this issue themselves - and not depend upon the EU to find more waters for them to plunder.
in writing. - (FR) I am pleased that the European Parliament approved the amendments to the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Seychelles for the period 2005-2011.
That is why, given the average level of catches over the past three years, the reference tonnage has been increased from 55 000 tonnes to 63 000 tonnes.
The total annual financial contribution thus increases from EUR 4 125 000 to EUR 5 355 000.
in writing. - (PL) The sea and maritime resources are very important for the European Union in terms of employment and economic growth.
Maritime resources should be exploited in a responsible manner.
The fisheries and aquaculture sector supplies approximately 7.3 million tonnes of fish a year; 360 000 people are employed in the fisheries and processing sector.
I therefore believe that the EU should reach agreements with third countries on common fisheries policies, or improve existing arrangements.
in writing. - (PT) We support the application of more individual rules, with derogations and specific, different and tailored measures duly adapted to the economic realities of the outermost regions and more favourable to their production capacities.
This rate, which is lower than the national rate fixed, will apply in those cases where the annual production of the brewery does not exceed 300 000 hectolitres.
in writing. - (DE) The only reason why I am voting in favour of this decision on excise duty is its limited local scope, so it cannot adversely affect the Brauerei zu Göss brewery in Austria, which - as is well-known - produces the best beer in Europe.
in writing. - (PL) The issue dealt with by the rapporteur invites reflection on how to reconcile support for consolidation of a system of genuine competition with the principle of equality before the law.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my Italian colleague Monica Frassoni on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission on procedures for implementing the Council Decision laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission, as amended by Decision 2006/512/EC of 17 July 2006.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of the Frassoni report concerning the new comitology procedures.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my Italian colleague Monica Frassoni on the amendment of Rule 81 of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure on the so-called 'comitology' implementing measures.
in writing. - (FR) Mr President, Mrs Frassoni's report highlights the somewhat cavalier attitude the Commission adopts, when it has power, in relation to the European Parliament.
We therefore regret that the Commission has not had the opportunity to present a proposal in this area which is in line with the policy for other agricultural sectors in which support has been de-coupled from production.
in writing. - (PT) Given that the cotton sector is of great socio-economic importance to certain regions of the European Union, particularly Greece and Spain, the European Commission and the European Parliament should pay particular attention to this.
In addition, barely more than a year after the implementation of the reform of the common organisation of the market in cotton, the disastrous consequences of this can already be seen: production in this sector has fallen almost 20% in Greece and over 50% in Spain.
I have voted against the Gklavakis report, as did my political group, because, despite a limited number of positive amendments to the Commission's original motion, the overall balance is negative.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution of 8 May 2008 on the Transatlantic Economic Council, which underlines that a close transatlantic partnership is a vital instrument to shape globalisation in the interest of common values and towards an equitable political and economic global order.
Secure trade is particularly important in an ever more integrated global economy, but I agree that the proposal to scan 100% of foreign containers as part of the fight against terrorist threats is unjustified and unrealistic.
in writing. - (FR) I abstained during the final vote on this resolution for the following reasons in particular.
The resolution contains positive points, such as the reference to the precautionary principle.
The resolution, in an (impossible) attempt to hide the true aims, contradictions and consequences of realising the 'transatlantic market', highlights certain potential social or environmental concerns.
We find this reasoning unacceptable.
in writing. - (PT) The realisation that there is a great deal of life in relations between the United States and the European Union, aside from third-country issues (although, even in these, the disagreement is not necessarily insurmountable), is vitally important.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my Italian colleague Marco Cappato on human rights in the world in 2007.
The new United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) has the potential to develop into a valuable framework for improving the human rights situation in the world.
in writing. - (IT) I am explaining my vote in favour of the report on the protection of human rights, given that they are still being infringed all too often today.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the adoption today of Mr Cappato's motion for a resolution on the Annual Report on Human Rights in the World 2007 and the EU's policy on the matter.
This report looks at the progress made in all parts of the world in the area of human rights and assesses the efforts made by the EU to promote human rights in its actions and policies.
The June List supports the important work for human rights which is taking place all over the world, but we consider that this Annual Report is yet another attempt by this Parliament to extend the EU's competence in areas of foreign policy.
The situation in many countries is very disturbing, and the international community must of course react.
We have therefore chosen to vote against the report.
in writing. - (PT) Every year we are confronted with this exercise in hypocrisy of the European Parliament on human rights in the world.
However, in essence, it is a perfect example of the instrumentalisation of human rights and their unacceptable use as a political weapon in favour of the interests of the EU's major powers, and their large financial and economic groups, and against those people who reject their dictates.
As such, there is a total absence of any references to and denouncements of the flagrant violations of human rights in Palestine, Iraq, Afghanistan, occupied Cyprus or the Western Sahara, as perpetrated by EU countries and/or their allies such as the US, Israel, Turkey or Morocco.
Human rights abuses take place around the world and we in the EU must always act as advocates for those who suffer as a result.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, I voted against the group on Amendment 12 to paragraph 94 of Mr Cappato's report, by which the concept of 'sexual and reproductive health' would be deleted.
Paragraph 94 is a reminder that health programmes, including sexual and reproductive health, should be prominent in the EU's development and human rights policy, in particular where gender-based violence is pervasive and women and children are put at risk of HIV/AIDS, or denied access to information, prevention and/or treatment.
in writing. - (DE) I voted in favour of the report on the state of human rights in the world in 2007 and the EU's policy in this area.
The EU has the opportunity to champion the cause of human rights globally.
The EU must present a strong and united front in its dealings with these countries, and that is only possible with a common human rights policy for the EU.
in writing. - I welcome Mr Cappato's report on the state of human rights in the world in 2007 and the EU's policy in this area.
in writing. - (DE) The reasons why I did not vote for the motion for a resolution on the human rights report are as follows: 1.
However, it completely ignores the absence of social and economic rights in much of the world, as a result of which millions of people are dying of hunger or lack housing and employment.
The report does not deal with the human rights violations perpetrated or endorsed by EU Member States.
However, in order to avoid any accusations of hypocrisy, the EU must investigate and shed light on the human rights violations committed with the participation or compliance of EU Member States in third countries or against third-country nationals; these include, for example, the accusations of torture levelled against troops engaged in the EU's Operation Artemis in Congo; 3.
However, with the Lisbon Treaty and the announcements made in connection with France's assumption of the Council Presidency in the second half of 2008, there is a real concern that the EU will be involved in more military missions.
in writing. - (PT) The report voted on today, which follows on from the Council and Commission report, has the virtue of generally being an up-to-date and critical depiction of human rights in the world.
Unfortunately, however, it is not much more than this.
I chose to abstain from voting on this matter because Mr Cappato's report contains parts which advocate that decisions should be taken by the EU (in particular paragraphs 15, 45 and 141).
in writing. - (PL) The Cappato report gave priority to the issue of unspecified discrimination based on sexual orientation and to reproductive rights.
That is the reason why I was unable to support this report during today's vote.
in writing. - British Conservatives recognise the important role of the EU in promoting human rights and democracy in the world.
We can support a number of important points that are contained in the Cappato report.
We believe the EU's Member States have an important role to play in this task.
in writing. - (DE) I did not vote for the human rights report, for the following reasons: 1.
The internal and external effects of the EU's neoliberal policies, with their negative consequences for human and fundamental rights, are not mentioned in the report. 3.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report prepared jointly by my Belgian colleague Véronique de Keyser and my Spanish colleague José Ignacio Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra on EU election observation missions (EOMs).
However, the EU does have a role to play as an election observer together with these other international bodies.
We have therefore chosen to support the report.
in writing. - (PT) This own-initiative report must not be viewed in isolation, but rather as an integrated element of the EU's common foreign and security policy.
in writing. - I supported the De Keyser/Salafranca Sanchez-Neyra report, which deals with important issues.
in writing. - (DE) I am in favour of strengthening the EU's election observation missions in order to provide effective support to young democracies.
The EU has taken on a leading role in election observation and should now develop this role intensively.
in writing. - (DE) This House flies the flag for democracy and sends its observers to various elections.
For the citizens of the country concerned, it is vital that these elections are conducted fairly and in a proper manner.
in writing. - (PT) The moment of an election is not in any way the only moment or the only exponent of democracy.
For this reason, everything stated in this report on the success, difficulties, inadequacies and needs for reform of the European Union's election observation missions (EOMs) is important and deserves our full attention, but it will always miss the essential point: the overall contribution of the various European instruments to the achievement of democracy (in which the EU's EOMs are obviously involved).
The promotion and protection of democracy are not only part of the DNA of the European Union but are also part of its world vision, both in terms of principles and values and in terms of its own interests.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent own-initiative report by my esteemed British colleague Glyn Ford on trade and economic relations with the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), which is part of a broader strategy of bilateral and inter-regional negotiations with the trading partners.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am backing this report because I am convinced that free trade is a necessary step towards global well-being.
The political situation in Myanmar and the release of political prisoners are very important issues, but they should not be made part of the EU's supranational trade policy.
On the other hand, the June List sees free-trade agreements between the EU and other regions as a natural consequence of having a single market and a common commercial policy.
in writing. - (PT) According to the report, obtaining commercial advantages by establishing free trade agreements (FTAs) with various regions is the best political strategy for Europe to overcome the crisis, at least while the impasse in the World Trade Organisation continues.
However, the report also looks to go further.
Even amendments which underlined the need to take account of existing disparities between the two regions and the objectives of creating employment and ensuring sustainable economic development, food sovereignty and security, and environmental protection were rejected.
We could therefore only vote against this report.
in writing. - I support Glyn Ford's report on Trade and Economic Relations with ASEAN.
Indeed, a recent OECD survey on counterfeiting, discussed in Parliament this week, states that trade in counterfeit goods in Malaysia and the Philippines has reached proportions similar to China.
The report deals with these issues and I voted in favour of its recommendations.
in writing. - (PL) The European Union should exercise particular care when handling trade and economic relations with third countries.
The rate of GDP growth in ASEAN countries is increasing year on year.
Malaysia's GDP translates into USD 6 721 per inhabitant.
It is forecast to increase to USD 7 596 in 2008.
In 2007 the Malaysian economy recorded a 6.3% increase in GDP.
We therefore feel it is essential that this forms one of the priorities of the Member States' action in terms of improving the collection and availability of reliable data, including the analysis of reasons for non-application or less correct application of the management measures in force, as mentioned in the report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Miguélez Ramos report on deep-sea fisheries.
I welcome the call in Mrs Miguélez Ramos' report for fishermen and their associations to be fully involved in defining measures designed to safeguard the marine environment.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, some 2 500 lobbying organisations are currently active in Brussels.
Following on from that statement I should like to emphasise the importance of increased transparency on the part of the European institutions, and equal treatment of all organisations represented in Brussels.
in writing. - (PT) It is well-known that the professional lobbying sector - with the aim of influencing EU policy making - is developing fast and constantly in Brussels.
However, we can only regret that the proposals tabled by our Group were not adopted, specifically those arguing that interest representatives, in addition to being under an obligation to register, should also be obliged to disclose their expenditure on their activities, particularly by giving the same information on interest representation expenditure spent on Members of the European Parliament as the latter are obliged to disclose in their financial declarations.
in writing. - I will be supporting this report, strengthening as it does the rules of the European institutions regarding lobbyists.
For me lobbyists are all those who want to come into the Parliament, Commission or Council to influence the decision-making process, whether employers or employees, consumer groups, producer groups or special interest groups.
It is estimated there are around 5 000 lobbyist in Brussels - seven for each and every MEP.
in writing. - (FR) I abstained on the Stubb report on the framework for the activities of lobbyists because I believe that some of my fellow Members are making too much of a fuss over an activity that is as old as mankind, namely the attempt to influence decision-makers.
It is normal for citizens to get together to defend their interests.
in writing. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is perfectly normal to consult the parties affected by legislation that is being prepared or adopted.
Their activity is useful, but their relations with all the institutions must be governed by a strong, coherent framework, and that is why we will vote in favour of this report.
It is important not to put all interest groups together: the representatives of multinationals or NGOs cannot be treated in the same way as the representatives of democratic local or national authorities.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of this report, which ensures greater transparency.
It is, however, essential to be able to identify the organisations represented by the pressure groups.
There should be a set of rules governing permanent access by lobbyists to the premises of the European Parliament.
We support increased transparency in political decision-making.
Citizens should be able to contact their representatives without their conversations and opinions being reported openly.
Transparency must be based on politicians taking responsibility for their positions and accounting for their motives.
in writing. - I welcome the proposed register of lobbyists.
However, a number of my own group's key amendments designed to make stricter rules were unsuccessful and accordingly both I and the group abstained on the final vote.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of this report, but I believe more actions could be adopted in order to guarantee a balanced representation of the citizens, without favouring the groups of interests around the European institutions.
The lobby activity has experienced an important evolution, currently reaching over 2,500 organizations with more than 15,000 employees in Brussels alone.
It is obvious that we have to facilitate the dialogue between the European institutions and those organizations in the Member States.
For this reason, I believe the Commission and the Parliament representations should fulfil the function of transmitting the opinions and various initiatives of the citizens to the European decision-making institutions.
in writing. - (PL) I am glad that the European Parliament is dealing with lobbying.
This is a sensitive area in political and economic terms.
After all, Members and officials of the European Commission and other institutions do not operate in their own isolated world.
It will always be possible to find a loophole in the provisions or a way around them.
We should also bear in mind that so-called bad lobbying is also possible through direct contacts in the Member States.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, it is a pity that Amendment 7, which was proposed on behalf of my group, was not adopted.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of the report on the establishment of a framework for the activities of interest representatives in the European institutions.
in writing. - (NL) Half-baked measures will be no help at all with the problem of lobbyists.
Politicians should be influenced in the first place by their voters, their supporters and their own good sense, not by an army of professional lobbyists.
The European Parliament and its Members are not independent.
They have been elected on a platform representing class interests which they represent in the European Parliament.
These proposals for more transparency in lobbying place the European Parliament well ahead of almost any other parliament in the world in terms of regulating lobbyists and ensuring full financial disclosure.
For years I have been urging, in questions to the European Commission among other things, the strictest possible regulations governing transparency with regard to lobbyists.
It provides a clearer definition of the activities of lobbyists, of whom there are an estimated 15 000.
I therefore support the initiative to establish a common register where lobbyists will be able to register just once to gain access to the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
In addition, all lobbyists will thereby commit to observing a code of conduct.
It is essential for Members and European officials to be able to identify the organisations represented by interest groups and for these groups to respect the principles of honesty and good conduct.
For example, a Member will always have a better understanding of the issues involved in a legislative proposal after having listened to the opinion of the professional associations, NGOs, trade unions or regional representatives.
in writing. - (PT) The changes in our globalised world and their consequences on the institutions are undoubtedly resulting in ever-increasing exposure to various social actors.
We are therefore seeing increasing numbers of groups contacting this Parliament or the Commission, providing specialised information which is recognised as important.
A parliamentarian always has a great need to obtain relevant information in order to be able to make good decisions.
in writing. - (DA) I voted in favour of the lobby report in its final version because in spite of everything it is a microscopic step forward in relation to the current situation.
The failure to progress further is in itself proof of the influence that lobbyists have over the EU system.
in writing. - The need for greater transparency of lobbying is essential in the European Parliament.
I voted in favour of the lobby report in its final version because it is, in spite of everything, a microscopic step forward relative to the present situation.
The fact that it did not succeed in going further is in itself testament to how much influence lobbyists have over the EU system.
In many instances funding comes from television rights, so for this reason I believe it is advisable not only to allow media organisations to pay to cover sporting fixtures but also to ensure broad public access, at least to major events.
Man has always risen to this challenge.
Over 120 young people have received awards so far.
Support for this type of action at regional level should be a key element of the effort to promote a healthy lifestyle across the European Union.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report on the White Paper on Sport.
in writing. - (PT) The report contained proposals that we tabled in committee recommending that the specific associations for the different categories of persons involved in sport should also be appropriately represented in the decision-making bodies of international and national federations, and defending preventative measures and health checks for young sportspeople, ensuring that all the rights enshrined in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child are respected.
The Lisbon Treaty is also 96% identical to the Constitutional Treaty which has already been rejected in referendums in France and the Netherlands.
It is therefore completely unprincipled to refer to the Lisbon Treaty in this report.
We are therefore voting against this report.
in writing. - (PL) I congratulate the rapporteur and am glad Parliament acted on its own initiative to take up an issue of such importance to citizens of the European Union.
From our earliest years, sport teaches us about fair competition and honesty, and helps us to understand that our so-called role in the match depends on our own commitment, and that all the work and huge effort devoted to preparing for competitions will be rewarded.
Genuine sport must be free from violence, whilst individual efforts to achieve the best possible results must be free from the scourge of our times, namely doping.
This recognition of Scottish sporting independence has played an important role in my country's past and will play an important role after the 2010 Scottish independence referendum - when Scotland will become a full, independent Member State of the EU.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of the White Paper on Sport in order to underscore the importance of sport in the European Union and foster dialogue on this issue.
Sport also has an important economic dimension.
For these reasons, it is important to create a framework in which the Member States can support sports organisations and events.
I also welcome the creation of a special Sports Fund to support sporting activities and facilitate people's access to sport.
We therefore cannot support the steps taken to further increase EU policy in this area.
The report, like the Commission's White Paper, treats sport as yet another area of business activity designed to rake in money.
in writing. - I generally support Manolis Mavrommatis' white paper on sport.
in writing. - (IT) I welcome the report by Manolis Mavrommatis on the White Paper on Sport.
I believe it necessary to point out that any kind of infringement of civil or moral ethical rules in sport - such as doping, deliberately racist gestures or gambling - must be punished, in an attempt to return to the ideals and ultimate purpose of sport.
No one can reasonably be opposed to EU Member States taking strong action against doping and xenophobia within sport.
in writing. - This report on the White Paper on Sport needs to recognise that there is a subsidiarity issue over sport in the EU.
That is why I support Amendment No 2.
We therefore cannot support the steps taken to further increase EU policy in this area.
