Although it has not been approved, I have therefore voted in favour of the proposal that the European Union Treaty be modified, so that there can be Community legislation in the field of respect and protection for languages, particularly minority languages, as well as the creation of a European Agency for Linguistic Diversity and Multilingualism.
This a further reason why I voted in favour of this report. (DE) Mr President, I voted in favour of this report.
It includes an extremely ambitious position, which is aimed at making all sixty or so minority languages official languages, but this is somewhat to the detriment of the 21 national languages of the Union, some of which are already, to some extent, under great threat: Latvian, Lithuanian, Estonian, Hungarian and Slovenian are not languages of international communication.
Owing to its uniqueness and to the fact that it is spoken by some 200 million people in eight countries spread over five continents, the Portuguese language should be one of the EU official languages.
in writing. (SV) Multilingualism is important for freedom of movement within the European Union.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report before us because multilingualism is a subject that is close to my heart and because I feel that the EU should send out a loud and clear message promoting linguistic diversity in its territory.
For this reason, my vote in favour of Amendment 4 is a way of emphasising the call for the Commission to set out a specific timetable for extending the Indicator to all of the official EU languages, as I proposed in my written statement.
We need to recognise the uniqueness of the European Parliament in having simultaneous interpretation in 21 different languages, soon to be 23.
In 2005, 70 trade unionists were killed, while 260 received death threats, 56 were arbitrarily detained, seven survived attacks in which explosives or firearms were used, six were kidnapped, and three disappeared.
The Commission must through regular and transparent evaluation ensure the implementation of the relevant ILO conventions. (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to explain why I voted in favour of the proposed recommendation for a directive on services in the internal market.
This will lead to the creation of more than half a million new jobs and will support economic growth in our countries.
Although the directive in its final form does not correspond entirely to my original idea of the liberalisation of services in the EU internal market, it will still bring added value to all stakeholders, and this is why I voted in favour of it.
Fellow Members, it has been two years since we started working on this document enabling the freedom which has been our fundamental right for as long as 50 years.
The principle of country of origin (a prerequisite for the free movement of services), services of general interest, healthcare, social and other services have all been excluded from the proposal for a Directive.
I therefore voted to reject the common position.
Indeed, services of general economic interest are still part of the scope of the directive, as are some services of general interest.
The scope of the exclusion of social services of general interest is also far more limited.
The fundamental rights guaranteed by the European Charter now only feature in a recital.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the motion to reject the Council common position on services in the internal market.
The vote at second reading was cast on a backwards-looking text in comparison with the vote at first reading.
in writing. - (FR) The French members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have refused, this Wednesday 15 November, to endorse the report on services in the internal market, in other words the Services Directive.
Indeed, despite the very important advances made by the PSE and the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Gebhardt, at first reading - not least the rejection of the country of origin principle - Parliament has not obtained any guarantees from the Commission regarding a draft framework directive on public services.
Furthermore, we tabled several amendments aimed specifically at guaranteeing respect for the freedom of the Member States to define what they mean by social services of general interest.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the amendment aimed at rejecting the Council common position on the Services Directive.
It is therefore a liberal Services Directive that has been adopted this 15 November.
Despite the significant progress made in relation to the European Commission's initial text, the text on services in the Union that has been proposed today at second reading does not offer guarantees that are sufficient to prevent any risk of the European social model falling apart.
Certain sensitive social services, such as social housing, family support services and public health services, which were initially excluded from the scope of the future directive at first reading, have thus been reintegrated by the Member States.
For all these reasons, I voted to reject the proposal for a directive on services.
in writing. - (FR) If the new version of the Bolkestein Directive had not already suffered from serious shortcomings, particularly that of not being fundamentally different from its predecessor, one reason alone would have prompted us to reject it: the suspicious consensus between the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and, what is more, their adoption of the compromise drafted at the Council.
The key issue in the debate on the Services Directive has been that of whether the country of origin principle should underpin the directive or whether the host country's legislation should apply in full.
The country of origin principle affects significant, but strictly limited, areas such as construction, installation activities and consultancy services.
The Council common position largely takes account of the fundamental amendments adopted by Parliament at first reading.
The country of origin principle has been deleted, and labour legislation and social agreements in the countries concerned have been respected.
In addition, Commission opinions have provided greater clarity.
in writing. - (FR) The Services Directive has just been adopted, by a clear majority.
The text adopted today in Strasbourg commits us to this path, while providing the necessary guarantees regarding the safeguarding of public services of general interest and the continuity of our social acquis and of our labour law.
This is a good compromise, which will take Europe forward in line with the interests of its population.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against this directive because I feel that, despite the improvements obtained in the parliamentary debate and under the pressure of the trade unions' and citizens' involvement, it remains profoundly liberal.
Finally, the 'prohibited requirements and requirements to be evaluated' in Articles 14 and 15 make it impossible or, at least, extremely difficult, to carry out any public regulation in the services sector.
It subordinates respect for the labour law of the Member State in which the service is provided to respect for Community law and, more specifically, for the free provision of services principle laid down in the Treaties, a move that amounts to denying the application of this national law.
in writing. - (FR) It is without enthusiasm that I am voting today in favour of the Services Directive.
in writing. - (MT) I voted in favour of this directive for two reasons.
The dangerous relocation of undertakings to countries with minimal social and environmental legislation is strengthened with the adoption of the directive.
The fight by the European left against social dumping will continue even after the vote on the directive, both at national and at European level, in cooperation with the trade unions and non-governmental organisations.
This text, in its current form, preserves the best parts of the European social model and recognises the specific nature of services of general interest.
in writing. - (FR) In line with my vote on the Services Directive at first reading, I voted to reject the common position.
I had to reject the Council common position because it clearly excludes labour law and social services of general interest.
That is why I co-signed and voted in favour of three amendments tabled by the French Socialist delegation providing for the clear and total exclusion of labour law and social services of general interest from the scope of the Services Directive.
I finally voted in favour of the amendments aimed at completely excluding services of general interest from the scope of this directive.
The EU is taking another step in the right direction with the Services Directive, which will facilitate the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services in the EU Member States offered by the internal market.
I voted for this Directive because I feel that Portugal has much to gain, as it will accordingly derive maximum benefit from the internal market.
Services of general economic interest fall within the directive's scope and since there is no framework directive for services of general interest, this directive is at risk of forming a horizontal framework for services of general economic interest.
Hitherto, the debates on the draft have been the greatest example of European hypocrisy that we have witnessed during this term.
In doing so, we are not only fooling ourselves, but our citizens as well.
Nevertheless, even though her work was remarkable, I voted in favour of the amendment to reject this directive and of the amendments that I co-signed, together with those tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, because the text at second reading does not go as far as the one at first reading.
Furthermore, certain services, such as services of general interest, have not been removed from the framework of this directive, and this could lead to wayward paths being taken.
