Formal sitting - Costa Rica Bienvenido al Parlamento Europeo, Presidente Arias!
Your visit is a milestone in relations between the European Parliament, the European Union, Costa Rica and Latin America.
Dr Óscar Arias, you have been President of Costa Rica already, from 1986 to 1990, and in 2006 you were re-elected for a four-year term.
You are best known as a winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, which was awarded to you in 1987 to acknowledge the enormous efforts you have made in the quest for paths to peace in Central America.
President Arias's efforts in his role as an international broker came to fruition in the Esquipulas Peace Agreement, which was signed by the presidents of all Central American countries on 7 August 1987.
President Arias, you have been committed to this for many years and the citizens of Costa Rica honoured the results of that work by re-electing you two years ago.
President Aria, let me say, in conclusion, that we believe that you and your country will continue to play a crucial role in bringing these negotiations to a successful conclusion.
I greet you on behalf of the Republic of Costa Rica.
This very day, 225 years ago, the US War of Independence came to an end with the signing of the Treaty of Paris, the first wave of the independence movement across practically the whole of the American continent.
Also 69 years ago today, the Second World War began, with the declaration of war on Germany by France and the United Kingdom, and the emergence of the Allies, which included a large part of America.
We have not come here to establish relations between our two continents, but to recognise that these relations have existed for a long time, and that any attempt to improve them should start with an attempt to understand them as a whole.
We cannot enter a new phase of international cooperation while carrying the burdens of the past, particularly the burden of a military expenditure that is in itself truly offensive to the nearly 200 million Latin American people who are languishing in poverty.
The money that is spent on a single Sukhoi Su-30k aeroplane could buy around 200 000 MIT Media Lab XO laptops for our students.
The money spent on a single Black Hawk helicopter could pay a grant of 100 dollars per month to 5 000 Latin American young people.
I believe it is time to leave the pendulum set at union, to take the path once again that the winds took 180 million years ago, before the first crack appeared on earth, when Europe was joined to America, and it would have been possible to walk from Paris to New York.
Your words expressed that you and your country represent democracy and freedom; you work against violence, against terror, against dictatorship.
Anyone who has heard your speech knows that President Arias and Costa Rica stand for freedom and democracy.
However, you did not retire after that; 21 years have passed, and now you are advocating peace between people and peace with nature.
