European Judicial Network - Strengthening of Eurojust and amendment of Decision 2002/187/JHA - Application of the principle of mutual recognition to judgments in criminal matters (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: by Mrs Kaufmann, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the European Judicial Network (05620/2008 - C6-0074/2008 -; by Mrs Weber, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the strengthening of Eurojust and amendment of Decision 2002/187/JHA (05613/2008 - C6-0076/2008 -; by Mr França, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to judgments in criminal matters (05598/2008 - C6-0075/2008 -.
Three texts are on the agenda, as recalled by your President: the decision on the European Judicial Network, the decision on Eurojust and the framework decision on the enforcement of decisions rendered in absentia.
These three texts will improve judicial cooperation within the European Union and will also alter the way in which the Member States work.
The work of the JHA Council on 25 July has allowed a political agreement to be reached on the draft decisions on the European Judicial Network and the strengthening of Eurojust.
These two draft decisions will give greater protection to Europe's citizens and strengthen judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
As regards the European Judicial Network, the draft decision which should replace the 1998 Joint Action clarifies the obligations of Eurojust and the Network.
The creation of secure methods of communication between Eurojust and the European Judicial Network will ensure effective judicial cooperation and greater mutual trust.
This report further underlines the need to retain this flexibility and decentralised structure.
This assessment of the operation of the European Judicial Network goes hand-in-hand with the strengthening of Eurojust.
The text on which overall political agreement was reached on 25 July is a vital stage in the construction of the European judicial area.
Eurojust must also become a leading unit in European judicial cooperation.
Some of your concerns have also been taken into account.
As regards the application of the principle of mutual recognition, which is also one of the pivotal aspects in the construction of an area of justice, freedom and security, the framework decision on the enforcement of decisions rendered in absentia will allow existing instruments, such as the European arrest warrant, to be reinforced.
It is vital that a decision rendered in a person's absence by a Member State can be enforced throughout the European Union.
The Council shares these concerns and the draft proposal therefore relaunches the joint debate on strengthening fundamental guarantees within the European Union.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) As you have just said, Mrs Dati, we are at a critical point in the formation of this European judicial area which we want with all our hearts and to which the European Parliament is making a vital contribution.
As regards Eurojust and the European Judicial Network, the Member States, taking inspiration from our communication of October 2007 on the subject, have clearly shown their desire for convergence.
Many of the amendments proposed in the extremely useful reports of Mrs Kaufmann and Mrs Weber have already been taken on board during the Council discussions.
Accordingly, Amendment 32 to the Eurojust decision, appearing in Mrs Weber's report, aims to improve the level of data protection in third countries cooperating with Eurojust.
I will cite another example: Amendment 38 to the 'European Judicial Network' decision, as set out in Mrs Kaufmann's report.
As regards the França report on the enforcement of decisions rendered in absentia, I note that most of the amendments, at least in their spirit, if not also in their wording, are already included in the text adopted by the JHA Council on 5 and 6 June.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, I should like to make use of my full allocation of speaking time now, if I may.
The European Judicial Network - or EJN for short - has been in existence for 10 years and has proved its worth in practice.
Even after the launch of Eurojust in 2002, the EJN remains relevant.
Personal data are exchanged between authorities in the Member States, and this can include sensitive data such as fingerprints under a European arrest warrant.
However, given that the aim is to ensure that, as far as possible, all contacts between the competent authorities take place on a direct basis, a second step envisages integrating all the relevant authorities responsible for legal assistance in their respective Member State into the secure telecommunications network.
Regrettably, the Council has yet to adopt such a framework decision as lex generalis, so basic data protection provisions have been included directly in the legal text itself.
In order to improve cooperation between the EJN and Eurojust and achieve better coordination of their activities, members of Eurojust should be able to attend EJN meetings by invitation and vice versa.
We as a Parliament understand and agree with the fact that Eurojust must work 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
It also voted in favour of strengthening relations with Europol and the European judicial network, and of creating links with other European and international agencies, such as Frontex, Interpol and the World Customs Organisation.
rapporteur. - (PT) Madam President, Madam Dati, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the process of European construction initially involved the communitisation of the economic area.
One of the areas that causes us all complex and difficult problems within the European Union, now enlarged to 27 Member States and occupied by nearly 500 million people, is justice.
They will also increase the effectiveness of the principle of mutual recognition, particularly in terms of the European arrest warrant and surrender procedures between Member States, and also the application of the principle of mutual recognition to financial penalties, confiscation orders and judgments in criminal matters imposing custodial sentences and other measures involving deprivation of freedom for the purpose of their enforcement in the European Union.
Various amendments were proposed by myself or by other colleagues, resulting in numerous compromise amendments and a firm consensus between Members of the PSE, PPE, ALDE, Verts/ALE and UEN Groups, such that there were only two votes against this report.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this report therefore contains amendments to the proposal for a Council framework decision which, in our opinion, technically enrich this and make it politically robust, particularly with regard to the procedures for summoning defendants and the guarantee of their rights of defence, the possibility of the defendant being represented in his absence and being represented by a legal counsellor appointed and paid by the State and also the possibility of a retrial or appropriate appeal, in accordance with national laws, to be instigated by the defendant already judged in absentia.
Finally, my congratulations to all the rapporteurs in their work to simplify a complex set of legal processes and proposals that I believe will give substance to the European arrest warrant.
on behalf of the PPE-DE group. - (RO) Thus, cross-border crimes have increased and the judicial system must adjust to the new situation.
Thus, I have noticed the need to harmonize legislation between the Member States and, in particular, during this period, the need for rapid and efficient information of the relevant authorities of Member States.
I should particularly like to thank the two rapporteurs whom I shadowed, Mrs Kaufmann and Mrs Weber, for their very good cooperation, as this was a prerequisite for being able to produce such good work.
Good work is essential in this area and I am also very pleased that, when it comes to the European Judicial Network (EJN), the outcome achieved enables us to take forward the work that has already been done.
I am particularly gratified, in this context, that we are finally establishing the cooperation between the EJN and Eurojust on a formal basis and ensuring links which can only be productive and which we can only welcome.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Madam President, I know that I could never be accused of being a Tory, but I too voted against the European arrest warrant.
I should very much like to hear from Minister Dati whether she also considers that proposal to be so crucial to our European cooperation, on what points it is still sticking in the Council and whether there is a possibility, in this energetic French Presidency, to make any headway with this issue of the rights of defendants.
As shadow rapporteur for the proposal on Eurojust, I must say that I am pleased with the strengthening of this body.
In recent years, the activity of the European Judicial Network and Eurojust has proved extremely important and useful in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
The adoption of the Council's decision regarding the European Judicial Network, as well as of the decision on the strengthening of Eurojust, is necessary for the two structures to become increasingly prompt, taking into consideration that the mobility of people and cross-border crimes have increased significantly in recent years.
The creation of a contact point as national correspondent for coordinating the activity of the European Judicial Network, as well as the creation of a Eurojust national co-ordination system, is important for permanent mutual information, as well as for guiding the national authorities either toward the Judicial Network or toward Eurojust, according to the specific cases handled.
This report also exposed differences between the Anglo-Saxon and Continental penal systems.
This principle is enshrined in the well-known document I have here - Magna Carta of 1215 - which has guaranteed this right in my country for 800 years.
The question raised by these texts, as by all the progress made in this area in the last 20 years, is very simple: in the European Union, as stated by my colleague Jean-Paul Gauzès, do we first of all take into account the interests of the people, in particular honest people, or do we first of all take into account the interests of the States and the mechanisms of State?
The Council and these three proposals must therefore be supported.
They also show your commitment to ensuring that effective progress is made in judicial cooperation, particularly in criminal matters, and, as you have pointed out, while respecting fundamental rights.
I should therefore like to thank the European Commission, and Jacques Barrot in particular, for its support of the Presidency.
I also want to thank Renate Weber for her report and for the important contribution that she has made.
Mrs Gebhardt, there is a vital need for cooperation between all political and legal players because the challenge facing judicial cooperation in criminal matters in Europe is to learn to work together in order to effectively combat all forms of crime.
We must build a Europe that protects its citizens within such a judicial area.
I must also say to Mrs Weber that, in order to ensure the success of these texts, trust between Member States and in the EU agencies is clearly very important.
I must also say to Mrs Gebhardt, although I believe Mrs Dati has already responded on this subject, that we are talking about serious crime in new forms that perhaps do not correspond to the overly strict definition of organised crime.
Serious crime must also form one aspect of this judicial cooperation that we truly want.
I do not have much else to add, apart from reiterating what Jacques Toubon said, namely that we must consider the interests of European defendants and the interests of everyone of us and our compatriots in order to ensure that this judicial cooperation proves to be increasingly effective, while of course respecting human rights.
In any event, I too should like to thank Parliament for the quality of its contribution to this important debate which will mark a very positive step in the development of this European judicial area.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I should like to say a few words in my capacity as a shadow rapporteur on the other two reports and to thank Mrs Kaufmann for the way we worked together, and Mr França for his work.
There were 57 compromise amendments in his report, which says something about the level of work we put in.
Unfortunately, the proposal in this report is not about harmonising current legislation in the 27 Member States.
Although we should aim at having a European legislation in the future, for the time being we have done our best, at least by ensuring that even in the appeal the defendant enjoys the procedural guarantees as provided for by Articles 5 and 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (IT) The legislative proposal on decisions rendered in absentia must be adopted in order to overcome serious differences in treatment and the huge amount of discretion granted to executing authorities in the 27 EU Member States.
The European Parliament voted in favour of the proposal for mutual recognition by the legal authorities of the EU Member States of penal sentences in absentia, that is, sentences that have been pronounced in another Member State in the absence of the accused party.
It is now becoming clear that harmonising the Member States' penal systems and the so-called 'communitarisation' of criminal law being promoted by the EU are leading to the infringement of fundamental sovereign rights and of the rights of Member States to determine their own guarantees of protection in critical areas such as criminal proceedings.
