Explanations of vote in writing. - (DE) Kiev is by no means as far along the 'road to Brussels' as some may believe.
I, therefore, support this Council Decision determining the date on which the Convention of the 26 of July 1995 on the use of computer systems in the field of customs, and respective protocols, should enter into force in Bulgaria and Romania.
I am voting in favour of Mrs Grabowski's report on the Accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the Europol Convention of 26 July 1995.
According to the act on the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union, these states are able to join conventions made by the Member States on the basis of Article 34 of the Treaty on European Union according to a simplified procedure.
The Council should also take into account the new deadlines for the effectiveness of the three protocols, dated 30 November 2000, 28 November 2002 and 27 November 2003.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, Mr Stubb, on the special report of the European Court of Auditors concerning translation expenditure incurred by the Commission, Parliament and the Council.
in writing. - (DE) The Court of Auditors' criticism of the 25% rise in the cost of translation, which cannot be explained solely by the increase in the number of official languages from 11 to 21, should be examined in detail.
We also need a strategy for the ongoing pre-accession negotiations, because if Macedonia alone has six official languages, we will soon have our own Tower of Babel.
At the same time, however, we should exercise caution where costs are concerned because, if not, we run the risk of losing the social support for the multilingualism of our institution.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my fellow Member, Mrs Wallis, on the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (ROME II).
in writing. - (FR) I am very pleased about the adoption of the compromise negotiated with the Council concerning the second programme of Community action in the field of health 2007-2013.
I recently paid a visit to the Dingens company in the Belgian town of Leopoldsburg, where, for decades, they have proved that mercury barometers can be produced in a sustainable and ecologically responsible manner.
Also, since the producers of traditional barometers have become skilled in maintaining these devices in a sustainable manner, mercury from barometers no longer ends up in the waste cycle.
UK barometer-making, like that in other Member States, is a traditional industry dating back several centuries.
Unfortunately, this House has pursued this position today with regard to the vote on the Sornosa Martínez report to absurd levels, something which I deeply regret.
By holding firm to a total ban on the production of traditional barometers, the Commission, backed up today by a majority of this House, has sounded the death knell for a sector that stands for 360 years of European tradition.
The fact that all barometer manufacturers in the European Union only account for a few tenths of percentages of the annual mercury consumption, mercury which, by the way, is recycled 100%, makes the matter only worse.
As a consequence of this, we have voted against unduly detailed regulations in today's vote. (CS) Commissioner, I supported the more flexible authorisation of food additives.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by my Swedish fellow Member, Mrs Westlund, on food additives.
While it is normal to simplify the European Commission's task by agreeing that decisions on authorisation of food additives should come under the comitology procedure, the Commission must, for its part, take account of the comments that Parliament has been making non-stop for years now in the new regulation on food additives, and in the new regulation establishing a common food authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by my esteemed Irish colleague, Mrs Doyle, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on food enzymes and amending a number of existing texts.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by my Slovenian fellow Member, Mrs Drčar Murko, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties for use in and on foods and amending a number of existing texts.
The ECON Committee voted for a 4,5% increase in minimum rates.
Accordingly, for public health reasons, some Member States, including the Scandinavian countries, apply rates that are much higher than the minimum rates.
The Commission should also ask itself whether the centralised compilation of critical infrastructure will not serve the terrorists and thereby increase the risk.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by my Dutch fellow Member, Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert, on the proposal for a Council directive on critical infrastructure.
Internet development and the liberalisation of certain markets (electricity, gas, telecommunications, rail freight, etc.) must lead us to be more vigilant regarding our critical infrastructure, which is becoming more and more interconnected throughout Europe and of which the interruption, whether on a permanent or temporary basis, or destruction could have serious repercussions for health, security and the economic and social well-being of Europeans and for the proper functioning of the Member States' governments.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting for the report on the identification and designation of European Critical Infrastructure and the assessment of the need to improve their protection.
The report fully accepts the philosophy of the proposal for a directive, which designates as European Critical Infrastructure any important public or private infrastructure which affects several Member States of the EU and obliges them to submit a list of this infrastructure to the European Commission, which then prepares the single list for the entire EU, so that it can supervise and control their security from 'terrorist action'.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against the Vidal-Quadras report on the prospects for the internal gas and electricity market which prepares for the presentation next September by the Commission of a third 'liberalisation' package.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against liberalisation of the gas and electricity sectors because I do not consider that transmission ownership unbundling is the most effective way of stimulating investment in these infrastructures.
The fact is that the electricity market and the gas market require significant investment.
Sinn Féin rejected the Vidal-Quadras report on the internal gas and electricity market because of its emphasis on privatisation and "unbundling".
