As many of you know, John Bowis was taken ill recently in Brussels and was hospitalised.
It is very difficult because this dossier is very complicated and very sensitive, and it is a dossier on which, personally, I have done very little work.
I am sure he would also wish me to thank the Commissioner personally for her support, to thank the shadow rapporteurs and to thank our group secretariat, and indeed his own research assistant, for the huge efforts they have all made to secure broad agreement on so many of the controversial issues.
With their help, John has sought to shed light on what has been a very murky area, and to bring clarity where uncertainty prevailed before, based consistently on the twin principles that the patient must always come first and that patient choice should be determined by needs and not by means.
For the last 10 years, European citizens have been going to the courts to fight for their right to go to another Member State for treatment.
They should not have to go to court in order to achieve it.
This report does not tell Member States how they should organise their own health systems.
In fact, it builds in safeguards for Member States to help protect their own national health systems, for example by choosing a system of prior authorisation in certain circumstances.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I feel very honoured to be able to join you here today and to participate in discussions on a number of important topics relating to public health which are on today's agenda.
These include the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, ensuring patient safety and joint EU action on rare diseases.
I would like to start by saying that all three issues are among the priorities of the Czech Presidency and they will also be on the agenda of the Council for Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Protection on 7 June 2009 in Luxembourg.
The Czech Presidency is fully aware of the important role played by the European Parliament in the legislative process in the area of public health, and it understands that close cooperation between the Council and Parliament is essential.
Your reports on these three topics have therefore come at the right time.
I would now like to say a few words from the perspective of the Council concerning the proposed directive of the European Parliament and the Council on applying patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
We find these principles in John Bowis's report on the proposed directive which you will be debating.
It is also possible to identify other topics that the European Parliament and the Council have in common: the importance of providing full and correct information to patients about options for receiving cross-border healthcare or the emphasis on ensuring high quality and safety in the provision of care.
I would therefore like to thank everyone who took part in creating it and the rapporteur John Bowis, to whom we all wish a speedy recovery, of course.
The Council will review the text of the report in detail, as well as all of the amendment proposals, and will carefully consider incorporating them into the common position of the Council in order to support a second-reading agreement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned earlier it is still too soon to say whether the June EPSCO Council will produce a political agreement on the proposed directive, as discussions based on the compromise proposal submitted by the Czech Presidency have not yet ended.
In any case, the Council will discuss this topic further, taking into account the report approved by the European Parliament.
The central question in this context is: what can the European Union do for patients?
Allow me to recall briefly the rationale behind this proposed directive, as well as its main objectives and principles.
Therefore, the need for a legislative framework became apparent, so that all patients in Europe can exercise their right to reimbursement of cross-border health care.
This right should not only be for patients who have access to information that is not publicly available and who can afford a lawyer.
Therefore, after in-depth reflection and broad consultation, the Commission adopted, on 2 July last year, its proposal for a directive.
I know many fears have been expressed, but this legislation will not impose changes in the organisation and financing of national health systems.
It represents an opportunity for patients to choose suitable treatment and fast access to services; an opportunity for regional health care systems to improve the quality and efficiency of their health service; an opportunity for greater European integration in the personal care services sector.
The directive provides a measured response to these requirements.
It is about rejecting the idea that the Court of Justice makes European law instead of the politicians.
As for the market approach, the spirit of this report can already be found in summary in its legal basis, in other words Article 95 governing the rules of the internal market.
In the same spirit, Amendment 67 amounts to introducing competition between the national public health systems, as each person would be free, providing they pay, of course, to join the system of their choice in the EU.
For all these reasons, and because I have few illusions about the outcome of today's vote, given the wonderful unanimity... (The President cut off the speaker) rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - Mr President, on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee we wanted to welcome this proposal and to underscore what it brings in terms of legal certainty, which is to be applauded, and also in terms of emphasising patient choice.
But also we felt, as a committee - and I think this is important, given the concerns that have been expressed this morning - that it does respect subsidiarity and it does, therefore, respect the integrity of national health systems.
We feel that the applicable law regime and the jurisdiction rules that are set out are not clear enough: it could have been more patient-oriented to make sure, as we have done in other areas, that patients could bring claims in their country of residence and could receive compensation according to the law of their country of residence.
The report directly relates to patients' rights and European lawmakers here must ensure that equality is applied consistently to the provision of healthcare for women and men.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, since 1998 the European Court of Justice has determined that patients have the right to be reimbursed for health care received in another Member State.
I welcome John Bowis's excellent report and his skilful resolution of the many legitimate concerns that were with the original draft proposal.
The report is based on patients' needs and not patients' means.
Quality standards will remain a Member State competence, while safety standards a European-wide one.
While health services were initially included in the draft proposal of the Bolkestein cross-border services proposal, it quickly became apparent that a stand-alone directive on this most important issue of health - which has ramifications for all aspects of health care in our 27 Member States - was needed.
However, when circumstances dictate, it can be beneficial to receive health care in another EU country - notably in border regions, whereby the nearest health facility, for example, may be in another country, or where there is more expertise available, for example in the case of rare diseases, or a particular care or treatment could possibly be provided faster in another country.
I must fully acknowledge that the general competence in health policy and financing of health policy remains, and will continue to remain, at Member State level.
I will, however, be supporting the rest of the amendment and the excellent work done by my colleague Professor Antonios Trakatellis on rare diseases.
Allow me to start by saying that my group thinks this is a very good report.
We have managed to ensure that all patients will now know that they have rights in the European Union just like everyone else does.
We also think, however, that the Member States should retain the competence for their healthcare systems.
The fact that we are able to improve this situation through the advent of reference networks is a great achievement.
The first of these is that we want to see a dual legal basis.
We need to use the health article, Article 152, in order to ensure that the message that we are sending out to the world is that this is an issue of health policy as well as of freedom of movement.
If we are unable to obtain an improvement in this through the amendments that have been tabled, my group will not, unfortunately, be able to bring itself to vote through this report, which is something that I personally regret, although perhaps this will act as a spur to do better at second reading if we do not make enough ground today.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) This directive is about patients.
I cannot emphasise that enough, since we have, of course, been talking about a great many other things in the context of cross-border healthcare: the free movement of medical services and what to do regarding the market in healthcare.
Patients are in such a weak position.
That is why this is also a social directive.
It is also for these reasons that our group attaches importance to prior authorisation, which is naturally a crucial element here, Mrs Filipiová.
Prior authorisation is to be in place not in order to make cross-border care impossible - absolutely not - but, rather, in order to avoid seriously undermining the national systems.
We would like to set down the definition of hospital care on a European level and not separately for each Member State, quite simply in order to give legal certainty to patients and to ensure certainty within the national systems.
It is an issue that concerns a huge number of citizens: a recent Eurobarometer survey showed that today 50% of European citizens are prepared to travel to receive treatment abroad, in the hope of finding better, faster treatment for their illness, and 74% of citizens feel that when they go abroad for treatment, this should be reimbursed by their own Member State.
Indeed, today only 4% of European citizens are treated abroad.
The European Union has uniform regulations only in cases of emergency healthcare treatment received abroad on the basis of the regulation on the European health insurance card.
Mr President, the directive we are dealing with today must above all be seen as a complement to the cooperation that has been in existence for three decades between the Member States and their social security systems.
Today, in my country, Luxembourg, more than 30% of healthcare is already provided outside its borders and, moreover, the case of Mr Bowis, to whom I wish a full recovery, is a perfect example of the correct use of the existing regulation, as he was admitted to hospital in Brussels as an emergency case.
It must firstly improve the information given to citizens: information on the services offered, information on the centres of excellence which Mrs Roth-Behrendt has explained so well and, above all, information on the quality of care.
It must be very clear that the system is organised, above all by the Member States.
Thus we do not want a Bolkenstein II, we want a text that gives legal certainty and that serves the majority of Europe's citizens.
The proposal also deals unevenly with a matter that falls within the competence of the Member States, the result of which is that people with a fat wallet have access to better care.
The proposal also holds a great risk that soon it will not be the patient who has the right to seek treatment abroad, but rather insurers or Member States who will be able to compel patients to go to the cheapest provider.
Given that we have 27 countries with 27 different health care systems, the Commission's proposal, based solely on Article 95 - the famous harmonisation article - will lead to the dismantling of the national healthcare systems and thus remove the responsibilities from the Member States.
We favour taking equal access by the patient as the starting point, and not giving the market a greater role in health care.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (DA) Mr President, one consequence which the Patient Directive in its current form might have for the healthcare sector is to make it very difficult to control public spending.
Unfortunately, this directive illustrates a very clear trend, one whereby we are all being transformed from citizens into consumers.
However, being a citizen means being a human being and we are all citizens, just as surely as we are all human.
However, for me it is vital that this directive get the balance right between freedom of movement versus patient safety and accountability.
However, we also need to recognise that this is not always possible, especially in the case of rare diseases, where treatment may not be available in the patient's Member State of affiliation.
Information about quality and standards of care in other Member States is another important factor for those of us who may need to travel abroad for treatment.
We have worked hard to ensure that this information will be available to patients should we have to or wish to travel for treatment.
The national contact points proposed in this document are thus one of the key innovations and will play a huge role in helping and facilitating patient mobility.
I welcome this report and I hope it will get through today. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Roth-Behrendt did an excellent job of explaining our group's position and, in particular, outlined perfectly why we very much appreciate how much ground has been covered in improving this text.
She also made it clear, however, how important it is to go the last mile, namely a dual legal basis and a clearer and stronger rightful possibility for Member States to have prior authorisation with regard to hospital treatment.
I therefore call on you to give serious thought to Amendments 116 and 125 on the dual legal basis and Amendments 156 and 118 on prior authorisation.
This man is at the heart of patient mobility, because everyone should be able to travel abroad and receive treatment, if they so wish, regardless of their pay packet or savings.
It is only those who are desperate who travel abroad.
It is now in the court of the ministers who constantly tell us that we must get more in touch with EU citizens.
Patients have the right to know the basis on which they will be given medical help, irrespective of whether they are travelling and unexpectedly need help, or whether because of difficulties in getting access to specific medical services in their own country they decide to travel to healthcare facilities in another European Union country.
They should also be guaranteed access to reliable information about the quality of the services available in recommended healthcare facilities.
We would vastly prefer a separate piece of legislation in this area so that we are able to help people with rare diseases in the optimal way possible. (EL) Mr President, I too should like to wish our friend John Bowis a speedy recovery and all the best and, at the same time, to thank him for his hard work.
On the contrary, we recognise that the Member States need to make use of the powers granted to them under Article 152 of the Treaty on European Union.
Unfortunately, this directive is based on Article 95 and I am waiting for the Commissioner to clarify the legal basis to us.
Our objective must be to provide equal healthcare, without intervention on the part of the European Union in social security systems and without aiming to commercialise the health sector. (PL) Mr President, the regulation of the opportunities for receiving treatment in other Member States of the European Union, which will come into force following adoption of the directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, will result in Community intervention in healthcare systems, in contravention of previous provisions.
In addition, opportunities for treatment will be created, especially for wealthy patients, and at the same time access to healthcare will be obstructed, especially for patients in poor Member States.
Irrespective of the opinion of the Court of Justice, human health should not be a marketable commodity, but an inalienable right which must be guaranteed by state health services in accordance with the principle of respect and protection of the right to life and health, and the inalienable worth of every human being. (DE) Mr President, pension claims, unemployment insurance and sickness insurance - nearly 25 years after the advent of the Schengen Agreement, social provision is still limping along behind it.
To that end, patient rights must, of course, be strengthened.
It may have a beneficial impact not only on the host country's cultural offering, but on its restaurant trade too.
I wish Mr Bowis a speedy recovery.
That is precisely why this directive is good news, above all for people in border regions, for patients on long waiting lists, for people with conditions for which better treatments are available abroad.
Yet the right of these patients to be treated abroad should not threaten the possibility for Member States to properly organise and finance their own healthcare provision, since that is necessary to guarantee healthcare for everyone.
On this point, the report is perfectly in order.
Thirdly, the reimbursement of ambulatory care must be simplified, but in the case of hospital and specialised care, Member States must obtain prior authorisation since that care is expensive.
A country that wishes to guarantee healthcare for all must be able to plan for care in this way.
On this point, Mr Bushill-Matthews, the report falls short: it still sets too many conditions for prior approval, making it difficult for Member States.
I wish to lend my support to those of my colleagues who have made clear that this is truly a crucial point for my group if it is to be able to approve this directive.
Finally, I would like to speak up in favour of a dual legal basis, for healthcare is indeed a public responsibility of the Member States towards their populations, and thus cannot be simply left to the free market.
That is why I am delighted that the rapporteur has accepted my amendment to make it clear that Member States have a responsibility to authorise and pay for treatment in another country.
That, again, is why I am pleased that the rapporteur supported my amendments on the regulation of health professionals.
Finally, I would like to wish John Bowis a speedy recovery.
This week, we actually updated the regulation that is the part of our system that already ensures cooperation and already ensures that, if there is an urgent need, health care cannot be refused in another Member State.
It is based on Article 95 of the Treaty, which guarantees market freedom and hence does not relate to public health or to patients.
The right to good healthcare in all Member States should be a high priority, but instead the Commission's starting point is a market in which healthcare is treated like any other commodity.
This directive gives priority to those citizens who can pay large sums of money for travel and accommodation and those who have a good knowledge of, and contacts within, the health care bureaucracy.
If the directive is based on Article 95, which relates to the market, it will be the market and not good healthcare that is the governing factor. (NL) Over the past few months, hard work has gone into this report on patients' rights in cross-border healthcare.
I find the legal basis a very difficult point.
I consider it unfortunate that Article 95 has been chosen for this purpose.
In my view, this goes against subsidiarity in this area of policy and makes it difficult for Member States to make independent choices without the Court of Justice intervening. (FR) Mr President, on 2 July 2008, the Commission presented a draft directive on the application of patients' rights in cases of cross-border care, in an effort to overcome the existing barriers.
This issue is a priority for all Member States.
However, not all have the resources to guarantee a given level of quality and safety to patients, whether at the care level or even at the level of the professional quality of practitioners.
It therefore seems necessary to specify the responsibilities of the Member States in this area.
However, with this draft document, we have broken down that barrier, and we have done it because of the need to look after patients.
This is a great achievement indeed, given that, without going into considerations of the legal base, this directive recognises the unquestionable rights of patients and opens up a new range of possibilities for them to access better treatment.
For this reason, we have introduced an amendment to be included in the proposal, which insists that patients who travel from other Member States must comply with the rules and regulations of the Member State where treatment is taking place, especially with regard to the choice of doctor or hospital.
We do not therefore understand why the Commission has not included Article 152 of the EC Treaty.
His case proves that cross-border services are already functioning without this directive. . - (ET) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, lawyers have a saying that where there are two lawyers, there will be three opinions.
I do not wish to cast doubt upon European Court decisions, but I cannot agree that lawyers have until now decided over the policy on patient mobility.
It is our duty as elected representatives of our people to create legal and political security in this very important area.
The directive under discussion will not abolish inequality in Member States' health care upon passage, but it is a big step towards fairness and equal rights of patients.
The right to health should form the legal basis.
Health authorities, like those in my own country, Ireland, will again be able to deny authorisation to travel for treatment under this directive, just as they do under the current E112 that we set out to improve. (NL) Mr President, first of all, my very best wishes to Mr Bowis.
For this legislation we have to thank the very brave citizens of the European Union who turned to the Court of Justice in order to obtain good treatment and care in another Member State when their own country let them down.
Today, we are setting down in law what the Court of Justice decided, and we are also formulating the specific conditions under which the right to cross-border care can be achieved for the vocal citizen.
I regret what has gone on in this House with regard to this directive over the last few weeks.
This proposal regarding patient mobility thus comes none too soon.
It is regrettable, therefore, that the man who devoted a large part of his career to this matter must now himself be absent for health reasons, and I wholeheartedly join in expressing good wishes for John's speedy recovery.
The establishment of a point of contact in the patient's home country where the latter can turn for all types of information, as well as of an ombudsman for patients, and certainly the increase in scale thanks to better cooperation between the Member States, definitely offer added value to patients, in particular to those who are suffering from a rare disease.
Patients are aware of the treatment possibilities in other countries and wish to make use of services in other countries.
Thirdly - and this is very important - Member States must reserve the right to demand prior authorisation.
There is great inequality between Member States, but that is not something you can solve by sending patients across the border, but precisely by exchanging treatment, and in this regard, too, this directive can make a contribution. - (CS) Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for some years I have been criticising the fact that the European Court of Justice determines the right of patients to the payment of expenditure abroad.
This is in the Treaties but the socialists have been fighting against this right for five years.
However, both patients and doctors throughout the EU need a simple rule for when they must request authorisation.
Therefore I do not support the proposal to create 27 definitions of specialised and costly care for this purpose.
I also believe that the Commission should not designate but only coordinate the border regions as pilot areas where cross-border healthcare projects can be tested.
I would, however, like to draw attention to three important elements in this report.
Therefore the legal basis should be changed.
I am certain that the European open space for healthy citizens must also be open for those citizens who are ill and need help in another Member State. (SV) Mr President, of the decisions that we take in the European Parliament, today's is one of those that I am most proud of.
However, we do not need your prior authorisation in order for people not to have to pay out money themselves.
You are now doing the same thing again.
That is something that I think everyone in this House should do if you want to go to bed with a good conscience tonight. (SV) Mr President, all patients should have the right to healthcare when they need it.
We Social Democrats believe that it is important for people to be able to seek healthcare abroad, for example when waiting lists are too long in their home country.
This is also why it was the Social Democratic government in Sweden that took the initiative for a directive in this area.
Nevertheless, the Swedish centre-right Members here in Parliament have uncritically praised the Commission's proposal.
We, on the other hand, have come up with proposals and have worked hard to make it easier for people without fat purses to be able to travel abroad to receive care.
I would therefore urge all Members to support our amendment to Article 8(3).
The report we are debating today raises questions of patient mobility, especially for the purpose of seeing and treating patients in specialised health centres.
This week, however, there are two plenary reports where the public can genuinely resonate with their content.
The first is the cap on roaming charges in the Telecoms Package, and the second is patients' rights for elective medical treatment in other EU countries.
I, too, would like to support my London colleague John Bowis's report.
A more flexible EU market, with reasonable authorisation safeguards in health care, is a win-win situation both for the general public and also for the national health budgets of the Member States. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with an important directive to secure substantially the right to mobility for European patients, the right to healthcare in the countries of the European Union.
Patients' right to mobility cannot be a pretext for certain Member States to avoid investing in national health services, essentially driving citizens to health tourism and not choice.
I can now say with certainty that this legislation is good for both patients and health-care systems across all Member States, and it deserves our full and unanimous support.
In calling for this proposal to be adopted on the basis of Article 95 of the EC Treaty, which provides for harmonisation in the internal market, they are actually trying to liberalise the sector, which is unacceptable.
For me, that kind of guarantee is absolutely crucial.
The heated debate preceding this directive is astonishing.
There is, of course, a strong case for better coordination of our health services across the European Union and in particular in border areas, but this directive cannot seek to do that.
Its purpose should be to ensure that a citizen's right to health care in another Member State is carefully framed, so that each Member State's capacity to fund and organise its domestic services is not undermined by health tourism.
Prior authorisation and a due legal base are essential and, unless these are incorporated, I cannot support this directive.
I am delighted that the JURI Committee has welcomed the proposal to increase legal certainty.
It is also clear that in view of the many amendment proposals the Council will require some time to review it all.
There is a need to find the right balance between the various views and proposals, but I believe we will manage it in the end through mutual cooperation.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, as we have seen once again today, Parliament's debates on this matter are both rich and passionate.
On the question of assumption of the costs of treatment abroad, clear concerns have been expressed about the inability of a significant number of patients to afford cross-border health care.
The proposed directive did not seek to prevent this, but is careful to respect Member States' responsibilities in organising health care.
However, the two objectives are not incompatible.
It would be up to the Member States to reconcile them as far as possible to the benefit of the patients, in particular those with modest revenues.
This means that its budgetary impact will also be limited.
Some of you are calling for national lists to be drawn up independently, and most Member States are calling for that as well.
A definition based on national lists would actually lead to discrepancies as to what constitutes hospital care in each Member State, with a considerable risk of eroding patients' rights.
Some of you have said that, if we adopt this proposed directive, only a few patients would profit from it, and that they would be the very few informed patients.
I understand the concerns raised regarding the difficulty of getting clear information on health professionals when seeking health care abroad.
Reference was made to Amendment 67 on relaxation of the rule for affiliations to social security systems.
Regarding the legal basis for the proposed directive, many of you would like to add Article 152 to Article 95.
Clearly, if the content of the final text justifies it, the addition of Article 152 to Article 95 could certainly be considered.
Therefore, it would be simply disproportionate to give carte blanche to Member States to take measures to refuse patients in order to control inflows.
Member States have to ensure that patients from other Member States are not discriminated against.
Therefore, in order to bring the benefits of European cooperation to patients with rare diseases, they really need to be included in this directive on patients' rights in cross-border health care.
Transplantation is a medical procedure and it is difficult to justify why patients should not have the right to benefit from it as cross-border health care, as ruled by the Court.
I have therefore asked experts in the Commission to look into this question to see how organ allocation could be dealt with in a different context.
Let me also once again thank Mr Bowis and the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts and hard work and wish him a speedy recovery.
I must also thank all colleagues across the House for their warm tributes to John Bowis, both professionally for his work, and personally, through their good wishes for his speedy recovery, which I shall be delighted to pass on.
I sincerely hope that, as a result of those comments, the overall report will receive widespread positive support across and within political groups, because making patient needs a priority should surely be above party politics.
I recognise that any agreement today will come too late for a formal first-reading agreement during the Czech Presidency, but I understand that there is already substantial political agreement within the Council in principle, thanks to the work the Presidency has already done, and I wish to thank it for that.
This report will not only bring real benefits to real people across the EU but will show that by working together at EU level people can benefit individually wherever they may live and irrespective of their means.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
This report marks an important step forward in terms of improving patient mobility within the EU.
To be able to respond effectively to patients' needs, we also require some rules which will allow medical staff to be mobile, while maintaining at the same time a balance at national health care system level so that no state will end up with a shortage of medical staff.
in writing. - The proposal for a cross border health-care system must be first and foremost a system which respects patients' rights, which is based on public health as well as internal market principles and which does not discriminate against patients based on ability to pay for medical treatment.
From my own perspective, I believe that the National Health Service in the UK must have the right to insist on the prior authorisation by patients wishing to benefit from medical treatment abroad.
UK patients that cannot afford to travel abroad for medical treatment must not be discriminated against by those who can afford the up-front medical costs but who plan to reclaim these costs from the NHS on their return to the UK.
The new opportunities which patients in Europe can enjoy are an important step in harmonising healthcare systems in Europe and in ensuring good-quality medical treatment for all European citizens.
The proposal for a directive stipulates the principles common to all healthcare systems: setting up model European networks, providing information points for patients in every Member State and e-health.
This report offers all Member States significant benefits, which includes, by implication, Romania.
Member States must ensure that citizens are familiar with the necessary procedures and eligibility criteria, as well as with the travel costs and medical standards at the treatment centre abroad.
in writing. - Member States have a responsibility to their peoples to plan and deliver health care.
It discriminates against less wealthy people in wealthy countries, and against all but the super-rich in less wealthy countries.
It is a charter for the destruction of public health services in Member States.
The European Commission should hang their heads in shame and should withdraw this proposal immediately.
The proposal for a directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare attempts to create a consistent Community framework for offering certainty to patients in this area where, until now, the guidelines have been laid down by the European Court of Justice.
During the process of transposing into Community legislation judgments made by the European Court of Justice on the right of patients to receive medical assistance in another Member State, the proposal for a directive maintains the necessary balance regarding Member States' responsibilities in this area.
The directive's provisions also aim to facilitate access to medical assistance services by calling for the need to create a direct reimbursement system between the funding body from the country of origin and the host hospital.
Putting all these positives to one side, however, we must not overlook the immense challenges that a better linking up of the national systems involves.
The system of rules for settlement must be laid down precisely and account must be taken of different national circumstances.
in writing. - (FI) In a Member State like Finland, where, for poor people, geography and language are barriers to acquiring health services beyond the country's borders, a directive such as this one might increase the inequality of access to services.
