&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 23 March 2006. &#160;&#160; The Conference of Presidents has asked me to inform the House that the ex-President of Liberia, Mr Charles Taylor, was captured on 29 March and extradited to Sierra Leone to face the Special Court for Sierra Leone.
As you know, Taylor has been accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity.
The following amendments have been proposed: The Socialist Group in the European Parliament proposes that the vote on the report by Mr Őry, scheduled for tomorrow, be moved to Wednesday. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, according to the original version of the order of business, the Őry report was put down for Wednesday, with the vote on it scheduled, accordingly, for the same day.
The Conference of Presidents has now decided – as recently as last Thursday – to bring the report forward to Tuesday, with the consequence that our group has not had the chance to have a final debate on it today, since we assumed, when sending out invitations to our members, that the vote would be on Wednesday and so we could have our final debate on Tuesday.
This is an important debate, and we agreed that it should be held this week, but it has turned out over the last couple of hours that there are still a few issues to be resolved as regards the vote.
The Council has added to the title of the last of the statements that it will make during the afternoon as follows: ‘Measures to enhance road safety (SAFETY) and security measures in the transport sector, including the financing thereof (SECURITY)’. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would ask the services to point out to the President-in-Office of the Council that he should focus on the original definition of security, namely that of fighting terrorism, rather than only addressing the security of transport, since it is to be feared that only the second issue is going to be dealt with. &#160;&#160; The Commission takes good note of what Mr Swoboda has just said, of course.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left proposes that a Commission statement on the situation in South-East Turkey be added as the first item on Thursday's agenda, ending with a vote on a resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, my group has called for a statement from the Commission followed by a debate.
That is why we want a statement and a debate to be included on Thursday’s agenda, and, if possible, as the first agenda item in the morning. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, although we can agree to the motion for a debate following a statement by the Commission, we do not want to frame a resolution right now; instead, we would like this issue, if at all possible, to be one of those addressed in the forthcoming report by Mr Eurlings.
We have decided to begin the sitting at three and to deal with the issue of South-East Turkey, but it is not clear – in my view – whether or not this debate will end with a vote on a resolution. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, after consulting the various groups, and in order to keep in line with them, we have decided that it is better to withdraw the request to submit a resolution.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also proposes that the title of the debate ‘The situation of prisons in Iraq’ be changed to ‘The Assyrian community in Iraq and the situation of prisons in Iraq’. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, according to the original title, we were to have been debating the Assyrian community in Iraq, but then the Conference of Presidents changed the title to ‘the prisoners in Iraq’.
If, therefore, we discuss a change, or a proposal for a change, along the lines of ‘The situation in Iraq: the prisons and the situation of the Assyrian minority’, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe can certainly lend its support to it. &#160;&#160; Mr Poettering’s proposal is specifically ‘The Assyrian community in Iraq and the situation of prisons in Iraq’, the two things. (1) &#160;&#160; The next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
Many speakers are listed and, once again, I must warn you that, unless you all conform strictly to the speaking time of one minute, it will not be possible for everybody who has asked to speak to do so, particularly if there are further requests for the floor during the sitting, as is always the case. &#160;&#160; (Mr President, for several years now the European Parliament has been investigating the Lloyds case relating to the first non-life insurance directive and to the way in which this directive has, or rather has not been properly applied, especially in the last 20 years before the law was duly modified following the opening of an infringement procedure against the United Kingdom in 2001.
As I reminded you in that letter, Parliament’s most recent resolution on the subject – adopted in June 2005 – confirms its impression that there are substantive and reasonable grounds to believe that the first non-life insurance directive and its later, modified versions were not properly transposed and applied in the United Kingdom. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wished to draw the European Parliament’s attention to the serious project undertaken by the French Government, which consists of introducing a ‘first job contract’.
This is undoubtedly a serious threat to France’s social model, but I understood – and some of my fellow Members will speak on this subject – that threats of this kind exist in many countries in which casual work offering little security is the only solution offered to people, particularly young people, when they enter the world of work.
Be that as it may, we can observe a great sense of anxiety among our young Europeans about their future, and it would seem important to me that we reaffirm our desire to fight against what is referred to as atypical work and job insecurity. &#160;&#160; (Mr President, may I draw Members’ attention to the unfair taxation principles currently applied in Poland to Polish nationals working abroad.
The problem applies first and foremost to the several hundred thousand people working in the United Kingdom and to the UK/Poland Double Taxation Agreement signed in 1976.
Both the UK Government and, above all, the Polish Government must ensure that the Agreement is renegotiated as soon as possible in the interests of European Union citizens.
At the same time, the European Parliament should come to the defence of those people, guarding justice and the right of the citizens of the European Union to a decent life. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to raise the question of Zimbabwe.
As we all know, there has unfortunately been no change for the better in that country.
The apportionment of the rights of the population of the European Union on matters for which, of course, no&#160;one thinks of denying the right of non-discrimination often results in misunderstandings and doubts as to whether the self-evident applies to the silent majority as regards every type of right: the right to life and human dignity and to respect for freedom of expression and choice.
The social movement is strengthening, rejecting and making claims.
Unemployment can and must be combated, but not in an unruly manner, not by ignoring the needs of society and certainly not at the expense of a generation which is not to blame for the world it has inherited. &#160;&#160; (Mr President, some Western European printed media have recently taken to describing the Polish Government and its power base as nationalist.
Irrespective of what is promulgated by Western European press, Poland will remain faithful to its traditions and democratic values. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity today to discuss the way in which the Commissioner handles questions from MEPs.
On the very same day, however, Jörg Haider, Governor of Carinthia, instigated proceedings against District Governor August Muri for ‘abusing his public office’ by finally issuing an order for bilingual signs to be posted in Bleiburg/Pliberk.
I would be interested to know how the Commission will act to resolve this glaring example of a breach of the rights of the Slovene minority, at the very time when Austria holds the presidency of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we are shocked by the pictures and the news that have been reaching us since Monday of last week from many Kurdish towns, but mainly from Diyarbakir.
Hundreds of people have been injured, some of them severely, while hundreds have been imprisoned.
I ask the Commission, and you, Mr Borrell, to contact Mr Beydemir, the mayor of Diyarbakir, and I demand that an delegation be assembled and despatched to examine in detail what has happened in the affected areas. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to draw Members’ attention to a set of pan-European scams which target small businesses.
His network amounts to a conspiracy to defraud small businesses in Europe.
I am therefore delighted that Commissioner Kyprianou has agreed to look into this matter and I would urge all colleagues who have examples of these in their constituencies – and there are many of you, I know – to write to him with information so that he can complete his dossier. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, numerous Members have referred on occasion to the time taken by the competent institutional bodies to reply to questions they have tabled.
I am sure that the appropriate authorities within the Council and the Commission will take good note of this request. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as you said just a moment ago, Charles Taylor, who is accused of war crimes, has been brought before the UN War Tribunal in Sierra Leone.
As Chief Observer of the European Union's election observation mission in Liberia, I have urged the newly elected President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf to insist on extradition.
The arrest and bringing before the law of Charles Taylor is a triumph for the new Liberia and for not only the African Union, but certainly also for the EU, both of which have passed this test with flying colours.
I hope that I will be able to communicate something to you about it at the beginning of tomorrow’s sitting. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it was exactly 1&#160;500 days ago that Ingrid Betancourt and her colleague, Clara Rojas, were kidnapped by the FARC in Colombia, thus joining the excessively large group of 3&#160;000 hostages, to say nothing of the thousands of missing persons in that country.
Secondly, to put strong pressure on the FARC, via the organisations that support it overseas and especially in countries that have not included it on their list of terrorist organisations, so that it responds positively to the proposal submitted by the group of the three countries, thereby demonstrating its genuine desire to reach a humanitarian agreement.
This Convention does indeed stipulate that, in the event of an internal conflict, the government is obliged – in line with the commitment it made previously - to conclude humanitarian agreements in order to save as many human lives as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last night was the first anniversary of the death of a great man and a great European, Pope John Paul II.
Alongside the relevant action which will be taken by the individual Member States, is the European Union prepared to demonstrate its support in this difficult time in order to send a message to the farmers in the countries affected that the European Union is by their side because, as we know, solidarity is the leading principle in the European Union? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to express my displeasure with the final declaration of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly that was held on 27 March.
In Turkey, for example, a change of religion must be notified to the government.
It seems that the much-vaunted democratic credentials of this Parliament could be enhanced by such an investigation. &#160;&#160; I fear that we will not have time to carry out that investigation before the next Italian elections, but we can always do so afterwards, if Parliament considers it appropriate, of course. &#160;&#160; Several European Union Member States have recently been hit by severe flooding.
There were over 100 larger floods in Europe between 1998 and 2004.
I ask President Borrell and urge the Council to take steps as soon as possible in order to develop a single European flood defence system. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, last week, in Diyarbakir in Turkey, four people lost their lives and approximately 500 more were injured when incidents broke out at the end of a funeral.
Such a policy is paradoxical and we should remind Turkey, as a candidate country, of what European democratic tradition means. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to raise the case of a company in my constituency.
Hygrade – a subsidiary of the Danish company Tulip – is proposing to close two factories in Chard and Chippenham with the loss of 300 and 500 jobs respectively.
I hope you will raise that point with the Commission.
It supplies its goods and services mainly to the Co-op and Tesco – they are food processing companies.
However, it is only right that the British Government should give categoric assurances that the highest possible safety standards will be met, because this issue is of huge concern to the people of Ireland and to many others. &#160;&#160; Mr Ryan, I understand your concern fully and I am sure that the British Government will be sensitive to the issue that you are raising. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am sorry I was not here earlier: it was Air France’s fault.
The directive on the common regulatory framework for electronic communications should have been fully implemented by 24&#160;July 2003, but Belgium, Greece and Luxembourg have yet to notify the Commission of their implementation.
I believe that you are the guardian of our Rules of Procedure and I would ask that you make sure that the Commission responds to our questions in a timely fashion.
The matter to which I am referring is that of Luxembourg’s cable distributors, who applied to the Commission in March&#160;2005 and were sent from one Commissioner to another Commissioner who, in September&#160;2005, gave them an answer that contradicted the one given in response to my parliamentary question three months too late.
Mr&#160;President, if we want to legislate more effectively, then the Commission’s legal services need to function accordingly, and you need to ensure that our Rules of Procedure are applied in full. &#160;&#160; (A fortnight ago we saw the end of the bizarre Belarus elections, naturally won by Alexander Lukashenko.
Mr President, what was the European Union’s and Parliament’s response to this situation?
The European Parliament and the European Union must take up a very firm and decisive position on Belarus, so that we can finally overthrow the last bloody dictatorship in Europe. &#160;&#160; In Poland there is growing dissatisfaction with the European Union’s agricultural policy.
The feelings of Polish farmers are well illustrated by their protest banners: ‘the Union means bankruptcy for the Polish countryside’.
This has already led to farmers being charged an overproduction penalty, and as from 2010 will result in Poland having to import milk and milk products.
That delays the debates.
In that respect, the EU-Africa Ministerial Conference held on 10 and 11&#160;July in Rabat, reinforced cooperation with the African Union and dialogue with the main countries of origin have been important new political initiatives designed to discuss migration issues in detail and, at the same time, to find durable joint solutions.
The European Refugee Fund allocated to Malta EUR&#160;114&#160;000 in 2004, EUR&#160;500&#160;000 in 2005 and EUR&#160;600&#160;000 in 2006.
The Commission will also shortly be making a proposal for a Council decision to ensure practical cooperation between Member States, as set out in the Communication on Strengthening Practical Cooperation adopted on 17&#160;February.
The immigration situation in Europe is certainly not pleasant, appealing or suitable.
The 2&#160;000 people in Malta could be the equivalent of 400&#160;000 people held in the national prisons of Germany, or even 300&#160;000 people in the national prisons in Italy, France and the United Kingdom.
In order to keep a check on the immigrants, Malta employs 10% of its police force, which would amount to employing 30&#160;000 people if it were Italy or 40&#160;000 people if it were Germany; in other words, all of the law enforcement personnel put together.
At present, Malta is enduring some extremely serious situations: it has 2&#160;000 people that it does not know where to send and that can only be sent to Gozo, and taking that course of action would mean making an already extremely serious situation even worse.
Malta must be a transit country.
I call on you all to support Malta.
As chance would have it, the President of Malta will be here the day after tomorrow, and I am very pleased about that.
However, what we saw in Malta was terrible.
We met people who had been held sometimes for 18, 19 and even 20 months, without any contact with the outside world and in unbearable sanitary conditions.
We therefore resolutely call on the Maltese Government to put an end as quickly as possible to its system of systematically detaining migrants.
A more comprehensive reform is necessary, however, because this is not just an issue of money.
I would also like to add my voice and that of my group to what we have heard from Mr Zappalà and Mrs&#160;Roure about its implications, not just in Malta but in various other places our delegation has visited, including Dublin.
What seemed like an extremely logical system at the time to the majority of Parliament – not to all of us – has real problems that need addressing.
The Commission has said that in the framework of the continuation of the asylum policy one of its aims would be to ensure that all Member States were operating to the highest possible standards and best practice.
Maltese law is abominable: it allows for 18 months of administrative detention for citizens who have committed no crime whatsoever.
I was struck by the sight of a man who had a card on which was written ‘genocide in Darfur and detention in Malta’.
They are legally unacceptable places in which all human rights are being violated. &#160;&#160; – What the Member who spoke before me, Mr&#160;Catania, omitted to say was that the complaint expressed most loudly and forcefully by the immigrants in the detention centres we visited related not to the conditions in the centres but to the fact that they had never intended coming to Malta.
I therefore say that it is good that, through this debate and by means of this resolution, this Parliament is showing its solidarity with the immigrants as well as with the people of Malta, the Maltese authorities and the Maltese forces of order, which are doing a very difficult job.
The resolution we have before us reflects the alarming situation in Malta and other countries in an incisive, clear and objective way.
The document rightly states that the centres in which the immigrants are detained should be run in such a way that the immigrants’ dignity and rights are safeguarded.
However the resolution also makes it clear that no single country is able to cope with this problem on its own, let alone a country like Malta, which is shouldering a much greater burden than it can carry.
Mr&#160;President, every action taken by the European Union in order to help immigrants in a way that is fair and in order, too, to provide practical help to small Member States such as Malta does more than a hundred thousand declarations or leaflets to give the European Union more credibility and inspire more confidence in it.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I believe that the visits undertaken by the European Parliament’s Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs have the great merit of highlighting the fact that the imprisonment of foreigners has become, as it were, the standard way of managing migration issues and that this logic of imprisoning foreigners throughout Europe clearly demonstrates the limits of this development and its entirely unacceptable consequences - particularly in Malta - for the reasons that have already been pointed out in the debate.
Unfortunately, we need to move on from this de facto observation, since it was already made by large international human rights organisation in 2004 and 2005.
Firstly, people arriving in Malta must be able to submit and formulate their asylum applications in the countries in which they wish to settle.
I believe that these reforms are entirely necessary if we want to emerge from these situations that are totally catastrophic from the point of view of human rights.
The geographical position of Malta and its lack of financial and administrative resources to cope with waves of immigrants, especially after its accession to the European Union, which has resulted in an increase in the flow of immigrants and refugees, are no reason to justify the situation.
The conditions under which they are detained are poor and the lack of transparency in the modus operandi of the centres in question and the practices followed is unacceptable. &#160;&#160; – The Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs having sent a delegation to Malta to see for itself the situation facing illegal immigrants, I today note with satisfaction that Parliament is attaching due importance to the particular situation we have in Malta.
Everyone present saw the difficult situation faced by all those who have come to our shores and who are staying in our centres.
They also saw, however, the enormous efforts made by the Maltese Government to enable all those who arrive in Malta in an irregular manner to be treated well, despite very limited resources.
It is clear that this situation has to change soon.
I am speaking not only about financial aid (of which, I must say, we have seen precious little) but about more practical solutions whereby the European Union, of which we are Members, might help us absorb the huge influx of immigrants to our country.
We must duly respect the dignity of the detainees, but we can no longer go on stretching our resources and making efforts beyond our means.
The situation before us is a critical one, and we have to find solutions whereby we no longer place Malta under undue pressure to take action and do not allow the situation to get out of control.
The Commission, the Council of Ministers and Parliament should take action to put into effect, as soon as possible, the solutions already mentioned by the Members who have spoken before me in this debate.
The Government and the people of Malta will continue to do their utmost, but we are right to expect everyone to make real and practical efforts because I think that, ultimately, this is not only Malta’s problem, but a problem for all the Member States of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, what you have said today has genuinely made me put away the speech I had prepared and address you directly as a representative of the Commission.
I do not think you can expect us, the representatives of the Maltese people, to say thank you in this House because you are going to give us money or because you have given us as much money as we collect in one day for charity at Christmas.
Secondly, you have evaded the most crucial question of all.
That is what we should like to know today. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I thank you for the opportunity to address Parliament regarding this very important matter.
We also need solidarity – the solidarity whereby you come to our aid by taking refugees into your own countries in which they can be properly absorbed, as they cannot be in Malta, which is an island of just 300 square kilometres.
The Commission has so far provided all reasonable support possible and all the programmes that can be used will continue to be used to help Malta solve the problem.
So that is the main challenge.
It is very important that Parliament has raised this issue and consideration will be given as to how to address the situation in the best possible way.
The Commission will continue to work on this issue and provide all possible support at this stage, but it is very important that the Maltese authorities also do their job because I believe that humane conditions and dignity should be considered also from the national authorities’ point of view.
I should also like to highlight the positive role played by the Austrian Presidency, which has endeavoured to find wordings that, being based on Parliament’s first reading, would win the support of the Member States.
It is a question of guaranteeing a European label for the Olefin transport networks, thereby enabling them to lay claim to loans from the European Investment Bank, of adapting the guidelines to the shape of a European Union composed of 25 Member States, of authorising the funding of projects of common interest, of enabling an internal market in gas and electricity to be created and, above all, of ensuring the security of supply, thanks to interconnections between Member States and neighbouring countries: countries in South-East Europe, Mediterranean countries, Ukraine and Belarus.
These compromise amendments entirely correspond to our objectives at first reading.
These amendments will also provide a better definition of the role of the European coordinator, who it will be possible to appoint when a project experiences significant delays or problems to do with implementation.
Commissioner, allow me, however, to express two regrets.
On the other hand, you are aware that Parliament did not want to question the legitimacy of the projects featuring in the annexes to the report.
I am thinking, in particular, of the Baltic States, whose gas networks are by no means enough to provide them with a secure and sustainable supply, bearing in mind that priority was given to the Russian-German gas pipeline as a result of the agreements made between Mr&#160;Schröder and Mr&#160;Putin.
The new provisions introducing the declaration of European interest and the opportunity to appoint a coordinator are tools crucial to creating a genuine internal market in gas and electricity and to guaranteeing the security of supply.
Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support the common position as amended by this compromise package.
As a member of the European Commission group on trans-European networks, I have seen the good work the current European coordinators have done for transport infrastructures, because they really work to promote them, to find and identify the bottlenecks and try to find solutions.
The Green Paper and the recent reports by the European Commission on the state of liberalisation of the energy markets demonstrate this.
We support the maximum priority projects which are of a cross-border nature and which may increase transport capacity, security of supply and the trade in gas and electricity amongst the Member States.
I do not wish to end without mentioning the recent European Summit of 23 and 24 March, at which energy policy was treated as it should be treated, as a priority issue.
In particular, I am delighted that the Council has reintroduced the objective of increasing electricity interconnections between the Member States to a level equivalent to 10% of installed capacity, as agreed at the Barcelona European Council in 2002.
I believe that this text that we are going to vote on tomorrow is a good step in the right direction. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Laperrouze, for the outstanding work she has done, and particularly for the way she has consulted the shadow rapporteurs and for the good debates we have had.
The latest events have shown not only how precarious Europe’s energy supply is in some respects, but also how necessary it is in terms of our continent’s competitiveness that the supply of energy be improved, and in a sustainable way too.
That would be made possible if we were to invest more in achieving diversification, something to which we are committed not merely as a concept, but also as an objective.
I was not in agreement with all the framework conditions imposed on the appointment of coordinators, but we do in principle need them if certain projects are really to be got moving.
These coordinators can mediate between one country and another and perhaps avoid the sort of situation that has occurred with the Russia/Germany project – not because there is anything intrinsically wrong with the project, but because it would have been possible to involve other countries – Poland and the Baltic states for example – from the outset too.
I entirely agree with her position, which laments the ever imminent danger of a return to national positions, when we ought to be much more determined to construct strong and genuinely European networks for both electricity and gas.
It is only at this level that we can manage energy most effectively: for example, it is only by means of an actual network on a European scale that we will be able to fully exploit the great potential of wind power and, at the same time, the capabilities of the base load represented by the French nuclear reactors.
The recent reduction in supplies, precisely during a period of high demand for gas, highlighted how both the interconnection between originally national systems and the effective introduction of storage facilities – including by keeping exploited gas fields that are in the process of depletion on line – are absolutely crucial in terms of implementing solidarity among countries.
That also means that we need a point of reference that can act at European level, a coordinator that can secure a genuine market for both gas and electricity and that guarantees the security of supply and the optimal use of the resources at any one time.
The construction of a genuinely European network is an unavoidable necessity.
If a trans-European single market for electricity is established, it will mean a rise in the price of electricity, for example, in my country, Finland.
If the price of electricity in some other country falls, consumers in my country will pay for it.
Consumers in the producer country, in our case Finland, will not enjoy any price advantage linked to the fact that our waterfalls are harnessed for the production of energy from the fishing industry and transport for that spent nuclear fuel is buried for all eternity in our soil.
The free market also means the freedom to speculate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, looking at the energy policy controversy between the Council and the European Parliament, we cannot but ask ourselves: is the Union to be an institution in appearance only, is it just to pretend to take action, is it to be a theatre of fiction?
There are lessons to be learned from this year’s disputes between Ukraine and Russia and between Russia and Georgia, and those which could take place between Belarus and Russia in the near future.
The common European energy policy, while of course retaining the sovereignty of the individual Member States, must nevertheless be a new quantity.
Old methods were good for old times – the times when we had 10, 12 or 15 Member States.
The dispute about the European regulator and about European priority projects is in reality a conflict of visions, of whether the energy policy for Europe is to become a reality or whether it is to remain on paper.
Yet let us not be surprised about anything afterwards. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Commissioner Kroes, who is responsible for these matters, for being present with us today, for it is she who is in charge of the sector inquiry which will show us where there are bottlenecks in the energy market and whether these occur naturally or by human volition.
The second thing I want to say is that Commissioner Piebalgs is currently engaged in the review, the result of which will show us where action is needed.
That is an important situation in terms of foreign policy.
I would ask the Commissioner to have a Green Paper produced on this subject, so that, when disaster strikes, the necessary action can be taken throughout Europe and also by our neighbours. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on security of energy supply adopted last month states that the creation of energy networks is a number one priority, which is true.
TEN-Energy Networks have an important role to play in the Union’s internal energy market and security of supply, and it is security of supply that is the biggest problem we face.
Perhaps the coordinators could do something about this.
We therefore need an energy policy in which one country can help its neighbour, albeit in a way that is fair.
This is the only way to guarantee a secure supply of energy resources across the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, that did not happen in Europe, but it could have done.
Your proposals will result in a more expensive and less reliable energy supply.
Separating the transport network from electrical energy production units is an economic, ecological and industrial aberration.
Once again, the European institutions are taking the side of financial interests to the detriment of the general interest.
The capitalist market is incapable of making long-term investments in the energy sector.
Our Union needs a strong European public arm, funded by the public in order to fulfil the needs of Europeans. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that the supply of energy to the European Union should be secure, reliable and reasonably-priced, for the sake of both private citizens and the businesses based in it, and in order to maintain the competitiveness of the EU’s industries.
During the first debate, the European Parliament already approved the Commission's proposals on the laying down of priority actions, the description of projects of European importance and the appointment of a European coordinator for complex projects.
The European Union energy market has more than 450 million consumers.
Bearing in mind the recently arisen crisis involving Ukraine and Russia and the declarations made at Hampton Court, I stress that we undoubtedly need a common European energy policy.
We need more than the 25 individual Member State policies.
The creation of the European network in turn is only possible if we improve and expand the linking of networks.
On the subject of common interests and priority projects, I would like to remind Parliament of the gas transit pipeline project ‘Amber’ and to debate its inclusion on the project list of landmark priority projects of European importance.
It should also be taken into account that the implementation of projects would improve the security of energy supplies for states in the Baltic region. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the revised guidelines will extend the European Union’s current gas and electricity transmission networks to the new Member States, and I welcome that.
We have already seen what happens when the internal market does not work, when it is not fully completed, when supplies are not secured.
The common Baltic electricity market would become a constituent part of the EU electricity market.
Trans-European networks are an extremely important part, but they are just one part, of European energy policy as I see it.
In this respect trans-European energy networks actually provide the basis of an answer.
But there are two stages.
Here I think governments should help by seeking a common approach and not building competing networks; instead they should look to the development of the best projects, which serve the interests of most of the Member States and the European Union.
I would like again to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Laperrouze, and all the shadow rapporteurs who have had the patience to negotiate with the Council and, at the appropriate moment, reached this overall compromise that I can accept. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I hope that, on at least three points, forceful ideas are reaffirmed in order to show the people that the European institutions are there to serve them.
I will take these three examples and I will propose forceful ideas to you on these policies, ladies and gentlemen.
Firstly, the fight against monopolies: the European Union’s policy has been admirable in its struggle against Microsoft’s abuse of its dominant position.
My committee, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, chose not to support the Directorate-General for Competition in this fight.
Secondly, I will address the formation of these monopolies and the fight against cartels.
I believe that, in an attempt to do things too quickly, mistakes were inadvertently made in 1999 during the merger between Rhône-Poulenc and Hoechst.
We do not have the right to cancel the measures taken by the Commission, and I do not want this, but I am calling for a committee of inquiry to investigate what happened in order to understand how tens of thousands of employees and tens of thousands of small shareholders came to be ruined due to the Commission’s failure to carry out checks, despite the fact that it had committed itself to doing this.
The Directorate-General for Competition and the 2004 report approve of this aid when it is consistent with the Gothenburg policy and the Lisbon policy.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur Mr&#160;Lipietz and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for this report.
I will continue to involve you fully in policy development, even if the Treaty does not give this House a legislative role in this area.
Finally, I have two comments in response to Mr Lipietz.
First, the Commission’s handling of the Hoechst/Rhône-Poulenc merger in 1999 and 2004 has been discussed at length and in detail during the committee meetings when this report was being prepared.
The Commission has provided detailed responses to all the points raised.
Secondly, the Commission decided that some of the aid granted to Ryanair at Charleroi was compatible with the common market in the context of transport policy.
As rapporteur for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I would like to begin by saying how pleased I am that, since 1 May 2004, the competition policy has been extended to ten new countries as a result of enlargement and that the authorities of the new members have been integrated into the Network of Competition Authorities.
An active and growing role for Parliament gives more legitimacy and transparency to the implementation of the competition policy, as has been becoming clear.
It has improved the guarantees of its procedures and has promoted initiatives in the field of the information and communication society.
We have been keen to stress the importance of these actions and express our support.
Nevertheless, we have also detected shortcomings and weaknesses in the report, such as the lack of an assessment of the effects of the most important decisions on State subsidies and mergers, the treatment of services of general interest, the problems of collective negotiation in sensitive sectors, such as agriculture, the promotion of international cooperation, including with the emerging and developing countries, or the role of consumers in a genuine competition culture.
The final resolution will be more complete if it reflects all of these aspects, so that they may be given the attention they deserve.
The Microsoft case is particularly difficult because it includes interoperability in a highly technical field.
However, the general procedures for interoperability must not be defined by a hard case.
Hard cases make bad law, and at present it is even difficult to reconcile the proposals in the consultation document – such as paragraphs&#160;238, 239 and 240 – both with themselves and with the apparent demands on Microsoft.
She would therefore have been aware of the situation that would result when Ballast Nedam, owned by a Dutch construction company, unceremoniously pulled the plug on the UK subsidiary, leaving some 2000 employees with a grossly under-funded pension fund.
If this is the type of behaviour which results in people being awarded positions in the Commission, it is little wonder that Europe is doing so fantastically badly in everything it turns its hand to. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, when we debate competition policy, there is something that there is good reason for emphasising, namely the fact that European prosperity, European businesses and European jobs have been boosted by competition.
It is therefore perfectly legitimate and extremely important to defend competition policy against all those forces that, in various ways, wish to introduce protectionism.
Given, Commissioner, that you are going to reopen the debate on, among other things, the important concept of mergers, which plays a key role in competition policy, I should like to draw your attention to one point, in the hope that this Parliament will support us on this issue.
On the subject, for instance, of the alignment of the London Stock Exchange and Deutsche Börse, you were not competent in the end because the turnover in question lay below the thresholds.
It seems to me that this is also a matter for serious thought.
After all, globalisation has changed the world, and large undertakings with a considerable market share, which, for example, make important contributions in the field of innovation, must not simply be judged by their dominant position, but must be seen in a broader economic context.
I will confine my observation to a number of issues that have also been covered in the report and that have recently been discussed, particularly in the debate about the way in which national interests can once again come into play in competition policy.
The second point has also already been touched upon by Mrs Berès when she quoted the example of stock markets.
Secondly, I was rather surprised that the report on the year 2004 made absolutely no reference to postal markets.
Please allow me, though, to pass over the report and make a few brief comments on competition policy in general.
I believe that we in this House can say, with hand on heart, that we really do want to give priority in our economic policy to the full transposition of Articles 81 and 82.
With that in mind, I encourage you to carry on from where your last speeches began. &#160;&#160; – The ultimate aim of competition policy is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and, in so doing, to guarantee the provision of high-quality goods and services at affordable prices for most European consumers.
It is therefore important to update the rules in force to meet our objectives. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, competition policy is the motor that drives the strategy for growth and employment.
It is the competition policy that drives the internal market, and that is why there is a connection between the implementation of the four freedoms using the competition policy or because of it, and the reinforcement – both external and internal – of the single market.
I get the feeling that we are still treating competition policy as being on three levels: competition policy within the Member States, competition policy between the Member States, and the competition policy of the European Union in a globalised world, and that that is the reason why there is so much legal uncertainty.
There is, on the one hand, the debate about whether investigation of dominant position should refer to the national market on one occasion and to the European market on another.
We therefore urge the creation of a single European area for both research and energy, while also advocating codecision in fiscal policy matters, where the very minimum that is required is a single tax base for businesses. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to make three points.
First, I welcome both the European Parliament report as changed and the Commission’s report on the guidelines for 2004.
The Commissioner is doing a good job.
To my mind, competition and the internal market are married; they go hand in hand.
Commissioner Kroes takes care of the competition part and Commissioner McCreevy takes care of the internal market side.
The first is mergers: keep on fighting against the type of protectionist behaviour that you see, for example, from the Spanish Government in the Endesa case or from the Polish Government in the banking sector.
One can perhaps see both sides, but it is important to keep at it and, much like Mr Evans said, if we want a transatlantic market, let us keep it and let us watch out for American protectionism in the meantime. &#160;&#160; Mr President, before I start might I ask that someone remove the ‘t’ from my name up on the screen because it is quite unnerving really!
Madam Commissioner, you have made a number of very sensible statements about the future direction of competition policy in the EU, including the statement on 13&#160;December 2005 on improving rules for access to files in merger and anti-trust procedures.
Let me say that I am very happy with the statements of nearly everybody in this debate, especially the remarks that have been made about this portfolio.
I could not agree more with Mr De Rossa and Mrs van den Burg that we must deliver, within the framework of Europe, sustainable and full employment and social welfare; but at the end of the day we must also deliver more economic growth and more and better quality jobs.
The Commission informs you of all the major policy initiatives in this area and, of course, I pay attention to all the opinions of Parliament.
I have listened carefully to the views expressed by the rapporteur, by the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and by all other Members.
I would like to add a few words in response to specific issues.
Regarding a European network, I am really impressed by the European competition network and those concerned are doing an extremely good job.
With regard to Professor&#160;Neil Barrett, a very highly respected advisor to the Commission, he was indeed appointed by the Commission, but the list he headed came from Microsoft.
This is not only about Microsoft; there are complainants elsewhere and there are a couple of other really interesting American companies.
I hope that will clarify the situation when we come to discuss what was talked about last Thursday and Friday.
Another hearing – the Court hearing – will take place in Luxembourg on 24-28 April 2006.
Mrs Berès mentioned Mittal’s bid for Arcelor.
It is the responsibility of the Commission, the Commissioner and the services involved always to look very carefully and impartially at all cases.
The question is whether a decision can be taken and whether things can be done in the way requested by the parties, or whether there should be remedies.
Mr Hökmark and Mrs Ferreira raised the subject of mergers in the internal market.
The Commission has significant powers under the Treaty to act as an independent and impartial referee to ensure that Member States fully respect the internal market rules and do not create unlawful obstacles to cross-border mergers.
Nearly all of you agreed that we should fight for that. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I would also like to mention Mr Cashman’s initiative on the regulation of public access to the institutions’ texts, a report that is parallel to this one but which moves in the same direction.
On the one hand, the political leaders of the Member States support Article 1.2 of the Treaty on European Union, and they have signed the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, which states that the Council’s decisions must be taken as transparently, as openly, and as close to the citizens as possible.
The Council refuses to open up its legislative meetings to public and media scrutiny.
The European Ombudsman is right to say that we are dealing with a case of maladministration, concluding that the Council has not given a significant valid reason not to open up the doors to its discussions.
If millions of Europeans were able to watch the ministers on the television openly discussing European issues such as the energy crisis, the services Directive, the retention of personal data or stem cell research, we could awaken much more interest in European issues and we could put an end to the lethargy of millions of Europeans who show very little interest in European affairs.
This report adopted by the Committee on Petitions fully supports the recommendation of the European Ombudsman, who has taken the view that the principle of transparency should be applied not just to the discussions of the Council, but to all cases in which the European Parliament is involved, including consultations and issues relating to individual rights and freedoms and those included in the third pillar.
Nevertheless, and despite the recommendation of the British Presidency, the Council has not taken any steps to change its Rules of Procedure in a manner that promotes transparency.
The implications of this openness that we want to see could be profound for the Council and would change its nature.
The Council could begin with a pilot programme, which would explain how decisions are made and the nature of the procedure to millions of people in front of the television cameras.
The citizens and the European Parliament are asking the Council to come out into the open.
I was the original rapporteur on Regulation (EC) No&#160;1049/2001 on public access to documents and I well remember the heated debates, not only within Parliament but within the Council and within the trialogue, as we set out to win the arguments for what was at that time a groundbreaking regulation.
There are different approaches to openness and transparency.
I make several recommendations in my report and I call upon the Commission to take action.
This review was provided for in the original recommendation and there are several areas concerning the regulation’s implementation which now, several years later, could be substantially improved on the basis of the lessons that we have learned from its implementation.
We need to look again at the definitions of legislative and non-legislative texts in relation to public access to documents, in order to ensure that all the institutions are working in an open and transparent manner.
This is especially important when Parliament and the Council are working in a legislative capacity.
We need to look at the way we define the circumstances in which specific documents can be classified completely, or in part, as confidential.
These rules should provide legitimate derogations for specific clearly-defined reasons, but should not be interpreted in a broad sense, which would essentially have the result of denying public access to documents.
I know that, in terms of principle, there is a consensus between our institutions on this issue, and it is now the Member States that must take action and deliver results.
Openness also has to do with public access to documents and with Regulation 1049/2001.
The EU’s various offices and agencies – indeed, most of its bodies – have voluntarily adopted corresponding rules concerning access to documents.
In 2003, the Commission carried out an investigation into the ways in which the regulation had been introduced in the first few years.
The Constitution requires new legislation in this area.
The fact is, we all know how matters stand with the Constitutional Treaty.
Meanwhile, the European Court of Justice has also produced several proposals for introducing rules governing access to documents.
Mr&#160;Cashman’s report is therefore extremely timely, given that we are in the throes of looking to see how we can improve the rules governing public access to documents.
One of the conclusions drawn by the Commission in its evaluation report of January 2004 was that the regulation had primarily been used by EU professionals, lobbyists, consultants and law firms, rather than by the general public.
What, in the first place, we are concerned with here is, of course, public access to documents or the public’s right to keep itself informed, and that is a further argument in support of our wanting to see a general consultation take place before we change the legislation.
Recommendation&#160;2 talks about increased openness in the legislative procedure and of a clearer dividing line between legislative and administrative documents.
The same recommendation also relates to the Official Journal and electronic publication thereof.
Our institutions had jointly decided to look at this issue back in 2004, and the Publications Office has already issued a report on the future of the Official Journal.
A refusal to issue a document classified as confidential must be justified in precisely the same way as a refusal to make any other document available.
The same recommendation also discusses the issue of the European Parliament’s access to information classified as confidential.
Parliament’s rights in this area are controlled not by the regulation but by Annex&#160;1 to the framework agreement between our institutions.
We have embarked on an overhaul of the regulation, and we have begun to take a closer look at many of the issues discussed in the report.
It is therefore important for us to continue to cooperate constructively and for us to listen to the general public. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying, on behalf of the members of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the Committee on Petitions how grateful we are to Mr Hammerstein Mintz, the rapporteur, and also to Mr&#160;Cashman, for the work they have done and for the reports that have resulted from it.
It so happened that we were discussing with our friends in the German Young Christian Democrats just how it can happen that we so often get reports in the national media about certain decisions for which the European institutions are then blamed, even though the Council – which is very visibly present this evening – had an equal hand in taking them.
To do so would be to do a great service not only to the esteem in which Europe is held, but also, in this specific instance, to the prestige of the Council and of the European Union as a whole.
Despite the individual issues that Mr Cashman and Mr&#160;Hammerstein Mintz have addressed, there is less of a need for action on the transparency and openness front in the Commission and in this House, but certainly a good deal more remains to be done within the Council of Ministers.
He has worked very closely with all of us, and on behalf of the PSE Group I would like to say that he has the full support of my group.
The Ombudsman has given us great moral authority and has added moral authority to the cross-party campaign that exists in this House, which has commanded an astonishing degree of support.
In the case of my own country, it has managed to get pro-European Liberals and anti-European United Kingdom Independence Party members united on a platform together in common cause – a unique event.
There is a simple principle behind this: laws should be made in the open.
The Austrian Presidency now has the opportunity to make the difference.
The European Parliament cannot do other than find that intolerable.
Grateful though I am for this report, what I propose goes well beyond it: we in this House, as the representatives of the European citizens, should present the Council with an ultimatum, with the end of this year as the deadline.
That is where the vetoes are held and where there is scope for deferral for what the Commission and Parliament have decided.
It is there that the governments of the Member States do their bartering, where intransparent business interests are protected and where everything is shrouded in much secrecy.
In practice, this makes it impossible for Members of this House or of the national parliaments to be certain that the ministers of their Member States have voted as they said they would.
This renders democratic control over decision-making impossible.
The work of Professor Diamandouros, our European Ombudsman, is also closely associated with our Committee.
In addressing you on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, but also as Chairman of the Committee on Petitions, I am especially pleased to be able to speak of those three extremely well prepared documents and I would like to congratulate their authors, Mr&#160;Hammerstein Mintz and Mr Michael Cashman, on their excellent work.
There are at least three reasons for demanding such openness.
We have a right of oversight as individual Members of the European Parliament and as the European Parliament as a body, and we also have a right of oversight as members and as citizens of the European Union.
In addition, our colleagues, the Members of Parliament of the Member States whose ministers speak in the Council, also have a right to know.
In other words, both European and national public opinion have a right to know what takes place in the Council.
That is the way things are here in the European Parliament, and it is something from which the other institutions can learn.
Our committee meetings for the purpose of preparing legislation are open.
The proposal to reverse the procedure received 200 of a possible 220 signatures in the Convention.
No other proposals gathered so much support: all the elected representatives in the national parliaments, all but one of the Members of the European Parliament and 23 out of 28 governments.
The proposal does not even require a change to the Treaty.
Both the Commission and the Council can adopt the proposal by a simple majority: 13 out of 25 Commissioners and 13 out of the 25 countries in the Council.
Come on now, Mr&#160;Barroso and Mr&#160;Schüssel, get matters under way so that people might feel respect for the necessary cross-border cooperation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, firstly, I should like sincerely to thank Mr&#160;Cashman for his constructive cooperation over the years in the cause of increased openness.
The European Parliament has always been the driving force, but I must, in all honesty, also acknowledge that the Commission and the Council have also contributed lately to the really quite huge increase in quality that we have seen over the last five years.
The purpose of this overhaul is to produce the same rules for all three institutions.
The regulations must be designed in such a way that they can be embraced by the majority of institutions in both the EU and the Member States.
Parliament is taking this initiative on openness in order to increase democratic control and produce clarifications when legislation is unclear.
A lot remains to be done in this area. &#160;&#160; I thank Commissioner for being a committed supporter, together with the European Parliament, of making Council meetings public.
I can only repeat what was said by those who spoke before me, because everybody talked about the same issue: parliamentary legislation is a fundamental principle of modern democracy, invested with legislative and executive powers.
Although there are certain parliamentary chambers in Member States of the European Union – such as the British House of Lords – which are not elected directly by citizens, at Member State level these chambers, too, make their decisions publicly.
Therefore, I particularly welcome the excellent report of Mr David Hammerstein, the proposals of Mr Michael Cashman and the report of the European Ombudsman in this matter, and I would like to thank them for their work.
This way, this black hole in democracy could be filled and transparency would be a fact of life in legislation at EU level. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would thank the rapporteurs for their constructive work.
I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Cashman, who has once again done an excellent job, when he says that the fact that Parliament does not have a clear legal basis for access to classified EU information runs counter to the democratic principle on which the Union is based.
It is also regrettable that the institutions do not have a shared approach on how to manage, share and store various kinds of document.
There should also be clear rules on access to administrative documents.
The remedy is very simple: to change the Council’s rules of procedure, as Mr Hammerstein Mintz makes clear in his report.
The Commission will remain as the unelected government of the EU, formulating and dictating laws without any democratic mandate whatsoever.
Throw open the Council’s doors, and the Commission’s too. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I warmly congratulate Mr Hammerstein and the Commissioner on their efforts finally to democratise the meetings of the Council, to open up the doors of meetings in which legislation is passed without the citizens being provided with all the necessary information.
I must point out that, in my country, Spain, which voted in favour of the European Constitution, that was one of the arguments most accepted by the citizens: the possibility of democratising the meetings of the Council and assessing all of that information.
Transparency also requires that what is communicated is understood, that it is understood by all of the citizens.
We must therefore urge all of the institutions that are in favour of the democratic transparency of the Council to do everything within their capacity to guarantee that transparency in all languages. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by making a few comments about Mr&#160;Knapman’s absurd remarks.
Secondly, we want legal opinions drafted within the framework of a legislative process to be public, not just to parliamentary committees but also to the public, whom we represent.
However, we will all vote in favour – I hope even Mr Knapman. &#160;&#160; Mr President, having worked for six years at the Finnish representation and the Finnish Foreign Ministry – in other words, the Council – and three years in the Commission as a civil servant, I do not know if I am a liability or an asset in the discussion – probably a liability, and I address that to Pekka Shemeikka and all of his friends from the Council!
My first point is that we are dealing here with two separate but interlinked issues: access to documentation and openness in the Council.
We are much more open than national parliaments, so we must bear that in mind.
My second point concerns the opening-up of Council meetings.
It is a long story beginning with the Trumpf-Piris report in 1999, then there were several Council conclusions in 2001, the Constitution in 2004, and a Council decision in 2005.
My next point is about Coreper.
That would be a truly open and transparent Council, and that is what we need. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a lively, public, political debate on concrete issues is the basis for creating a European political space.
On 22 April the Competition Council will be meeting behind closed doors to decide on the future of the Services Directive, a directive in which millions of European citizens have taken an active role and active interest.
That debate should be in public. &#160;&#160; I am glad that the European Union institutions are becoming increasingly open and transparent, but we must remember that providing access to documents and ensuring the openness of Council meetings is not a favour which European Union institutions may but need not grant to European citizens.
If the European Union is exporting and wishes to export its basic democratic values associated with the protection of human rights and the values of good governance, it must itself become the best example of these values.
However, speaking from the perspective of the post-communist new Member States, but also of states aspiring to democracy and states in transition, I must conclude with regret that, due to their limited transparency, European Union institutions are still not the best example to follow.
To obtain access to a document, one needs first of all to know that it exists.
I cannot but agree wholeheartedly with the recommendations by the Ombudsman and the proposals by Mr Hammerstein Mintz or my friend Michael Cashman.
Ultimately, the question of the transparency of the Council brings us to the fundamental question of whether or not we want a European public opinion, a public opinion capable of expressing its satisfaction and its displeasure, capable of sending a message to the European institutions and capable of forcing the Council, as the rapporteur rightly notes, into the collective responsibility of its ministers.
In short, I believe that this debate has demonstrated that this House is clamouring for transparency.
That is what we are calling for, and I believe that we must adopt concrete measures and proposals and not just fine words. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, please accept my apologies for only just having arrived, but the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has only just come to an end.
We would not need to discuss this report if the Constitutional Treaty – in which this is one of our most important aspirations – had been ratified.
One possible answer during the period of reflection in which we find ourselves might be to open the doors to the public.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; We have already come a long way in opening the Council to the light of day, but we must go still further and I therefore welcome the thrust of this report.
The Council used to deliberate all the time behind closed doors, with no right of public access to documents, and did not even publish the results of its votes, thereby making it impossible for national parliaments to see how the ministers representing their country voted.
This House, as co-legislator, meets and votes in public, and all meeting documents are posted on the Internet.
The Council conclusions of 21 December 2005 on this subject lack boldness in this respect.
It is precisely in those areas where the Council decides only by unanimous assent that it is important that both the vote and the debate take place in public.
Moreover, access to documents of the institutions must be improved.
The European citizens who rejected the Constitutional Treaty in the summer of 2005 have demonstrated the need for a more transparent and more democratic Union. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0051/2006) by Mr&#160;Papastamkos, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the assessment of the Doha Round following the WTO Ministerial Conference in Hong Kong [2005/2247(INI)]. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we are sorry that the competent Commissioner, Mr Mandelson, is not present.
Suffice it to say that the European Union is, globally, the biggest importer of agricultural products from developing countries.
The general framework of limitations on duties must be evaluated in conjunction with: firstly, the important offer made by the European Union to eliminate the Community export refund system, secondly, the drastic reduction already made to internal Community aid and, thirdly, the comparatively disadvantageous position of European farmers and producers due to their obligation to comply with stricter rules.
At the same time, substantial progress is needed in other important sectors, which are sectors of offensive interest par excellence to the European Union, third industrialised countries and developing countries.
In services, further substantial liberalisation is needed with, of course, full respect for national policies and the right of the Member States to regulate their public services.
The differentiation between developing countries is not only fair, but is also required for the benefit of the weaker developing countries.
On the other hand, I believe that externalisation and the more active participation of developing countries in multilateral negotiations, commensurate with their level of development, would contribute to the more effective integration of these countries in the global economy.
However, they were an important further step to get a better understanding of each other’s positions.
As far as the timing and the deadline to agree on arrangements for agricultural and non-agricultural market access by the end of April is concerned, that is still a possibility.
That shows that the European Union finds itself in a better position than it was before and in the immediate aftermath of the Hong Kong Conference.
The equation to solve between the competing interests of the WTO members is not easy.
However, our objectives and our ambitions remain unchanged: creating genuine new business opportunities in agricultural and industrial products and services in developed and advanced developing countries, as well as contributing to development; restructuring trade in agriculture; and strengthening multilateral rules.
We can only attain our objectives through a broad and ambitious round.
If we want this round to truly deliver its development potential, then that needs to be taken into account.
However, advanced developing countries should provide a meaningful contribution through genuine new market access in non-agricultural market access and services, albeit less than developed counties.
As for other developing countries, we agree that they would take up fewer commitments in line with their level of development or, as far as least-developed countries are concerned, even no commitments at all.
One of the main achievements of the Hong Kong Ministerial Conference last December was the acceptance by other developed countries to follow the EU way of granting a duty-free, quota-free access to products originating in least-developed countries.
Since we are approaching the end phase in this round, we now need to deal with all negotiating areas simultaneously.
At the same time we must continue to reach out to the entire WTO membership, in particular the LDCs and the mid-range developing countries, to build multilateral consensus.
The final deal must serve the interests of all WTO members and especially the least-developed countries and the other weak and vulnerable members.
Even though this is becoming increasingly challenging, we will continue to work towards deadlines agreed in Hong Kong, such as that concerning agreement on the arrangements for agriculture and industrial tariffs by the end of April.
At the same time we will ensure that other issues in this round that will take longer, such as services, rules and geographic indications, remain part of the single undertaking.
That trade can make a contribution in the areas of development, poverty reduction and achieving the Millennium Objectives is not a matter of dispute.
It does remain a tricky subject, though, because whilst the interests of the different countries do not always run parallel, law and order do remain important in world trade.
That is why the multilateral trade framework remains of vital importance, particularly in the case of developing countries, and that is why we must make an all-out effort to finish this year’s Doha round on a positive note.
A great deal is left to be done in many areas, including, as the Commissioner has already pointed out, the working out of a special and differential treatment for support to the least developed countries, in particular, to enhance the trade and negotiating capacity with regard to trade-disruptive subsidies, such as internal support, etc.
These topics need to be further negotiated and none of this should depend on a result in agriculture or Non-Agricultural Market Access (NAMA) alone.
Mr Lamy warned us recently that failure to achieve the three key targets by the agreed deadline of 11 April is a recipe for the round’s failure.
Europe, the US and more developed developing countries should shoulder their responsibility in this respect.
However, regrettably, this report and frequently the talks themselves fail to devote sufficient attention to solving European Union services sector problems in trade, while the European Union services sector accounts for 70 per cent of the European Union's gross domestic product.
In developing countries, the lack of opportunity to take advantage of various progressive financial products, especially for small and medium business, where the largest proportion of these countries' populations are employed, hinders the modernisation of their economies and the transition of labour from agriculture to areas of higher productivity.
That is, in truth we must strive to change the structure of trade so that it is easier to work and so that a more modern economy is a more modern global economy.
That is, we ought to encourage trade in financial services, which would allow developing countries to modernise their economies and would in turn make the international trade structure more effective.
Of course, this means that we must discuss the introduction of standards covering the regulation of trade, company management and the regulation of financial services. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to start by extending the warmest of thanks to my colleague Mr&#160;Papastamkos for his report and for the clear and explicit views on what sort of result we would like to see emerge from the WTO.
It is not enough for the WTO to be given the main objective of extending trade.
We know that that will not be easy, but we are under a certain pressure of time, without which, as a rule, solutions are not arrived at in this area.
For that, of course, we need the parliamentary dimension in the various WTO countries.
The results in Hong Kong were modest — we debated this back in January — but a road map was drawn up, with established time limits, the first being this 30 April.
We still want this Round to close at the end of the year with an ambitious and balanced agreement in all fields of the negotiation.
We are counting on the negotiating skill of our competent Commissioners to persuade the United States to present new proposals with regard to internal aid to their farmers and to the emerging countries, in particular Brazil and India, to be flexible in terms of their positions and to present proposals leading to a genuine opening up of their industrial markets.
In the field of services, we must continue in the direction embarked upon in the recent plurilateral negotiations and the requests presented on 28 February must be accompanied by serious revised offers on 31 July, always bearing in mind that a balance must be maintained between the liberalisation of the markets and the member countries’ full right to regulate activity in this sector, particularly in the field of essential public services.
The WTO has taken concrete steps to improve the transparency and democratic participation in its decision-making processes, yet there remain basic flaws, which many of my contributions to this report have sought to address.
Who said what, which countries were invited or present, will never be known by the public.
Lack of access led to the collapse of talks in Seattle and Cancun when ministers exercised the democratic right and said ‘no’.
The 2005 talks were still structured so that discussions took place in different sites at the same time.
The Commission may have made conscious efforts to communicate with observers in Hong Kong, but that is no substitute for the direct input of elected parliamentarians to redress this clear democratic deficit. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what the Doha round was in essence about was the need for trade to support and promote development.
The large number of amendments tabled in committee testifies to the fact that there can be very different views of the value of accommodating differing interests and, of course, of setting a variety of priorities.
All states, and developing countries in particular, must be accorded the right to industrialise themselves at a speed of their own choosing, which means that they must also be allowed to protect vulnerable industries.
During the past week, no less a person than Pascal Lamy, the director-general of the World Trade Organisation, has once more confirmed that the GATS rules allow all states the free choice as to whether or not to liberalise their services markets, and, should they wish to do so, to do it as and when and to such an extent as they shall themselves choose.
Not even Annex C of the ministerial statement can, or should be allowed to, interfere with that in the area of services of public general interest such as education, culture, health, infrastructure and energy.
If all people are to be guaranteed access to medicines, then further changes will be needed in respect of mandatory licensing. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, we are debating the report of Mr Papastamkos on the assessment of the Doha round following the WTO Ministerial Conference in Hong Kong, which took place in 2005.
Even the preparations for the Conference and the action taken during that period by the Commission and the Council caused great concern in the European Parliament, especially in terms of the future of agriculture in the European Union.
Firstly, on 18 October, at the European Union Foreign Ministers Meeting, Commissioner Mandelson said that the European Union must make concessions to other countries during the WTO negotiations, because the European Union will gain more on the export of industrial goods and services than it will lose on weaker protection of agriculture.
Secondly, in December 2005, before the relevant reports were adopted by the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council hastily announced a reform of the sugar market, which will probably not help the poorest countries exporting sugar to the European Union, but will deliver a painful blow to the European Union’s sugar beet growers, especially those in the new Member States.
Those two facts demonstrate that before the Hong Kong conference took place, the Commission and the Council wanted to show the world their willingness to offer concessions during the negotiations, especially in agricultural matters.
As it turned out, other WTO members have shown no such far-reaching desire to offer concessions, and what is more, they have blamed the European Union for the lack of progress in the negotiations.
It seems therefore that during continued negotiations, which will take place in 2006, European Union institutions will have to abide by the following principles in relation to agriculture: concessions made during WTO negotiations must not undermine either the food self-sufficiency of the Union nor the European model of agriculture, nor its multifunctional character.
In the Hong Kong Ministerial Conference Commissioner Mandelson made significant concessions on European agriculture in exchange for, I suppose, the hope of concessions in non-agricultural market access from the other big economic powers but, as we know, they did not concede much.
In the exchange of agriculture for services, Irish sugar beet farmers have lost their crop, and we have now lost the last of our sugar factories, in Mallow, in my own constituency, which closed just two weeks ago.
Irish farmers are worried that beef and dairy will be sacrificed next, in an effort to get trade concessions in services.
Commissioner, when Mr Mandelson trades off the last Irish cow, what do you expect we will get?
So far I cannot see that we have obtained very much. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although the current round of multilateral trade negotiations has been going on since 2001, the ambition to conclude them this year looks increasingly unobtainable, certainly if we judge it by the incremental effect of Hong Kong.
Hong Kong failed to make any substantial headway on the liberalisation of the international trade in services or non-agricultural market access.
For example, in Northern Ireland our milk production industry is heavily reliant on export refunds available on whole-milk powder.
This concession should be taken off the table in a short period of time if there is no reciprocal response on non-agricultural market access and on services.
As one of the terms of EU membership, each state surrenders control of trade policy to Brussels so that no Member State can independently negotiate trade agreements with any country anywhere in the world.
It is quite clear that Ireland is the greatest success story of the European Union.
Our great challenge, within the context of the WTO, is how to find a key role for the European Union and how to get everyone on board.
We could have some bilateral trade agreements with other parts of the world.
Thirdly, and this is for Mrs Wallström – and through her for Mr Mandelson – I agree with those who say that we have already given many concessions, especially on agriculture.
Firstly, of course, I have to thank Mr Papastamkos, but I would like to include in that expression of gratitude Mr Moreno Sánchez, a member of my own group and its shadow rapporteur.
Both of them, along with all the other Members who have acted as shadow coordinators, have done excellent work in achieving – to some extent jointly – a good compromise and a credible report.
We find ourselves in a very tricky situation.
The second point I would like to discuss is the one that Mrs Mann, Mr Karim and others raised, which has, fortunately, had some influence on the report.
Secondly, the report states that the EU must show leadership.
The decision to phase out export subsidies is all well and good, but we must also look at the rest of the subsidy arrangements, including subsidies for rural districts.
Finally, I want to say how gratifying it is that the report alludes to the ILO and environmental standards, even though it does so in unduly broad terms. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Doha Round has been reduced to a typical negotiation designed to increase liberalisations to the advantage of large economic groups and, as such, it is a failure.
Furthermore, the continuation, until 2013, of the European export subsidies for agricultural products and of the US subsidies for the cotton industry will cause a further social disaster in developing countries.
Moreover, the possibility of keeping import tariffs on 3% of the products that are currently protected will enable the United States, for example, to reinforce the tariff protection on as many as 420 products, and it is very easy to imagine that the products safeguarded will include those very products that are of the greatest importance to the poorest countries.
It is because the EU must prioritise progress in these areas that I am delighted with the amendment in which the rapporteur calls on the Commission to draft an alternative action plan in case the negotiations fail.
I am therefore delighted to learn of the increased cooperation between the EU and the United States which has resulted in a common complaint about the imports of car components into China.
This is yet another illustration that the Commission must continue to give priority to a better implementation of the WTO rules by China. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, everyone in this Chamber is in favour of free trade; no one wants to re-create the Albania of Enver Hoxha’s time.
We are therefore all in favour of multilateral rules, but which rules, and to benefit whom?
Yet, have the rules applied to trade until now made nations wealthy?
In that case, let us continue and, in exchange for our concessions, Brazil and India will not open up their markets, and the Anglo-Saxon world will not recognise our intellectual property rights in relation to our agricultural designations.
Thus, Commissioner, we are persevering on the poverty path which, after ten rounds of GATT and WTO negotiations, has done nothing for Africa.
Tell Mr&#160;Mandelson that his role is not that of following in the footsteps of David Ricardo, but of having John Maynard Keynes’ capacity for invention. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to begin by paying tribute to the remarkable job done by my friend, Mr&#160;Papastamkos, the former Greek Minister for Economic Affairs, in terms of piecing the facts together and finding a compromise, and I should like, Commissioner, to ask you to pass on my thanks to Mr Mandelson for all the work he has done.
The greatest success of the Hong Kong Conference was the fact that it was not a failure.
I have two proposals and one remark to make.
Furthermore, we must place emphasis on important planning efforts, enabling quantitative and qualitative assessments to be made of the economic and social impact in Europe, in terms, for instance, of employment in the context of these negotiations.
Some of our important economic sectors, such as the agri-foodstuff industries, are very vulnerable in these negotiations, and the least we can do is to provide them with information.
During the debates on our European Constitution, we had explained that we needed a more political Europe in order to exist in a world that is becoming more complex by the day.
Admittedly, the round is making progress, but it is not keeping pace with the clock counting down to the moment when the US administration’s negotiating mandate will expire and, unlike in the case of the previous rounds, we do not have the opportunity on this occasion to extend the debates by two or three years, unless we jeopardise the entire multilateral structure.
In particular, industrialised countries, Europe and the United States must make decisions and commitments and they must make the necessary gestures, because this round is a development round.
Admittedly, the G20 countries - the emerging countries - will themselves also have to make a number of concessions in the area of industrial tariffs, but we know that there will be less than full reciprocity.
We cannot demand that they jeopardise a number of fragile economic sectors or industrial or service sectors that are still not necessarily ready to be opened up to international competition.
I therefore believe that, despite everything, this round deserves to be concluded and I perhaps differ in that regard from some of my friends, such as Mr&#160;Agnoletto, who was pointing out its inadequacies a short while ago.
There are certainly inadequacies, and the European Union’s energy must be focused on making sure that the commitments made to promote development are respected.
The implementation of this process must start before 2013 and, above all, it must be accompanied by a commitment and monitoring mechanism that guarantees that the other industrialised countries, and not just the European Union, move in the direction of abolishing all export subsidies.
Developing countries will, all the same, have greater access to the market of wealthy countries for their agricultural produce, and the list of sensitive goods must be reduced.
The least developed countries must be able to access the market free from duties and quotas, but a proportion of the 3% of tariff lines that will enable some countries, such as Japan or Australia, to avoid making this effort must be abolished; the TRIPs agreements on access to medications must be amended; and provision must be made for a development package including trade aid that must not be substituted for the aid already provided for in the context of the official development aid earmarked for the Millennium Development Goals. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I speak on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party.
The multilateral system is the only form of negotiation that is likely to guarantee a balanced approach among all the members.
The Commission must insist that the rules in force are strictly applied against these activities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Africa accounts for less than 2% of world trade, and yet, the development round remains stuck on inadequate concessions.
They deserve the permanent right to protect their own agriculture, because the livelihoods of seven in ten people in those countries depend on this sector, and they deserve liberal access to the growth markets of the EU, the US and the G20.
As has been mentioned, we have proposed real cuts in agricultural tariffs, but they must be matched by real cuts in industrial tariffs and services liberalisation.
The Commission delegation in Geneva will also provide the support we usually offer to MEPs on the ground when they are on official business abroad.
Again I thank you for the discussion and I will make sure that your views are immediately forwarded to Mr Mandelson and to the Commission as a whole. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have one short question concerning the point the Commissioner just raised, that the April meeting will be a general Council meeting.
If the decision or format is changed, then we will also have to ensure that the provision – when it comes to the participation of MEPs – is changed thereafter in accordance with that.
We welcome the participation of Members of the European Parliament, which has always been very helpful and would, again, provide openness and good support. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
