We have worked together very well in attempting to get the Institute up and running as soon as possible, and we have been very successful in this.
We want all the Member States to have access to information on how to successfully combat violence, forced prostitution and sexual exploitation, along with a Europe-wide exchange of information on how discrimination based on gender may be brought to an end in the twenty-first century.
The Commission was highly supportive in accepting at once 35 of the 50 amendments that we adopted at first reading, although there were others for which we had to fight.
We wanted to see the institutions supported in their work and that work being efficient and helping to make equality a political reality.
rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group I would like to thank my colleague, Lissy Gröner, for the work that we have achieved together.
Parliament and in particular the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality supported the idea of establishing this institute.
Honourable Members, I should also like to thank the rapporteurs, Mrs Gröner and Mrs Sartori.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. (SK) The Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality did well to appoint two rapporteurs from the PPE-DE and PSE to draw up a report on the Commission's proposal to establish the European Gender Institute.
The resulting report is well balanced, and I would like to give my sincere thanks to you, Mrs Sartori and Mrs Gröner.
It is a source of great satisfaction that there will finally be a European institute which will continually analyse the issue of gender equality in society and collect data in a systematic way.
We can be sure that this will be the case in Lithuania, as the Lithuanian government proved its commitment when it provided the additional EUR 50 million, which will be available from Community funds for seven years.
Only time will tell how significant its role is, but its timeliness is highlighted by the fact that 2007 will be the year of equal opportunities in Europe.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I too would like to give many thanks to the rapporteurs.
The European Gender Institute cannot be a substitute for practical policies and real laws, and it must not become an excuse for the failure to implement legislative initiatives. (The President cut off the speaker) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Mr President, I should like to say a big thank you to everyone concerned for their hard work and commitment and a special thank you to Mrs Gröner and Mrs Sartori for the fact that this Institute is now finally to be set up and to begin its important work.
Pleased as I am about this step towards setting up an Institute for Gender Equality, I am also, in equal measure, disappointed about the fact that, in 2006, there is a need for a special institute to champion rights that women self-evidently should possess and that we have not progressed further when it comes to recognising the right of half of humanity to lead their lives on the same conditions as the other half of humanity.
I really do hope that, in the vote in plenary, we shall support setting up an Institute for Gender Equality, which will be a major and important step towards our really being able in the future to talk about democracy and human rights that are the same for everyone, irrespective of gender.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, the idea of creating an Institute for Gender Equality, described as one of the most important aims of the Community, was conceived in 2000, when it became clear that there was significant gender inequality in the majority of policy fields.
I honestly have to congratulate rapporteurs Mrs Sartori and Mrs Gröner, for their amendments in the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of the Institute.
The Institute's administration should guarantee representativity of Member States in all its actions.
I am very glad that this institute is finally to become a reality.
I believe that the institute will play an important role in Europe both as an inspiration and a disseminator of information in the field of equality.
The institute should be operational as soon as possible, with a clear focus on both collection and analysis of data; and it is then up to us here in Parliament to ensure that the analysis it comes forward with is pushed through all policy development in the future. (NL) Mr President, gender equality is a regularly recurring theme in this House.
I am, in short, all for the equal treatment of men and women, and of equal opportunities for them, but, at the moment, we do not particularly need a new European institute to take care of this. (ES) Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Gröner and also Mrs Sartori, the Council and the Commission, on the agreement reached.
The fact that the Treaty of Rome contained an article expressly mentioning equal remuneration for men and women, and that the passage of 50 years has left us at almost the same point, should bring home to us the fact that on this issue a lot of work still remains to be done. (PL) Mr President, the idea of creating an Institute for Gender Equality was conceived in 1995.
It is a huge responsibility for the Member States.
I wish to thank the Commissioner, all the speakers and Mrs Záborská and her committee for their important work.
