The European Union will stress in particular that combating climate change may be combined with fast economic development and, furthermore, that policies to reduce emissions must be incorporated into decision-making procedures in crucial sectors.
However, we need to look beyond Nairobi, given that Europe needs to step up its efforts in order to persuade its partners throughout the world to continue efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions after 2012.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his well-chosen words here this evening.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, Al Gore has been travelling the world, spreading his message, for some time.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for coming to speak to such a packed house about the most important subject facing the planet!
I know that you are sending the national allocation plans back to the Member States and saying that a 15% margin between allocations and real CO2 emissions is far from good enough.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the message that we are receiving from the world of science is becoming ever more serious: the more recent the study, the more serious the message from science is on accelerated climate change.
That is evident from the huge success of Al Gore's film, long articles in the big newspapers on climate change and its possible solution, and, most recently, the latest issue of Scientific American on energy without coal.
It is not enough that emissions are traded; emissions trading must also result in a reduction in emissions in the way described in the Kyoto Protocol.
The lifetime of a power plant is 40 years.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, there is no doubt in anyone's mind that climate change is for real.
Interestingly, the last conference on climate change in Montreal was publicly described as a victory.
The anticipated total initial funding from public and commercial sources is EUR 100 million.
Mr Davies said that collectively the first 17 plans notified propose a total allocation that exceeds 2005 emissions of these Member States by about 15%, which is really a lot.
As regards tackling transport emissions, which contribute to about 22% of the emissions in the European Union, this year the Commission will put forward a legislative proposal to include the aviation sector in European Union emissions trading.
The Commission also intends to promote adaptation measures, helping the regional and national decision-makers to deal with increasingly evident impacts of climate change.
On the basis of a Green Paper on adaptation to climate change, to be launched at a conference in Brussels on 1 December, the Commission will begin a public debate on the need to adapt to unavoidable climate change.
Close to the adaptation of the energy package, the Commission will also be releasing a Green Paper on the European Union's views on further action to tackle climate change.
One of our main objectives will be to bring on board the United States and other fast-developing countries like China and India in a common but differentiated way, as provided for by the United Nations Convention on Climate Change.
I believe that since last year in Montreal there is a certain new momentum in the international debate on climate change.
