I am very pleased to welcome the President of the Euro Group, the Luxembourg Prime Minister and Finance Minister Jean-Claude Juncker.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I am pleased to present the second ever report of the European Parliament in response to the Annual Report of the European Commission on the Eurozone.
The Commission's report presents the economic situation in the Eurozone in 2007.
I would also like to congratulate Commissioner Almunia on preparing the Commission's second report on the economic situation in the Eurozone and express the wish that the reports prepared in coming years bring just as good news as this one.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I am happy for this report to be debated jointly with the report on the eurozone.
Two million jobs were created in 2006 and unemployment fell from 8.4% to 7.6%.
Article 111 of the Treaty assigns responsibility for exchange rate policy to the Council but without specifying how this responsibility should be exercised.
The recent Irish Permanent tsb/ESRI index shows in fact that house prices fell by 2.1% between January and May 2007 and a further decline in Ireland is expected.
If the average loan was between EUR 200 000 and EUR 400 000, then between 10 000 and 20 000 such loans exist in Ireland alone.
In one case a mortgage company operating in Ireland since 2005 has already repossessed 30 homes.
President of Eurogroup. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President of the European Central Bank, Madam President of the committee, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, We, in Europe, have replaced the fundamental debate with simple words.
I have read a summary of these long debates in editorials that take up scarcely 25 lines, and we complain that Europeans are poorly informed of what is really going on in Europe!
On the other hand, I am pleased to note that, one or two nuances aside, there is very little difference between the substance of the report by our friend, Mr Rosati, and our, the Eurogroup's, joint consideration, since our joint finding is that growth in Europe is on the up again, is expanding, is continuing, and everything rests on our knowing whether, in a few months' time, we will be able to see whether or not this prolonged recovery, this renewed growth in Europe, will enable us to say that the growth potential of the European Union, and of the eurozone in particular, has substantially increased.
The deficits are decreasing.
When the economy is going well, when growth rates provide so many grounds for satisfaction, when economic growth gets back on track, it is clear that those times - which, in Franglais, we call good times - must be turned to good account, so that the structural deficits in our public finances can be brought down.
We approve heartily of the set of reforms under way, because they are structural reforms sought by the French Government and by the French President, but we would emphasise that which we expect and demand from France: like the other Member States of the eurozone, it must meet the medium-term objective that we have set ourselves on 1 January 2010.
However, we have been given reassurances regarding a reduction in the deficit in 2008, as compared with 2007, regarding the principle, which has been accepted by the French authorities, of allocating all the profits from revenue made in relation to budget estimates, in so far as the revenue is short-term revenue, and regarding the reduction in the deficit and the debt.
ECB. - (DE) I would like to start by giving a short review of economic and monetary developments in 2006 and explaining the monetary policy decisions taken by the ECB.
In 2006, the ECB's monetary policy continued to anchor medium- and long-term inflation expectations at levels consistent with price stability, reflecting the credibility of the ECB in conducting its monetary policy.
As has been said by the rapporteur very eloquently, in 2006 the euro area economy expanded at the highest growth rate since 2000.
Our assessment that upside risks to price stability prevailed has been confirmed throughout the period from the start of 2006 to mid-2007 by cross-checking with the monetary analysis.
The marked dynamism of monetary and credit growth in 2006 and 2007 reflected a continued persistent upward trend in the underlying rate of monetary expansion, adding further to liquidity accumulation.
For the Governing Council as was very eloquently said I have to say by both the rapporteur and by the President of the Eurogroup, it is important that all governments comply with the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact on fiscal consolidation and that all the countries concerned honour the commitments made at the Eurogroup meeting in Berlin on 20 April 2007.
As agreed in Berlin, taking advantage of the favourable cyclical conditions would enable most euro area countries to achieve their medium-term objectives in 2008 or 2009, and all of them should aim for 2010 at the latest.
Against this background, the report which was issued in May 2007 by the Financial Stability Forum at the request of the G8 on highly-leveraged institutions is welcome.
I have noted with satisfaction that the approach of the Single Euro Payments Area and the Target 2 project is very positive and we will continue in the Eurosystem to play our role in this regard.
I must thank both Mr Rosati and Mr Mitchell for the wonderful reports they have presented to us and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for the work it has done in the debate on the proposals that we are currently discussing.
It is a recovery with investment that is growing in a very satisfactory manner and which heralds future improvements in our economy and with an economy that is helping to generate - in the case of last year - two million jobs in the countries of the eurozone.
I believe that everybody, the Commission, of course, but also the Council, and in particular the Eurogroup, the European Central Bank and the European Parliament, have the responsibility to explain to our citizens that this European project, eight years after its creation, is currently yielding very good results.
Yesterday, Ecofin formally adopted the latest decisions required in order to confirm that the eurozone would be enlarged to include Malta and Cyprus on January 2008.
Next year three new Member States will also have joined the Economic and Monetary Union, sharing the single currency with 318 million other Europeans.
I believe that that is a very positive element which was debated yesterday and agreed to everybody's satisfaction, not just by the 15 members of the eurozone, but also by the other 12 States that do not yet share the single currency, and I believe that that is worth stressing at this point.
This is the most topical and most difficult debate during economic good times, because during economic good times, it is more difficult, not in economic terms but in political terms, to carry on consolidating public finances and the instruments in the hands of the Commission and the Council to assist in that correction of public finances beyond the 3% limits and towards the mid-term objective of balance in structural terms.
Article 111 of the Treaty merely stipulates that, I quote, 'in the absence of an exchange-rate system in relation to one or more non-Community currencies (...) the Council, acting by a qualified majority either on a recommendation from the Commission and after consulting the ECB or on a recommendation from the ECB, may formulate general orientations for exchange-rate policy in relation to these currencies'.
That is what we are asking you for, Mr Juncker, Mr Trichet and Mr Almunia: general orientations for exchange-rate policy in relation to the currencies of our major partners and competitors, rather than a general laissez-faire policy and not very credible declarations on the lack of economic impact of a largely over-valued euro.
Like you, Mr Almunia, we are calling for a legal minimum wage in every EU country or at least in the Eurozone.
