Shipping disaster in the Sea of Asov/Black Sea and the subsequent oil pollution (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the shipping disaster in the Sea of Asov/Black Sea and the subsequent oil pollution.
We know that heavy storms in the Black Sea region in November caused a tragic loss of life and property and of course damage to the environment, with an estimated leakage of 1 300 tons of fuel oil and the sinking of ships carrying sulphur.
The key results of the mission will be presented to the Ukrainian authorities in Kiev on 14 December.
Our voice, therefore, is exceptionally important in this matter.
I therefore ask the House to adopt the motion for a resolution that has been tabled, in which we call on the Council and Commission to step up cooperation with non-EU riparian states.
The Community Civil Protection Mechanism sent a team of 7 experts to the field to evaluate the effects and identify the necessary actions.
The legislative package on maritime transport is important for the Black Sea region.
The Directive regarding port control and Directive 65/2005 on port security will increase the maritime transport safety in the region.
I believe that if stringent maritime safety measures are maintained only in the European Union, this will not save the environment in the seas adjoining it unless it can bring in international standards.
Thank you. (HU) We have seen explosive growth in many areas in recent decades, but nothing compares with the growth that has taken place in global trade and, in connection with this, the transportation of goods.
Sea transportation has played a prominent role in this explosion, since 90% of the European Union's external trade is in this area.
Over the last month three grave disasters have occurred, the total scale of which is the same as the Exxon Valdez pollution of 1989, so this must have a sobering effect.
The European Union Heads of State and Government have undertaken the commitment to stop the reduction of biodiversity by 2010, and these objectives must be achieved in the sea sector as well.
If we take the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea as a single region, its market has a foreign trade potential worth over 200 million Euro and a population exceeding 350 million.
First and foremost, I appeal to the European Commission and, of course, the Member States, especially Bulgaria and Romania, to launch priority study of the need for a regional rescue centre for the Black Sea region to help countries cope with serious situations like the one we witnessed a few months ago.
Thus, I welcome the 2007 launching of the Black Sea Synergy, but I reiterate an essential aspect from my report, namely the need to take concrete and firm steps in order to develop and achieve this cooperation initiative, both within the region and between the region and the European Union.
The 11 November 2007 black tide tragedy has proved to us that, in this field, we need to combine our efforts.
The European Union has to play a central role entirely, both through increased involvement in the Black Sea Synergy development and by encouraging its neighbours and partners in this direction.
This is the only way in which we will be able to respond efficiently to the expectations and calls of our citizens who face the direct consequences of the 11 November disaster today. (BG) First and foremost, I would like to express my satisfaction with the fact that the Commission has come up with this opinion.
Maritime safety is too important an issue to be the subject of tactics, too serious because of the events that have already taken place: Erika, Prestige, more recently Segesta Jet in the Strait of Messina and Sea Diamond in Santorini!
But on the general issue of maritime safety, my colleague Vice-President Barrot wrote on 10 December to his colleague Mr Levitin, who is the Russian Minister of Transport, to raise these concerns and to stress the importance of strengthened EU-Russia cooperation in the Black Sea as well as the Baltic Sea - in order to improve maritime safety.
The Commission has set out its views on a strategy in the region in its communication 'Black Sea synergy - a new regional cooperation initiative'.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 13 December 2007. (The sitting was suspended at 19.30 and resumed at 21.00)
