There is probably no other area in which we have such precise knowledge as in this one, allowing us to promote growth in Europe.
The step that has been taken in relation to the 25 national reform programmes is important, but I believe that we should place extremely great emphasis on a very thorough assessment of the progress made with those national programmes.
We are having this debate a few days before the Commission's decision on the progress report on growth and employment policy in 2006.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - (PL) Madam President, I would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur, and thank her for all the work undertaken on an issue of such great importance for the future of the European economy.
Bearing in mind, however, that a patent costs on average EUR 46 700 in Europe compared with EUR 10 250 in the United States, I think that we know, unfortunately, why this is so.
In the process of being reorganised under the auspices of the World Trade Organisation, this Agreement offers the 36 signatories, including our 25 Member States, access to their partners' public procurement markets.
We therefore have a duty to promote a European Small Business Act on the model of that in place in the United States since 1953.
We might be said to be 50 years behind.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (LT) Firstly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the preparation of her speech.
At the Summit Meeting in March, the Member States also agreed to simplify registration procedures for new enterprises.
In Lithuania at the present time, 152 controlling bodies are in operation.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Thank you.
A task that is behind schedule in the promotion of the free movement of labour is achieving comparability between Member States' degrees and qualifications, which has become particularly topical following the 2004 enlargement and the accession of Bulgaria and Romania.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, just for a moment I should like to test our wonderful interpreters. 'European Union entrepreneurship' is an oxymoron, is it not?
Secondly, when compared with - for example - the United States, it is indeed the case that there are fewer people in Europe who are prepared to set up a business themselves or to run one, or - to put it in the way a Member did a moment ago - to take upon themselves the risk of using their own money to create jobs for others.
The first fifty to do so have now got back, and the results are fascinating.
Written statement (Rule 142) (FR) I voted in favour of the excellent report by Mrs del Castillo Vera on the subject of entrepreneurship and growth.
