It is clear that the political and administrative management of the World Bank is thus an extremely important subject.
However, as a representative of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, I am unfortunately not able to set out a position on behalf of the Council, or to report on the work carried out by the Council on this matter.
For this reason, the Council has not taken a position on the matters in question, because it has no authority to do so.
None of the bodies of the Council have discussed a strategy for the World Bank, or the coordination of a possible common European position in this regard, or the decision-making procedures within that institution.
I would also like to add that the Member States are working to coordinate their positions in order to have greater weight within the international institutions, including the international financial institutions such as the World Bank; this exercise does not, however, involve the Council as an institution since, as I said, the Community has no competence in this field.
It is also true that Mr&#160;Wolfowitz, who has been nominated for the post of President of the World Bank, came to Brussels, where he met the President of the Ecofin Council, Mr&#160;Juncker, and the representatives of the other European governors of the Bank.
The World Bank and the European Union are the two main world players in the fight against poverty and in the funding of development aid.
This Parliament is well aware that the Union provides around half of the total public aid to the developing countries, and that, furthermore, in the majority of cases, the Union is their main trading partner, which reflects the emphasis placed on solidarity within our international policy.
The main objective of the Community’s development policy is to reduce, and ultimately to eliminate, poverty.
This means supporting sustainable economic, social and environmental development, promoting the gradual integration of the developing countries into the world economy and combating inequality.
Last month the Commission proposed two additional and interrelated objectives for 2010: an intermediate objective, for the whole of the Union, of 0.56% of GDP in development aid, and an individual objective in official development aid for each of the Member States, which would be a minimum of 0.51% for the Member States which belonged to the Union before enlargement and 0.17% in 2010 for the new Member States.
Apart from aid, the policies of the developed countries have an enormous influence on the possibility of the developing countries achieving the Millennium Objectives and, in this regard, the Commission is stressing the importance of the coherence of development policies and for the first time is making commitments in this regard in these communications.
With regard to relations with the World Bank, I would like to refer to two issues: operational cooperation between the Commission and the Bank, and the European Union's representation in the governing of the World Bank.
The World Bank is working to achieve these objectives, by means of its principal operational lines and by assessing the progress made towards achieving these objectives within the context of the Global Monitoring Report.
The Commission and the Bank cooperate closely in the provision of aid, by means of the Trust Fund Agreement, signed in 2001 and amended in 2003.
This cooperation led to the Union's participation in various trust funds, with a total contribution of more than EUR 1&#160;500 million since 2000.
Furthermore, both the Commission and the Bank increasingly work on the basis of national poverty reduction strategies defined by the developing countries themselves.
These memorandums serve as a practical framework for enhanced cooperation in terms of economic dialogue and technical and financial assistance.
Despite these figures demonstrating the Union’s participation, both in the Bank's capital and in its funding, we are not taking full advantage of that weight as a result of the lack of unified Union representation in the Bank's governing bodies.
And thus, despite the fact that, numerically, the Member States of the Union dominate the Bank’s governing council, overall they have less influence than the United States.
This situation is the same as the situation in the International Monetary and Financial Committee of the International Monetary Fund and is in clear contrast with the European Union’s influence on development cooperation compared to its effective influence in the World Bank or in the life of the international monetary system, by means of our single currency, in the case of the International Monetary Fund.
The Commission has been insisting that, if the Union wishes to put an end to the disparity between its influence and its contributions and aspires to a greater presence on the international stage, it must speak with a single voice.
For example, since last year, the executive directors in the World Bank from the European Union have been holding annual meetings with Members of this Parliament, with the Commission and with representatives of non-governmental organisations.
The Union’s executive directors in the World Bank have agreed to meet on a weekly basis to exchange opinions and a Commission official from our delegation in Washington participates regularly in these meetings.
The Commission is working to improve the coordination of the European executive directors in Washington, but the ultimate objective must be unified representation of the Union within the governing bodies of the World Bank.
In conclusion, our cooperation with the World Bank is long-standing and intense, particularly in terms of supporting the developing countries.
The Commission wishes to maintain and enhance these excellent working relations and to improve coordination, both with the World Bank at operational level and amongst the representatives of the Member States in the Bank's governing bodies.
It shows that the appointment of senior managers in the international system still leaves a lot to be desired.
It is also typical that, in the talks now being conducted on the future composition of the Security Council, we have no discussion at all about whether the EU, as a unified body, should have a place on the Security Council and about the fact that what still counts is, instead, the Member States acting on a national basis.
We need to cooperate in a more concerted manner and we must harmonise our efforts in a quite different way in order genuinely to obtain the results we want from action taken by the EU and to be able to accept greater responsibility in the global arena. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Schmit and Mr&#160;Almunia, may I thank those last two gentlemen for their contributions today concerning the World Bank.
There is no doubt that, five years after we signed the Millennium Declaration in 2000 concerning the developing countries’ basic needs up until 2015 – I was myself one of the signatories – we now have to note that matters have not moved in the right direction.
It has a series of important reforms under way, but we are still not tackling a number of problems.
The first task proceeds from the real need we now have in Europe to find a way of taking concerted action in the World Bank.
I am not talking about a new conflict of interests; I am talking about a far better balance in the World Bank and about our needing, as the second task, to ask for a reform of its lending rules and conditions and, indeed, to insist that this takes place.
We must ensure coordination between the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and UN aid to the developing countries.
The third task relates to the need we have for reform of the Washington consensus.
Our fourth and final task, Mr&#160;President, is genuinely to take the ILO’s report on world poverty seriously, something that the World Bank too should do. ‘Decent jobs for all’ is the crucial tool for eradicating poverty.
Sixty years ago, the developing countries were still incapable of standing up for themselves, today, their influence in multilateral negotiations, for example those in the context of the World Trade Organisation, can no longer be ignored.
All this indicates that the World Bank is in urgent need ofdrastic reforms.
As long as the developing countries have no real say in its policy and decision-making, the World Bank will continue to be perceived as a control instrument in the hands of the so-called rich, instead of an international institution that is geared towards stability and development, in a spirit of mutual respect and solid partnership.
With regard to the appointments procedure, we very well know that directives were issued between 2000 and 2001 to make it more transparent and acceptable.
They could have done so.
As regards the quality of World Bank policies, today we have no particular guarantees that certain small breakthroughs initiated by Mr&#160;Wolfersohn will be continued: I am referring to governance and to the issue of corruption.
If this Parliament and public opinion had been aware of these issues, they would in all likelihood have acted differently.
We would like to think that the President of the World Bank had a positive approach to resolving intercultural conflicts, in addition to an unquestionable commitment in support of multilateralism, together, of course, with a personal involvement in ensuring social equality and in the fight against poverty.
That is also the case as regards the system of votes and seats, which needs to be reviewed, partly in response to requests from countries of the South and movements that have been calling in recent years for a different South and for involvement.
The European Union has pledged to guarantee and to facilitate a greater level of co-partnership from developing countries in global economic decision-making processes, including international financial institutions.
Leaving aside those agreements and the commitments undertaken by the EU – in Monterey, Barcelona and Johannesburg – however, it would be correct and logical to ensure good governance in the running of an institution that requires co-partnership as a foremost condition for gaining access to financing.
The lack of compliance with the criteria of democracy and transparency undermines the foundations, the legitimacy and the credibility of international institutions, in a world in which we feel the need for strong and legitimate international institutions that promote involvement: one only has to read Aminata Toure’s book, which uncovers her tragic experience of the conduct of the World Bank in Mali.
The European Union can play a fundamental role in ensuring this legitimacy; indeed, the European Union must carry out this very role, but in order to do so, it must speak with one voice: greater coordination among the European directors must be developed, given that Europe holds 30% of the votes on the Boards of the World Bank and of the International Monetary Fund.
Clear responses are needed: democratic reform of the processes must, however, also aim at overturning the asymmetry between the economies of North and South.
On 18&#160;May, the Commission will turn its attention to the European Transparency Initiative.
Unless this happens, we will be unable to honour our commitments, both within the EU and outside of it.
We will be unable to play our role properly within these organisations if we do not start by establishing an order of this kind in the EU.
I think that that was our failing, and a report by the Council and the Commission has been honest enough to say so.
In Africa, for example, the World Bank has been involved in the priority initiative on education.
Neither the Council nor the Commission is prepared to occupy it.
The problem is with us, the hypocrisy of European discourse, in which we spend our time explaining to our citizens that Europe wants to carry influence in the world, how we want to contribute to peace in the world.
Commissioner Almunia has described this perfectly.
It is very easy to protest against the appointment of Mr Wolfowitz, and perhaps we should do so, but it should be much easier for all of us to condemn our governments’ inability to coordinate themselves in relation to policies, appointments and criteria for granting funding. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the most pressing problem we face with regard to the World Bank’s policies is its policy on structural adjustment.
A good example of this is water supplies, in that, even though these have been privatised and infrastructure put in place, the price of water has risen so rapidly that the poorest groups in society can no longer afford it.
All this stands in stark contrast to the EU’s development policy goals, which, for example, give water supplies a key role in the fight against poverty and strengthen the negotiating capacity of developing countries in WTO rounds.
This is therefore a key line of attack to take in changing the World Bank’s policies.
This distinction between good performers and bad performers is extremely questionable, and in my opinion the Commission and the Council have a duty to insist that it is made according to clear, transparent and easy-to-understand criteria, if nothing else.
I believe that they also have a duty to urge the World Bank to make far-reaching changes to its poverty reduction strategy, in the framework of UN reform and the Millennium Development Goals. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have to say that I am shocked by the Council statement here today that not a single body of the Council has made any effort whatsoever to reach a common position in relation to our stance in the World Bank, or indeed to use the clout we clearly have financially and in voting terms on the World Bank; despite the fact that every Head of State recently signed up solemnly to the European Constitution, which declares that we want to end world poverty, and despite the fact that each Member State has signed up to the Millennium Development Goals.
My own Member State solemnly declared last year at the United Nations General Assembly that it would reach the 0.7% of GDP by the year 2010.
It is clear that the governments of the Member States of the European Union are more interested in trade than they are in eliminating poverty.
Let me speak for a moment on behalf of the Presidency and not as a representative of the Council.
It is true that, if we were share-holders in a private company, we would be managing our share in that company’s capital very badly.
We are in a different situation, which is political in nature.
I am referring to Article&#160;99 of the Treaty&#160;–&#160;which is also included in the draft Constitution&#160;–&#160;and which provides that Member States may, on the basis of a proposal, improve coordination of their positions within financial institutions and international financial conferences.
The second issue that you raised, which is perhaps linked somewhat to the first, is the reform of the international financial institutions, and in particular the World Bank.
I think that, on this point, the European Union’s role is extremely important.
We do need&#160;–&#160;and this was, in part, the aim of the informal meeting with Mr&#160;Wolfowitz&#160;–&#160;to urge the new President of the World Bank to pursue reform, not only of the operation of the World Bank, but also of its policies.
This brings us back somewhat to the issue of the influence of the EU in the international institutions.
It is certain that, within those institutions, it is necessary to take better account of new balances of power in the world, and to integrate better a number of new international players, new economic powers, without forgetting the developing countries.
The final point relates to development aid policy.
The European Union is the biggest donor, giving more than 50% of development aid.
The most recent Ecofin Council worked on these methods of financing.
By means of the instruments available to it, the Commission tries to influence and guide the policies of the World Bank in line with our objectives in terms of development policy and official development aid.
Secondly, I will repeat what I said in my initial speech and something that has also been taken up by many of you: the need to make progress towards creating a single voice for the European Union in the World Bank and in other international institutions.
Some of you have said that the entry into force of the Constitution will act as a lever for moving towards that objective, and it is true that the entry into force of the Constitution, the single personality for the Union and the political impetus represented by the implementation of the Constitution must help us to progress towards that goal.
Europe wants to be a global player, as Mr Karas has said, but there are certain countries which are going to be global players and which are demanding reforms within the governing bodies of the way in which the different countries and regions of the world are represented in the international financial institutions and, in particular, in the World Bank.
Despite a certain degree of improvement recently, the situation in Kyrgyzstan remains critical.
The new political dynamic is structured according to personal and regional allegiances and the political parties have a purely nominal role.
The presidential election is scheduled for 10&#160;July, and the second round could take place on 24&#160;July.
The risks connected with security and the uncertain economic situation could complicate the presidential campaign.
Indeed, the presidential election campaign is increasingly turning into a competition between the two main candidates on the political scene in the country, namely Mr&#160;Kulov and Mr&#160;Akaev.
Because of this, the stability of the country depends to a considerable extent on a possible rapprochement between these two political leaders.
A compromise between them could include a commitment to respect the election result, which should be the usual case in a democracy, on the condition that the losing candidate can take the position of Prime Minister.
Many political issues will remain on the agenda, in particular constitutional reform, the expected parliamentary elections, the independence of the media and the development of a political system based on the natural development of political parties.
The issue of constitutional reform has already been mentioned in the electoral debate.
Nevertheless, various political players are taking completely opposing positions in this regard.
In general, the situation for ethnic minorities remains a cause for concern.
All the most important international players, including Russia, favour the maintenance of internal security and stability in Kyrgyzstan.
The new leaders of the country have successfully maintained good relations with all their neighbouring countries, particularly with Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan.
The European Commission recently announced its intention to allocate EUR&#160;25&#160;million to Kyrgyzstan in 2005.
As you know, the general situation in Central Asia remains a matter of concern.
A number of factors are creating an atmosphere of uncertainty around the countries in that region.
The political rights of the people are being eroded in the majority of these countries.
Regional cooperation has not reached an adequate level due to the lack of trust and of political will among the states in the region.
Poverty and lack of growth in the countries of Central Asia have exacerbated socio-economic tensions.
The geopolitical proximity of Afghanistan and certain domestic factors have allowed Islamic extremism to spread and, as I have just stated, have increased drug trafficking.
Potential conflicts on the doorstep of the States in the region and between them could be stirred up by the mixing of ethnic minorities on the territory of these countries.
Various specific issues need to be raised with regard to the situation in certain countries in the region.
In Kazakhstan, the parliamentary elections which took place in September&#160;2004 did not meet normally accepted international criteria.
The current President is inclined to call a presidential election before the end of his presidential term in January&#160;2006.
The human rights situation is getting worse.
The programme of reform in the country has not moved forward and poverty has increased further.
There is a real risk in that country that Islamic fundamentalism will spread further and further within the population.
Finally, the situation in Tajikistan is characterised by two main problems: endemic squabbles between provinces and a prolonged economic crisis.
In spite of the problems and difficulties in the region, as I have just detailed, the European Union believes that relations with the region are of vital importance and is prepared to support the transition of these countries to effective market economies and also to functioning democracies.
The Deputy Director-General for external relations of the European Commission recently visited four republics in Central Asia.
In connection with the joint committee, an meeting will be held with the aim of advancing the dialogue on the issue of human rights.
As far as I know, the presidential elections will be held on 10 July.
Following the overthrow of President Akaev, as a result of the mass protests of 24 March, which were caused by the violation of international and OSCE standards in the parliamentary elections of February and March, both the EU’s High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, Mr Solana, and the Commissioner for Foreign Relations, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, who is unfortunately unable to attend this debate, have urged the Republic of Kyrgyzstan to seek a path towards national reconciliation based on the construction of a dialogue and a consensus allowing progress in the process of political reform.
The Republic of Kyrgyzstan has a unique opportunity to establish a genuine multi-party democracy in Central Asia and to eliminate the corruption that contributed so much to the recent crisis.
This opportunity is in the hands of the political leaders of that country, who must demonstrate their firm commitment to true progress in the field of political reforms.
The best way to achieve this is to take measures to guarantee the establishment of a multi-party democracy, respect for human rights and the existence of the rule of law, in accordance with the international commitments made by Kyrgyzstan.
I would like to emphasise that political liberalisation and the preparation and holding of free, fair and transparent elections must be applied to the coming presidential vote; according to our information they are going to take place on 10 July.
Under the umbrella of the OSCE, the Union is preparing, by means of its rapid reaction mechanism, a range of measures for assisting in the elections and in legislative reforms in the electoral field.
The Union is urging Kyrgyzstan to create an environment in which the media and journalists of that country can exercise their rights and freedoms fully, in accordance with international commitments.
I believe that the OSCE is in a position to provide the authorities with advice in this field.
It is important to fight more effectively against corruption in all the countries of Central Asia, since this has been identified as one of the main causes of the events in Kyrgyzstan.
This political dialogue between the European Union and Central Asia can undoubtedly help to change the future of the relations between the two regions, provided that it takes place in a constructive manner.
The Commission takes a positive view of the interest demonstrated by the five countries of Central Asia in this process.
The process of dialogue could focus on concerns that are common to both regions: the fight against terrorism, trafficking in drugs and people, money-laundering, illegal immigration, energy, transport and increasing economic cooperation.
The political dialogue between the Union and Central Asia would facilitate regional integration in the area and would provide a political orientation for the cooperation between the two regions.
The meeting between the Union's and the Foreign Affairs Ministers of Central Asia that will take place at the end of June in Tashkent will be a good opportunity to continue discussing the process of dialogue.
The Union is urging the five countries of Central Asia to persevere in the process of political liberalisation.
The only way for a country to prosper to the benefit of its citizens, to enjoy stability and security, and to significantly promote regional integration, is to ensure that economic development goes hand-in-hand with political liberalisation, the rule of law and the development of an active civil society, one of the essential components of which is freedom of the press.
The Commission is expecting an improvement in cooperation between the European Union and the countries of the Caspian Sea region, as agreed at the ministerial conference on energy and transport that took place in Baku in November of last year.
From a political point of view, energy has become a security issue.
It is in the interests of both regions to cooperate in order to achieve more effective and in-depth integration of our systems and our energy markets.
This strategic importance is also a result of China’s increasing interest in the region, the rise of Muslim fundamentalism and the fact that a number of these countries are getting caught up in the drug trade.
We must face up to the fact that this erosion of democracy, of the rule of law and of human rights is making it increasingly difficult to cooperate with the region, to honour existing partnership and cooperation agreements and to conclude or ratify new agreements.
We must also realise that regimes of this kind are turning into islands of instability rather than stability, as we have seen from the elections in Kyrgyzstan and the earlier events in Ukraine.
As I see it, it is in everyone’s interest for us to reach an agreement with the United States, which no longer merely views the country as a short-term base camp for Afghanistan, and with Russia, whose attitude towards developments of this kind is often influenced by old beliefs.
The developments in Kyrgyzstan are, in themselves, memorable; there is a striking resemblance to what we saw in Ukraine.
While I am on the subject of the elections, the European Union and the OSCE must play a central role in observing them, thereby giving the people of Kyrgyzstan the subsequent certainty that the elections were fair and that the government in power is legitimate and capable of contributing to that country’s development.
Should all of this go to plan, we think that the European Union should also give some thought to how it can help Kyrgyzstan in its new circumstances, for this will have a positive effect on other countries in the region.
Without entering into a long analysis of how Uzbekistan and other countries in Central Asia are doing, I would like to mention the fact that Kyrgyzstan’s neighbouring countries also have major problems about which the European Union should be concerned.
We hope that the Commission and the Council will table further initiatives in this respect. &#160;&#160; I am the head of the delegation to the republics of Central Asia and Mongolia, and shortly we will be going to this region, to Central Asia and, namely, to Kirghizstan.
However, this region is particularly important to the European Parliament and to the European Union for two reasons.
Firstly, some countries in Central Asia, namely, Kazakhstan, is one of the biggest trading partners with the European Union in the field of energy resources.
Therefore, we have to pay particular attention to our regular cooperation, purposeful cooperation in helping those countries to create democracy.
As I have already mentioned before, the visit of the delegation will take place on 14 - 20 May.
I would also like to mention that on the 2 June a meeting with the US representatives on coordination of activities in this region will take place.
I would endorse the comments made by the previous speakers, as I too believe that our primary concern should be to acknowledge the key role played by the OSCE in Central Asia.
We should not forget that the OSCE also does a great deal in other fields, such as support for civil society or measures to protect minorities.
We should particularly welcome the OSCE’s activities in this region, especially those relating to election observation and preparations for the forthcoming elections, due to be held in Kyrgyzstan in June 2005.
The aim of these activities is to ensure that the elections can be held in accordance with international and European standards.
I should also like to say how much I welcome the political changes that have taken place in Kyrgyzstan, as they will also provide us with an opportunity to clarify our foreign policy goals.
Elections held in Kyrgyzstan were rigged, following which the president was forced from power by popular protests, with Bishkek the next to be hit by the domino effect that had already seen the governments in Tbilisi and Kiev overthrown.
Yet at the same time, it is also becoming apparent that there was a strong social dimension to the revolution in Kyrgyzstan, which was very much an uprising against the rule of an oligarchy that had come into being during privatisation.
This has in fact been a common phenomenon in all post-socialist countries, where groups have existed that were or are at the centre of political power, whether as a result of their past contacts, or their ethnic or party-political ties to those currently in power.
The members of these groups made undreamt-of fortunes from privatisation, which not only caused major rifts in society, but also gave them the necessary means and the desire to enter into politics.
This uprising took place in the country with the most liberal regime in Central Asia.
In this connection, I should like to reiterate my call for us to ensure that EU policy reflects the fact that the European Union is an institution that upholds the ideals of the rule of law and social justice.
After all, throwing off the German yoke cleared the way for decades of oppression by the Soviet Union, which was endured also by Central Asia.
This must end, for indeed, all Central Asian countries make provision in their constitutions for religious freedom.
I would urge the Council and Commission to support those countries in their fight against Muslim fundamentalism, while also calling them to account about the problems related to religious freedom, the requirement that churches be registered, and particularly the situation of the non-registered Baptist communities, as well as the wrongs committed against Valery Pak and others. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;I should like to start by congratulating the presidency on its excellent work drawing up a detailed analysis of the situation in Central Asia, and in particular in Kyrgyzstan.
If I may, I should like to make a number of additional comments regarding the situation in that country.
Monitoring of the pre-election situation and of the elections themselves should be particularly focused on those aspects of the electoral process which were a direct cause of the protests in Kyrgyzstan and which led to the coup, such as the exclusion of candidates and vote buying.
If I may, I should like to make one further comment on the basis of my own experience of public life in Poland.
The support provided by the EU for these changes should therefore make allowance for this fact, and it should be focused on civil society.
I am in favour of the EU providing financial support, but this should be conditional on compliance with criteria relating to human rights and the rule of law. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I still have vivid memories of the visit I made to Kyrgyzstan a few years ago.
The new Georgian and Ukrainian governments are going to great lengths to ensure that their countries pursue policies of independence from Moscow.
The situation in the country remains far from stable, as evidenced by the recent assassination attempt on Mr&#160;Erkinbayev, who is running for president.
Current events in Kyrgyzstan cannot be viewed in black and white terms, even though some Western observers appear to wish that this were the case.
It is essential for the EU to play a more active role in this part of the world, and it must not leave the peoples involved to the mercy of the Russians and the Americans.
That said, we should of course cooperate with both of the latter on this issue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased that the Commission has cleared up the misunderstanding about the Council’s communication with regard to the election date: it is 10 July.
Time will tell whether the revolution is the same, or whether a number of leaders have brought another process in motion.
The situation in Kyrgyzstan is significantly different: its democracy is divided along ethnic and regional lines, which does not, in itself, make matters worse, nor does it alter the fact that the European Union would do well to invest in Central Asia.
At the moment, too little is being invested and the striking thing is that until recently, the two poorest countries, Mongolia –a country deserving credit for the absence of any problems in the areas of democracy and human rights – and Kyrgyzstan, were doing best of all.
I call upon the Council and the Commission, together with Parliament, to invest in the elections by sending a solid observation delegation on 10 July and by supporting the OSCE, to ensure that the elections go well.
It is a challenge for Europe to invest more in Kyrgyzstan, particularly in the areas of education and economic cooperation.
I should like to find out from the Commission what it intends to do about increasing repression in Kazakhstan, including the recent closure of the biggest opposition newspaper and the imprisonment of its journalist Irina Petrusheva in Russia at the request of the authorities in Kazakhstan. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, many things have been said in the previous speeches to which I will not return.
Nevertheless, I would like to stress the importance of three points.
First, economic and social difficulties were a major trigger for the events in Kyrgyzstan.
Only a stable, legitimate government will be able to successfully complete the reforms that are necessary to improve the situation of Kyrgyz citizens.
Next, the stakes in relation to human rights and fundamental freedoms constitute another crucial aspect of the current situation.
The European Union must satisfy itself that the democratisation process is based on true political pluralism and also allows the media and NGOs to operate freely and independently.
The cooperation projects launched by the OSCE and as part of the TACIS programme must be supported and encouraged.
Finally, I think we need to broaden our thinking in relation to the events in Kyrgyzstan to a regional perspective encompassing the whole of Central Asia.
The democratisation of Kyrgyzstan could thus be seen as a hope, an example that the other countries of Central Asia, suffering from violations of human rights, can follow.
The recent toughening of legislation aimed at NGOs and opposition groups calls for an attitude of attentiveness and of particular vigilance by the European Union faced with the changing political situation in the region. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Kyrgyzstan is a small, central Asian Muslim republic of incredible natural beauty and proud nomadic traditions.
It has recently been in the news, following the 27&#160;February parliamentary elections, when election irregularities caused widespread protest, starting in the south of the country.
Yesterday, on a state visit to Georgia, President&#160;Bush called for freedom and democracy everywhere in the Communist world.
Kyrgyzstan is a poor, mountainous country with a predominantly agricultural economy, but it has carried out significant market reforms under ex-President Akaev.
But border disputes between Kyrgyzstan and its neighbours are delaying the process of frontier delimitation with Tajikistan in particular, but also with Uzbekistan.
Kyrgyzstan also serves as a transit point to south-west Asian narcotic markets and narcotics bound for Russia and the rest of Europe.
Even though it has since been amended four times, it would still appear to be a potentially good basis for further democratic changes in the country.
Yet although according to the Constitution the judicial system is officially independent and responsible for ensuring that human rights are observed in the country, observers have made it clear that not enough reforms have taken place within it, that corruption is still endemic and that judges are not paid enough.
The European Union can and should provide the financial support it always does in order to reverse these negative trends.
Furthermore, it can and should provide its customary moral support by being present wherever it is needed and wherever democracy must be supported and the rule of law reestablished. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the new millennium appears to have ushered in a wave of change, particularly in the successor states of the former Soviet Union.
Of course, the public also hopes that such change will result in an economic upturn and bring prosperity.
After all, Kyrgyzstan wants to prove that it is capable of pressing ahead with reconstruction measures under its own steam.
The fact that a wave of revolution of this kind could spill over at any time should also give us pause for thought, as it would come as no surprise if this trend were to continue in other countries with similar conditions, such as Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan.
I would also endorse the comment made by one of the previous speakers to the effect that this area must not be left to the sole care of the USA and Russia. &#160;&#160; Following the political upheaval in Kyrgyzstan, which is not entirely comparable with the developments in Ukraine and Georgia, the key causes of instability in the economic, social and other areas are still in place.
Of course the new government cannot resolve the accumulated problems by the presidential elections on 10 July, nor indeed for several months after that.
I myself experienced the revolution as a special envoy of the chairman-in-office of the OSCE, which in my opinion is working there quite successfully with the support of the European Union and the United Nations.
And after 10 July there will of course be an urgent need for long-term assistance from the international community to implement reform in the political, economic and social spheres.
I think that in this relationship, as Mr Brok already stated, we also need to take into consideration the trans-Atlantic and Russian dimension.
All the members spoke earlier of the serious problems faced by Kyrgyzstan.
The region of Central Asia must not constitute new ground for conflict between the major powers – the United States, Russia and China – for strategic control of energy resources.
The strategy report adopted by the European Union in 2002, for the period from 2002 to 2006, for the countries in the area needs revising and enhancing, taking account of the new situation which is arising.
I believe and I call on the Commission to start preparing a new strategy report for the area right now, without waiting for 2006.
More active involvement on the part of the UN is considered important in this direction. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the positive domino effect that began with the democratic awakening in Ukraine and Georgia has now spread to a third country.
What has happened in Kyrgyzstan is another good example of the way in which the post-Soviet is falling from power, even though the events in these three countries are not necessarily comparable.
The Akayev regime collapsed without any outside intervention, as a result of a spontaneous popular uprising.
The public’s patience had quite simply been stretched too far by such things as electoral fraud and the enormous fortunes amassed by a nepotistic political family that treated the country as though it were its own private property.
The much-needed action taken by the OSCE and the ODIHR, an OSCE agency currently headed by an Austrian, is the only external factor that can be said to have had any influence on events.
Kazakhstan is much larger, richer and a great deal more important in geopolitical terms than Kyrgyzstan, which, although scenic, is only a small country. &#160;&#160; As has already become apparent from this debate, there are two trends that can be observed in Kyrgyzstan, and indeed throughout Central Asia.
The first of these is a deterioration in the political situation and an erosion of human rights and civil liberties.
The second is the growing strategic importance of the area as a whole, a far from negligible cause of which is the energy resources located in countries such as Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan.
The second area, and one that has not attracted so much attention in this House, is support for regional cooperation, or in other words for the Central Asian states in their fight against terrorism and drug smuggling, and in energy cooperation and water resource use, for example.
To put it another way, I should like to know in what way the Commission believes that it and the European Union can support this regional cooperation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as we must also discuss the resolution before us, and since I believe that no one has done so up to now, it would seem to me that the resolution is realistic and objective.
It is also true that, when we met with Askar Akayev in Bishkek two years ago with the European Union delegation, he appeared sincere and convincing in asserting that his objective was a more democratic and transparent State.
We perhaps believed him back then, but that is certainly no longer the case.
A further issue pointed out in the resolution concerns the in-fighting within the opposition that would currently appear to hold power, united solely in its fight against the Akayev regime, whilst its democratic credentials are tainted by its former collaboration with the Akayev dictatorship.
For this reason, point 4 of the resolution is extremely significant, as by hoping for a substantial reform of the constitution, it warns against the dangers of a system of power taking over that is similar to its forerunner, differing only by way of the political figures involved.
The most conspicuous example of this in Central Asia is Kyrgyzstan.
It seems that motions for a resolution amending the electoral process and the work of the media are leading in the wrong direction and that the draft bill on national security has been criticised by the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe at an open forum.
This is especially regrettable, as the international community has gladly acknowledged Kazakhstan’s progress in social and economic restructuring and in ensuring peace and harmony between different nationalities and denominations so far.
We were filled with hope to see Kazakhstan be the first country from the NIS region to deserve the honourable and responsible appointment of Presidency.
This is, perhaps, what makes it even more regrettable that the opposition paper, , has been shut down for a bogus reason, and the potential opposition candidate, Zharmakhan Tuyakbai, has suffered brutal physical attacks twice within less than a month.
Mr&#160;Maat has said that these elections are scheduled for 10&#160;July.
We all have an interest in seeing greater stability in this region, which first of all means that the aspirations of these countries to consolidate their fairly recent independence must be supported.
I think that, in this context, the European Union can play an important part in maintaining the necessary balance between Russia, on the one hand, and the United States, and possibly China, on the other.
As several speakers have stressed, stability is all the more vital because these States are still internally fragile and are consequently particularly prone to the threats of terrorism and fundamentalism.
This will only be possible if we help these States to promote economic growth.
For that, of course, will not only be crucial in terms of the aspirations of the citizens of that region; the stability, prosperity and democratisation of the States of that region will also undoubtedly be a very important element of our own security.
Firstly, the elections of 10 July are very important.
In any event — as I also mentioned in my initial speech — the mechanisms available to us have been used and EUR 1.3 million has been allocated to ensuring that the electoral process takes place properly.
It would also be desirable, if there is not yet any decision in this regard, for a delegation from this Parliament to attend those elections as observers and to provide a guarantee, or try to improve the conditions, for the popular elections to be carried out with every democratic safeguard.
I would also like to make a second comment on the need for a regional strategy, a regional approach.
Its main objectives are to promote stability and security in the region, sustainable economic development, prioritising in particular the reduction of poverty and the defence of human rights.
In implementing that strategy, given that one of the European Union's main interests in the region, from an economic point of view, involves energy resources, the meeting of energy ministers that took place in November last year is very important, and we believe that we must continue to progress in that direction.
Finally, with regard to the particular case mentioned by Mr Maat in his speech — the case of violation of human rights — we do not currently have precise information about the case he has referred to.
Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 54, which is part of Block 1, provides for the insertion into Annex 5 of additional tables, to be considered supplemental to table 22 in the Council’s common position: not alternative, but supplemental!
Your presence here in our House is evidence of your interest in European integration and the important role being played by your country in this process.
Your visit has an historical link to the visit of your father, Grand Duke Jean, on 22 November 1990, almost fifteen years ago now.
The European Union then had twelve Member States and the European Union had 340 million citizens.
Your country, Luxembourg, has always been a loyal and committed advocate of European integration, and your Presidency has demonstrated once again that the so-called ‘small’ countries, small in size but great in history, are able to hold great presidencies and provide additional for Community integration, thanks to the work of intelligent politicians who have made themselves constantly available to this Parliament.
This is a magnificent moment in the history of Europe and it carries the name of your country.
Mr&#160;President, your kind words just now about my country have touched me deeply.
Along with the Grand Duchess, and on behalf of all those who have accompanied us on this visit, I thank you for welcoming me with such warmth. 1990 – 2005: what changes, I would even say what upheavals, have taken place during that time, including in this wonderful town of Strasbourg!
The fact remains that over the last few months, on the occasion of the ceremonies marking the 60th anniversary of the end of the war, we have been happy to remember that what brought this venture to fruition was a desire to make war between us impossible in the future.
Like you, Mr&#160;President, I went to Auschwitz where, with a number of Heads of State and Government, we wept in silence, remembering the millions of innocent victims who died or were mutilated in the most appalling conditions.
I would also like to note the presence that day &#160;so significant&#160; of the leaders of the political groups of this Parliament.
Against this background, I am delighted to have the opportunity today to share with you some reflections that, for obvious reasons, go beyond the programme of our Presidency.
Mr&#160;President, my considerations lead me first of all to remember our achievements.
We have abolished our internal borders, opening up to 450&#160;million citizens a single area of freedom and security.
In accordance with their alliances, Member States have intervened autonomously in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
In Afghanistan, the European presence is essential in driving the country’s transition to a true democracy.
In the face of globalisation, we have always endeavoured to make Europe a centre of excellence in relation to the economic giants of the United States, Japan, China, India and Brazil.
In parallel with that, we have been able to make the motto ‘strength through unity’ our own with respect to appearing in the world as a credible reference in terms of democracy and of solidarity with developing countries.
Let me mention here that the European Parliament’s role in achieving these successes has been decisive in many respects.
We cannot fail to notice that, in the new Member States, the freshness and enthusiasm about belonging to this large family are still obvious.
The debates now taking place in the Member States concerning ratification of the Constitutional Treaty are very revealing in that regard.
Nevertheless, in the absence of a credible alternative, nobody has yet been able to suggest another model.
Some philosophers, such as the Frenchman Marcel Gauchet, tell us that it is due to the times we are living in, in other words that our era is undergoing a paradigm shift.
On this subject, I would like to recall a comment by Michel Rocard.
Let us remember that, right from the start of European integration, nothing would have been possible without the combination of a heartfelt vision and competence.
The European adventure can only come together around peoples and nations, a translation of our great diversity.
Each of these nations represents a territory with its own beauty and richness, but also with its own scars that time has etched on our memories.
But above all, how can we bring together the conditions for new growth?
In order to convince our citizens, let us remind ourselves that the well-being and prosperity of a people cannot be assessed purely in terms of GDP.
We must therefore take care that we do not construct a Europe that is beneficial for some but where, at the same time, social exclusion, violence in all its forms, unemployment and lack of interest in the conservation of our environment proliferate.
This debate can obviously not be limited to Parliament, as, moreover, you quite appropriately hoped in your resolution on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
As that Treaty states, we need to promote, with the help of civil organisations and of our societies, the active involvement of citizens in the discussions on ratification.
I can only hope that the honourable Members of this Parliament will get directly involved and that, going beyond political loyalties, a single ambition will emerge: to make Europe the author of its own history.
I will simply repeat what my father said on this subject in 1990: ‘You are the elected representatives of our countries.
In contrast, the fact that my country, although modest in size, is at the centre of the EU and firmly embedded in this important forum has often been decisive in our moves to modernise and diversify our economy.
I would like to conclude by leaving you to consider a comment by Milan Kundera, who said this very soon after the fall of Communism: ‘It often seems to me,’ he said, ‘that the well-known culture of Europe conceals another unknown culture, that of the small nations.[...] It is assumed that the small nations necessarily imitate the large ones.
There is also a series of amendments aimed at defining the role of the professional associations dealing with the recognition of qualifications and at setting up a single committee for this purpose.
We are sincere supporters of a flexible and open internal market in the EU.
Unfortunately, the directive takes insufficient account of national needs and basic conditions.
The system for recognising qualifications will have to adapt to changes that may occur in the world of work or in education systems, in accordance with the ultraliberal philosophy that drives the European institutions.
In this spirit, the Commission has defined a very peculiar social policy which encourages the training and mobility of workers under minimal training conditions that are supposed to ensure greater adaptability to labour markets.
On the other hand, the regulatory and professional bodies have expressed a number of concerns regarding the future of certain occupations and the quality of training given in some countries, in particular with regard to public health.
This principle is not disputed.
We must avoid mixing it up with the infamous ‘Bolkestein’ proposal for a directive, the aim of which is to create a true single market in services and which we will discuss here in the coming months to amend it where necessary.
With regard to the amendments submitted to us in the context of the draft recommendation for second reading, I share the concerns of the craftsmen in my country, who are worried that the professional qualifications required for establishment will be devalued, which is incompatible with the Lisbon Strategy and the importance of training stressed therein.
The legitimate concern to create a true functioning single market must not lead to levelling down.
I agree with the rapporteur that we must foster the setting up of producer organisations in regions where such activity is very low, as in the case of Portugal.
We also welcome ‘the introduction of an effective system for managing market crises in order to prevent abandonment of the sector in the face of major price collapses’.
In this context, my country should seek to protect an area that is beyond the interests of one specific professional class; it is of interest to the nation as a whole.
In this context, I voted in favour of this report, because I feel that this proposal meets the expectations of the producer organisations, and because I advocate a suitable model for the support scheme for processed products. &#160;&#160; – I voted against the removal of the opt-out possibility so that an individual worker may work more than eight hours overtime a week because of practical reasons according to the needs of the workers and the Maltese industry.
On this there is a consensus between all social partners in our country.
I am in favour that we limit working time and that a better balance be created between working time and the family.
However you have to understand that in our country there exists no renting market, while land is scarce and very expensive.
A great number of these families are in a situation where it is not because they want to, but because the market so dictates, where they depend in a substantial way on the income derived from their overtime not for capricious spending but to satisfy these commitments.
The reason was that, after taking into account informal meetings with the largest trade unions in my country, it emerged that, at present, Malta is not in an economic position to be able to implement the directive on working time.
As explained by my colleague who has just addressed this House, the lower-income social classes would be unable to honour their commitments unless their incomes were supplemented through overtime and other allowances. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked a representative sample of the 20&#160;million senior citizens from Italy, a large number of whom voted for me to be here as a Member of the European Parliament to represent them, how I should vote on the reduction in working time.
Currently it is possible to opt-out of the 48-hour week by way of either an individual, or a group, signing an agreement with the employer.
Amendment 37 was listed as, ‘Proposal to reject the Commission proposal’.
However, this victory cannot disguise the social backward step that remains in the text voted on today.
In particular: 1) the opt-out will stay in place for three years 2) the annualisation of working time will no longer be negotiated by the social partners.
The Constitutional Treaty aims to introduce more social dialogue, but the current directive reduces it.
In addition, this directive affects one of the fundamental achievements of the battles of the last century: the reduction in working time, and the regulation of the working day.
It will eliminate the current opt-out, and introduce strict new conditions on how ‘on call’ time can be counted towards the 48-hour week.
Proper regulation of working time is a cornerstone for social Europe.
The implementation date of 2010 gives both sides of industry time to negotiate new agreements that take account of the 48-hour week.
Secondly, even if the opt-out which allows Member States to deviate from the working time provisions will lapse in time (three years), this does not prevent Member States, at their request, from having working time stipulated on the basis of individual contracts and thus from by-passing social guarantees of negotiated agreements for three years.
Although Parliament describes stand-by time (on-call duty) as working time, the inactive part of stand-by time can be calculated in a ‘specific way’ (via a collective agreement or statutory arrangement), without there being guarantees for the workers involved.
However in Malta many workers work long hours because they need to do so either to make financial ends meet or to fulfil other commitments.
This position enjoys broad consensus in Malta, including the trade unions.
A wide spectrum of our population do not see the report as being beneficial for Malta.
Just as it was right to bring in the minimum wage to combat the problem of poverty pay, it is now time to call time on excessive working hours, which see workers bullied and exploited, fuel stress and other health problems, and which damage family life.
This clause, allowing certain Member States to push the legal working week beyond 48 hours, worsened social dumping in Europe.
In a Europe without borders, French companies bound to the 35-hour week will not be able to compete with their competitors based in European countries that make use of the opt-out clause.
The rapporteur, Mr&#160;Cercas, however, is attempting to demonstrate the European Parliament’s intention to secure abandonment of the opt-out, a real poison for the future of European social law, within three years.
Nevertheless, I cannot accept that, in return, he is allowing the 48-hour maximum to be calculated over a 12-month period and is allowing working time to be calculated and annualised as employers have demanded, as well as reducing the extent to which time on call is taken into account.
This compromise is not satisfactory and is in no way a step forward as we have the right to expect in the European Union.
The maximum 48-hour working week as we know it is, in fact, already archaic.
The current working week is around 40 hours, with the large majority of workers wanting an even shorter working week.
It will, however, have to ensure a high level of health and safety protection for workers, offer businesses greater flexibility in how they manage working time, and allow greater reconciliation of work and family life.
I feel that our contribution should allow the reference periods to be lengthened.
I am in favour of annualisation, which can also affect workers and which will enable us to accommodate fluctuations in demand, particularly seasonal fluctuations.
With regard to on-call time, I could have lived with the Commission’s proposal respecting the subsidiarity principle, because it stipulates that the inactive part of on-call time is not considered working time, unless national law or a collective convention insists otherwise.
Finally, I believe that keeping the opt-out is at odds with the aim of the directive. &#160;&#160; Working time is something that lends itself to national legislation and that the EU should not regulate.
There is, however, now already a directive at EU level that regulates working time, and the present directive is designed to update the existing directive.
The Liberal Party has therefore voted in favour of ensuring that individual rules in the working time directive are as constructive as possible.
We have defended the principle of subsidiarity and a flexible labour market in which employees’ health is simultaneously protected.
The EPLP understands the adjustment difficulties faced by the United Kingdom and others, but thanks to certain flexible provisions in the report, such as the extended reference period of 12 months, these difficulties are overcome.
These landmark rulings have implications for the NHS and member states' health care systems, but by allowing member states themselves to calculate this part of working time, the compromise package we have achieved is sufficiently flexible.
I personally have confidence in a model that, first and foremost, upholds the subsidiarity principle, giving the Member States sufficient leeway to adapt the rules on working time to their own economic situation.
Working time comes under the heading of employment law, which is adopted in every democratic country by a parliament that represents all parties involved in the employment process.
In this instance, Parliament’s attempts at justification through references to the Lisbon Strategy are the height of hypocrisy. &#160;&#160; .– The parliamentary group of the Communist Party of Greece will be voting against the 'organisation of working time' directive, because it is a vengeful attack by the EU, the urban governments and big business on the rights of the working class.
The aim of the proposals by the Commission and the rapporteur is to undermine working time by introducing two new terms – active on-call time and inactive on-call time – and more flexible working time in order to increase the profits of big business.
The definition of working time and the length of the working day are matters which have been the subject of class-based conflict between the working class and big business for many years.
When, therefore, the proposal concerning the opt-out – a rule, moreover, that is not applied in Sweden - was voted down and the proposal to calculate average working time over a period longer than four months was rejected, I thought it right to vote against the proposal as a whole. &#160;&#160; That concludes the explanations of vote.
You will recall that I made a statement on the end of World War II in Europe last Monday, a day that coincided with Europe Day, in a month of May in which, furthermore, a year has passed since the accession of ten new countries.
I shall firstly give them the floor, as is customary. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, 60 years have passed since the end of the Second World War.
Remembering 8 May 1945, the date that marked the surrender of the Third Reich, is a profound duty, and I should like to congratulate the European Parliament on not failing to remember 8 May 1945 here today.
When we set about remembering 8 May 1945, the surrender of German democracy in 1933 and the dreadful period separating those two dates, as the younger generation, we must remember with a great deal of restraint, at least as regards the generation of men and women involved.
People who, like me, were born after the Second World War – in 1954, 1955 and later – must remember with restraint because we were not witness first-hand to the tragedy that descended upon the European continent.
The duty of remembrance is a profound duty.
By this, though, I mean the defeat of fascism and of National Socialism, as well as the end of democratic capitulation in the face of the terrible events that had taken place since 1933.
The restored freedom at the start of May 1945, however, was not enjoyed in equal measure throughout Europe.
Comfortably installed in our old democracies, we were able to live in freedom in Western Europe after the Second World War, and in a state of restored freedom whose price we well know.
The other countries of Central and Eastern Europe did not experience that extraordinary capacity for self-determination that we were able to experience in our part of Europe.
This post-war Europe which, without the War, would never have become the Europe that we know today; this Europe, risen from the ashes of the War, would never have come into existence if it had not been for the so-called founding fathers of Europe – people such as Schuman, Bech, Adenauer, de Gasperi and others – who, from the post-war phrase ‘war, never again’ gave birth to hope, prayer and a programme for the first time in the history of the continent.
Today, we must remember with emotion and gratitude those people who had the courage to say yes after having first said no.
We say nothing against the will of the people.
I should like to pay tribute to those people, whether forgotten or anonymous, who made it possible to create what was created after the Second World War.
Let us take pride in being able to say this to the European Parliament, the elected representative of the people of Europe, whose Members are the heirs of those who were able to say no when no needed to be said, and of those who were able to say yes when yes was the only remaining option.
Let us show our gratitude towards those who said no when no needed to be said and let us take pride in all those who, today, are saying yes to a great Europe, and to a Europe that has seen its history and its geography reconciled.
Let us take pride in those who do not wish for Europe to become a free trade area, and let us take pride in those who, like us and like millions of others, believe that Europe is a complex continent that deserves more than a free trade area.
We are here to remember, to acknowledge and to build.
The greatest worldwide conflict was the source of mixed feelings among all those who survived it; a source of relief for many, a source of emptiness, for sure, and often a source of fear of the future, fear that the post-war world might not be better – and might in fact be worse – than what went before.
What some have referred to as the ‘European civil war’ was witness to the inhumanity that man is capable of visiting on man.
We Europeans often feel proud of the great achievements of our civilisation and our culture, of the great triumphs of the European spirit, yet we must humbly acknowledge that some of the worst horrors that the human race has ever perpetrated took place in Europe during the 20th century.
We remember those who did not have that chance, those for whom the light of freedom went out almost as soon as they saw it; those for whom one nightmare was replaced by another.
The first step in the recreation of the European family must be a partnership between France and Germany.
There can be no revival of Europe without [...] a spiritually great Germany’.
Churchill was right.
We should remember the extraordinary determination shown by Robert Schuman, Jean Monnet, Konrad Adenauer, Alcide de Gasperi and others and what they achieved, reconstructing rather than retreating into retribution.
As the Commission said in its declaration of 9 May: for millions, true freedom was only to come with the fall of the Berlin Wall, not the end of the Second World War.
Sixty years ago here on this continent we experienced the Holocaust.
About 30 years ago several countries in southern Europe, including my own, were still living under dictatorships.
What European leaders of the 1940s and 1950s constructed was a light and a magnet: a light through dark years for those who had no prospect of the peace, prosperity and stability that other Europeans enjoyed, and an extraordinary, powerful force of attraction for those peoples and countries that were breaking free and saw the European Community – as it was called then – as a catalyst for the transformation of their countries.
For my generation, Europe was always synonymous with democracy.
I am convinced that implementing this tremendous project, which will soon incorporate 27 countries and 500 million people, will take place in spite of the stormy periods that will inevitably occur from time to time.
This implementation sometimes takes place so peacefully, however, that we run the risk of forgetting what preceded it.
From now on, the accounts of murderous conflicts ravaging Europe appear to be confined to the history books.
They were making the headlines as recently as 10 years ago, however, when massacres were taking place in certain Balkan countries.
Their fears are serious: the fear of finding or not finding a job, and the fear of a more competitive world that is sometimes perceived as a challenge.
The fear, however, is that of finding or not finding a job, and not the fear of finding or not finding one’s own country.
The European example – the Europe of the Six, of the Ten, of the Twelve, of the Fifteen and now of the Twenty-five – has been the true driving force behind democratisation in Southern Europe, in Latin America and later in Central and Eastern Europe.
The spirit of democracy and modernity in our societies is testament to our capacity to reinvent our continent.
From its internal market to its external borders, from the promotion of internal cohesion to the protection of sustainable development and the environment, from the solidarity dimension to that of justice in all four corners of the globe – as we are not seeking a Europe that is closed in on itself – the European Union is constantly building Europe.
Ratifying the Constitution will strengthen these undertakings and will lay the foundations for ever more significant advances in the future.
A barbaric war had claimed the lives of over 55 million people, millions more – untold millions – were uprooted, millions were made refugees or driven away from their homes; parents lost sons, wives lost husbands, children lost fathers.
In 1945, many of Europe’s cities were laid waste; its economy was in ruins.
Where responsibility for the outbreak of the Second World War lay is not a matter of doubt: the illicit National Socialist regime in Germany whipped up its racial delusions and claims to power into an inferno of aggression against all the other peoples of Europe.
The attempted extermination of the Jews was to be the worst of its crimes.
National Socialist totalitarianism led the whole of Europe into ruination.
When the end came in 1945, the German people themselves were among its victims, at a time when victors were thin on the ground.
Far-sighted American support made it possible for new life to resume in the west of the continent, enjoying freedom, respect for human dignity, democracy and a market economy founded upon the law.
It was Winston Churchill, as we have just been reminded, who sketched out the vision of a United States of Europe – and let me add that Europe could never be complete without Great Britain.
Without French magnanimity, Europe would again have remained no more than an insubstantial idea – and let me add that, now that the European Union is making another new beginning with a single constitution, Europe in future, too, will need France, more than ever, to be constructively involved.
They had to learn from bitter experience that peace without freedom amounts to only partial liberation from the yoke of totalitarian injustice.
Although National Socialist totalitarianism was vanquished in 1945, Stalinist totalitarianism divided Europe and imposed its unjust rule on the peoples of Central, Eastern and South-Eastern Europe.
Hope, though, did not desert the less happy survivors of the Second World War – the hope of a shared Europe, intellectually, morally and politically renewed, with the prospect of prosperity for all its citizens.
Having been a member of this House ever since the first direct elections to it in 1979, I see our debate today – a debate that we are holding together in a dignified fashion, and with the gravity it deserves – as a time to rejoice that Europe is now united, a time of rejoicing, too, in the presence among us of Members from eight Central European countries, who enjoy the same rights as we do.
After 1989, Europe could again begin to breathe with both lungs, to quote the words used by that great Pope of immortal memory, John Paul II.
The establishment of the European Union with common values centred upon human dignity, the supranational union in a free community with its own binding laws were the consequent response to the opportunity presented by the end of the war.
European unification is a project of peace and freedom.
The current debate on the European Constitution is a great opportunity for us to remind ourselves of these fundamental things, because, for the first time in European history, our values and ideals are set down in a constitution.
That sums up the motivation behind building a new Europe, a Europe that repudiates totalitarianism, nationalist arrogance, and egalitarian inhumanity, a Europe that refuses to allow any one of its state to dominate the others, a Europe that affirms the unmistakeable dignity of every individual human being, the balancing of the interests of social groups and peoples, a Europe of respect and diversity, from which diversity, indeed, it derives its strength, a Europe of democracy and law.
We want – as we must – to complete this work of internal reconciliation, as we also wish to be reconciled with the people of Russia and the peoples in the Russian Federation.
In the period of our history that is now beginning, Europe, though, will have to seek reconciliation in the world and with the world around us to a greater extent than ever before.
We can be grateful to the Members of this House – and I wish to thank my colleague Elmar Brok in particular – who have drafted a resolution that will, tomorrow, express our values.
In this hour, we remember all the victims of the Second World War, and all the suffering and destruction.
We recall how much peace and freedom belong together and the need for our work to serve mankind, not least in promoting dialogue between cultures.
Where this dialogue with the world bears fruit, we will defend the values that sustain us on our way into the future.
The group on whose behalf I speak includes MEPs from Germany, representing the country that wanted this war, that prepared for this war, that waged it and was merciless in organising it.
My group includes a lawyer who defended victims of the Franco regime, and another Member who was a victim himself, having been tortured in the dungeons of the secret police.
Some of my group colleagues are from Portugal and Greece, men and women who – like you, Mr President of the Commission – in their younger days rejoiced to see the dictators driven from their countries.
My group includes my friend Józef Pinior, who will be the next to speak for the group, and who spent time being tortured in Communist jails for being a trade unionist and a social democrat.
For me to be able to speak on behalf of all these people is a privilege, a privilege I owe to the European Union.
It is something for which we can all be grateful to the men and women who had to take on responsibility, after 8 May 1945, for the work of unification that they achieved.
As the President-in-Office of the Council said, on that day, 8 May 1945, lessons had to be learned, and the right ones were.
The history of the European Union, the post-8 May 1945 history of Europe, is a success story.
It took on shape and form, forms in which we work today, from which we benefit today, forms that enable me to represent Members of the Jewish faith, that make it possible for my group to include Muslim MEPs, for there to be in my group Members who have suffered, and those who have learned from those who suffered.
It is unique in the history of the human race for a state to define itself and its purpose in terms of the extermination of other peoples and races.
If we remember them, the Jewish people remain, as do the Roma and the Sinti, as do those who were murdered for political reasons, as do also the people with disabilities.
On such a day, let us remember Anne Frank.
Sophie Scholl was a young German student, whose only crime was to be an upright person, and who was beheaded at the age of 18 for distributing leaflets denouncing the Nazi regime.
I also think of Krzysztof Baczynski, a young Polish poet, shot dead in Warsaw by a German marksman.
Let me repeat: three names which we call to mind, and which stand as representing all those whom we should remember.
The continuance to this very day of this work of unification, which is still overcoming division, still holding racism in contempt, still excluding from the community of democrats all anti-Semites, racists and Nazis, still holding these criminals up to scorn, still enumerating their deeds, and still remembering them – that is the basis, the moral and intellectual foundation of our European Union, the Union built up by our fathers and our fathers’ fathers.
It is now 60 years old, having, in principle, been born on 8 May 1945.
That was in 1624, yet for over 300 years peoples and states continued to wage war across our continent.
It took two bloody wars and a continent in ruins to teach us that a united Europe is worth more than the sum of its parts.
Not all of us were able even then to realise our aspirations for peace and freedom.
Let us rejoice that Europe is united in peace and that we can sit together in the same debating chamber with a set of common supranational institutions of government deciding on matters of mutual concern.
As we mark the 60th anniversary of a lasting peace, we see that Europe has come a long way, through gradual steps to build solidarity between our peoples.
There is no doubt that the European Union has been a success: have become part of our common legislative and social fabric.
A peaceful and prosperous Europe was always based on the premise that strength lay in convergence and shared mandates.
The revolutions in central and eastern Europe have lifted from our shoulders the yoke of Yalta, but we are confronted with new challenges.
The challenge, for example, of feeding, clothing and housing a growing world population, while more and more are pushed into migration by war or hunger or sheer desperation.
None of these challenges can be faced by our countries acting alone.
And work together, too, with the United States and Canada, to whose people we owe so much and whose values by and large we share, not only to confront with them common challenges but to make them feel more comfortable with a new and more powerful Europe.
We can ratify the European Constitution and put our faith in democracy and accountable government, or we can continue to leave too much power in unelected hands.
Cooperation is the way forward, enabling us to face global challenges together.
In 1933, my father was a lawyer; he defended the Red Assistance and he should have been arrested.
That is why our remembrance – my remembrance – is paved with horrors.
The horror of Auschwitz, the that demonstrated the worst that mankind is capable of.
Kolima, the that demonstrated what the most barbaric political ideology is capable of doing.
Oradour-sur-Glane, which demonstrated what a military occupation can give rise to.
There were the massacres of the colonial wars, and Srebrenica, which took place 10 years ago now, to the very day.
To quote a song familiar to some: there is no supreme saviour, neither god nor king nor leader nor Communism nor Neo-liberalism.
There is only one small and very fragile thing that many people mock and which is simply called ‘democracy’.
My dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, it is always either easy or difficult for a German to talk about ‘the war, 60&#160;years on’.
Germany, though, experienced both National Socialism, with all its barbarity, and Communist totalitarianism.
My concern is not to set out to the House what Europe’s political tasks are, for we can do that day in and day out.
It is because we are obligated to truth, because we believe in Europe, that we all, when shaping and organising the Europe of the future, have to remember what Europe once was and what it must not be allowed to be again.
When an institution such as ours evokes that founding event of Europe and the world today that was the victory of all the allies – US, British and Soviet of the anti-Hitler coalition, every word counts.
Without choosing to overlook Stalinist oppression in any way, a number of Europeans, when confronted with various demonstrations of nostalgia for the Third Reich, would without doubt have also hoped to hear us say that excusing the Nazi atrocities by pointing the finger at Stalinist crimes is unacceptable from an intellectual and moral viewpoint, and indeed that – in view of the war of remembrance that is currently bringing the Baltic republics and Russia into conflict – we should keep in mind Nazi Germany’s share of the responsibility in the tragedy of the Baltic States.
As far as we are concerned, we are ready for a debate that leaves no stone unturned, whether it focuses on the crimes of Stalinism, on the German-Soviet Pact of bleak memory, or further still on the history of the Baltic States.
That is the reason why we had a right to expect a text on 8 May 1945 from the European Parliament with a completely different focus.
Might it not even have been too much, furthermore, to pay tribute to the anonymous soldiers on this occasion, who, with no other ambition but to live and act as upstanding men and women, became involved in the resistance at risk of their lives, which so many of them sacrificed for our freedom.
I shall leave the final word to a European leader who, 20 years ago, found the appropriate words to speak about 8 May 1945, and in a country where it was most difficult to speak them openly.
I am talking about the former German President, Richard von Weizsaecker.
It liberated us all from the inhumanity and tyranny of the Nazis.’ &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the Second World War began in September 1939 when my country, Poland, was invaded and occupied by Germany and the Soviet Union.
This partition of Poland came about as a result of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, which had been signed a week earlier in Moscow.
Poland was not conquered by the fighting squads of the Nazi or Communist parties, but by the regular armed forces of its neighbours, or in other words by the German , and and by the Red Army.
We acknowledge the role played by Russia in defeating Nazi Germany and the huge loss of life the country suffered in the process.
Yet this does not alter the fact that Russia acted as though it had conquered Poland.
What is more, our Western allies in the fight against Germany were also allies of the Soviet Union, and gave their consent to our enslavement in Yalta.
The only help we received from the rest of the world in this process came by way of the arms race, which was won over time by the USA, and, in particular, through the success of Reagan’s ‘Star Wars’ programme, which weakened the Soviet Union.
Each and every one of us shares a desire for peace and freedom, and for a future shaped according to our wishes.
We Poles find it a source of great distress that so many Western media outlets continue to use phrases that we find insulting, such as ‘Polish concentration camps’, or even ‘Polish gas chambers and crematoria’, which was how the British had the temerity to refer to them in print.
Not all Germans bear the responsibility for such things, and we acknowledge that the German nation has distanced itself from its shameful Nazi legacy, but we are keen to ensure that future generations do not associate Poland with the crimes committed by the Nazis, as Poland was not responsible for them.
Similarly, the Russian people are not responsible for the crimes committed during the Stalin era, or in other words for the deportations, the gulags, the genocide that was committed in Katyn and the subjugation of Central and Eastern Europe.
We would therefore call for there never again to be a repeat of such things as genocide, the subjugation of one nation by another, aggression and war. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, individual nations had very different experiences of the Second World War, and so the debate we are holding today is perhaps the most important debate on European identity that has been held for years.
What is missing, however, is any reference to the link that exists between the start and the end of the war, or to the views on the war that are currently being touted in Russia.
It was only after Hitler’s attack on the Soviet Union in June 1941 that he secured the assistance of the British and the Americans by entering into a new coalition, which was ultimately to defeat the Third Reich.
The Gulag Archipelago continued to expand, and the number of lives it claimed can be compared to the number of Soviet citizens that fell in the war.
The cooperation between the Big Three was therefore based on a mere semblance of common values, which was why it proved impossible to maintain after the end of the war.
Just before his death, Roosevelt admitted that America could not do business with Stalin, as the latter had broken every one of the promises he had made.
Europe was divided, and Eastern Europe was driven into the arms of Stalinist totalitarianism.
The Polish armed forces constituted a quarter of the Allied forces, and in relative terms the country suffered the greatest loss of lives during the war.
Unfortunately, Russia is reluctant nowadays to acknowledge the ambiguous role played by the USSR during the war.
Russia has officially denied that Stalin attacked Poland in 1939, that genocide was committed in Katyn and that the USSR occupied the Baltic states.
It has even said that the Yalta Conference brought democracy to Poland.
Viktor Yerofeyev, a well-known Russian writer, recently wrote that Russia is enlightened enough to make no distinction between Stalin’s totalitarianism and Hitler’s regime.
President&#160;Putin has said that reconciliation between Russia and Germany could set an example to Europe.
Unfortunately, any reconciliation that is based on a Stalinist interpretation of history sets the warning bells ringing, and they are ringing particularly loudly in Warsaw, Vilnius, Riga and Tallinn.
Both the Polish people and the other nations of Central Europe believe that it will be impossible to achieve peace and reconciliation in Europe if the nations situated between Germany and Russia are left out of the equation in this fashion.
What the House needs to understand is that we in Poland and Central Europe feel too cramped for comfort whenever the superpowers of Western Europe and Russia shake hands over our heads. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is of great importance that we should at this moment commemorate the end of the Second World War 60 years ago.
It is regrettable, though, that Western Europe is devoting so little attention to the historical fact that 60 years ago, the official go-ahead was given for handing over the Eastern European peoples to Soviet occupation, to dictatorial Communist regimes that were certainly a match for the Nazis in terms of horror and crime.
The Red Army was already at Warsaw in 1944, simply waiting until the Nazis had suppressed the uprising.
Vaira Vike-Freiberga, Latvia’s President, pointed out that 1945 did not bring the Baltic States liberation of any kind, quite the contrary.
It is perhaps apt, 60 years down the line, to look at those issues.
I am shocked when a European Commissioner includes photos on his website on which he demonstrates his admiration for one such as Fidel Castro.
Jean-François Revel already spoke of – the totalitarian temptation.
In his letter to Vytautas Landsbergis and me, Mr Frattini has written recently that your history is our history too.
When we celebrate the end of the World War in Europe, we must not forget that the end of the war brought something different for each of the European nations.
In the case of more fortunate nations, it marked the end of long suffering and immeasurable destruction sixty years ago.
Another evil dictatorship, however, awaited the other half of Europe with no less suffering and destruction.
Night after night without daylight, occupation after occupation without independence, inhumane dictatorship after inhumane dictatorship without freedom.
Slovakian representative, Zita Pleštinská, sits here behind me among us, whose Hungarian father, István Kányai, was equally hunted by Nazis and Fascists, and then later suffered nine years in the hells of Soviet concentration camps.
For many European nations, their much-coveted freedom came fifty years after May 8, 1945.
In reality, the Second World War ended on May 1, 2004.
Therefore, the end of the war should more appropriately be celebrated here, in the capital of reunified Europe instead of Moscow.
The nations of Europe looked at two sides of the same wall: the barbed wire divided us in two for half a century.
The system forced upon Central European nations by Soviet Communism was a direct consequence of the plan that Stalin spoke about on August 19, 1939 before the Politbüro, when giving an explanation for the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact.
I quote: Our nations rose up against such dictatorship from the Bolshevik Parties many times: 1956 in Berlin, October 1956 in Hungary and Poznañ, 1968 in Czechoslovakia and 1980 in Poland.
Dear colleagues, our history is your history too.
After the war, Western Europe proudly straightened itself up and started to prosper in peace.
But many people in Western Europe do not understand either why the five-pointed red star, like the swastika, has become the symbol for hatred and oppression.
Half a century later, the Soviet Union and the Communist regime also collapsed.
Similarly, Yugoslavian Communism that went on its separate way without Soviet occupation suffered a disgraceful defeat.
In Russia, statues of Stalin have been erected again, and the Soviet occupation, once again, is referred to as liberation.
Sixty years after the military end of the war, it is time to face these issues.
The enormous sacrifice of the Soviet army demands respect and honour.
The occupying army, however, does not deserve our respect; it forced its own oppressing dictatorship on one part of the European nations.
The reuniting of Europe gives opportunity for a new beginning.
We should bow our heads in memory of this time and commemorate the victims of this war.
There is, however, one thing that unites us, as we all remember the victims claimed by the war and the struggle for freedom and democracy.
It is the memory of these things that provides a basis for our common European identity.
Today we are commemorating the victims of the Nazi terror in the countries occupied by the Third Reich.
We are also honouring the victims of the Holocaust, or in other words the genocide committed against the Jews in Europe during the Second World War, which was a crime that has no parallel in human history.
We are commemorating the victory of the Allied nations over the Third Reich, and in particular the part played by the United States of America in liberating Europe.
We are commemorating the losses suffered by all sides in the Second World War, as well as those who fell victim to Stalin during the war.
The massacre of around 22&#160;000&#160;Polish citizens and prisoners of war in Katyn, and in other camps and prisons in the Soviet Union in the spring of 1940, has become a symbol of the latter.
The ideals of this movement, and the willingness of its members to sacrifice themselves in a one-sided war, are now a true legacy to us, as well as something of which we can all be proud and a fine example for Europe’s young people.
Although in military terms they had no chance of winning, fighting as they did in the midst of the war and in the heart of a Europe ruled by the Nazis, their fight did in fact have a deeper meaning.
It also meant violations of fundamental human rights under the totalitarian that was imposed on this part of Europe by the Soviet Union, the loss of independence for Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, and their incorporation into the Soviet Union.
We are a political movement that has always been on the side of democracy and human rights, whether in the Baltic states, in Central and Eastern Europe or in the countries of Southern Europe in which dictators came to power after the Second World War, namely Portugal, Spain and Greece.
Since the 1950s, European integration and the construction of a European Community have been our response to the war.
The conflicts between Europe’s nations were overcome in the process of setting up the European institutions, and this continues to be the case today.
The European Union we have today is the product of three major democratic processes, namely the defeat of fascism in the war, the fall of the dictatorships in Southern Europe in the late 1970s and the victory of democracy in Central and Eastern Europe and the Baltic states.
A model of international order is being established&#160;in Europe on the basis of peace and cooperation, and a community is being set up in accordance with the principle of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, including the rights of minorities.
The various peoples that go to make up the European Union, which now has 25&#160;Member States, have a variety of historical experiences behind them.
Ratification of the Constitution for Europe will mean that a united Europe can be established, the goals of which are peace, justice and solidarity throughout the world.
This Europe can also become a special area of human hope, to borrow the phrase used in the preamble to the Constitutional Treaty.
Together we have travelled a long road, from a Europe overwhelmed by war, totalitarian regimes and human misery, to a democratic Europe in which free nations within the EU are jointly creating a European future. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, 60&#160;years after the end of the Second World War, Europe’s future depends to a great extent on whether two basic conditions are met.
The first of these is that the history of the events that occurred during the Second World War be generally acknowledged, and the second is that a common vision of European integration be brought about on the basis of this history.
The way in which people remember history can differ according to whether or not the end of the war amounted to genuine liberation for them.
The first of these is 1&#160;September&#160;1939, when Hitler attacked Poland.
This date marked the beginning of&#160;a nightmarish time of occupation, repression and concentration camps, when the occupying forces did their best to annihilate the Polish nation and people.
It was, however, also a time of heroic deeds by the underground state and society.
Although this date unfortunately has less resonance in Western Europe, we find it both distressing and highly significant, as it is the date when the Soviet Union attacked Poland.
This attack took place following the conclusion of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact between Hitler and Stalin, which provided for another partition of Poland.
Other dates include 1943, when the crimes committed in Katyn in 1940 were uncovered, or in other words the slaughter of tens of thousands of Polish officers and officials on Stalin’s orders, merely because they served the Polish state, and 1943 and 1944, when two heroic uprisings took place.
The final date that Poles remember is 1945, as this is when the Yalta Conference took place.
The latter led to the creation of the Iron Curtain, which divided Europe for 44&#160;years, cutting off my country, Poland, from European democracy and integration.
These memories should not and must not under any circumstances divide nations and peoples.
This is the message behind Solidarity, the Polish social movement which triggered the liberation of Eastern Europe and which is also celebrating its 25th anniversary this year.
This movement was the driving force behind the resumption of relations between the two parts of Europe that had been divided by the decisions made in Yalta.
Taking my cue from it, I should like to state quite categorically that solidarity must be the guiding principle of our common future.
I should like to finish by calling upon all Members to vote in favour of this resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe that a peaceful and prosperous Europe must be based on the respect for human rights.
A number of its assertions would create a legal basis for the violation of human rights and lead to huge injustices in my country, Latvia, as well as in neighbouring Estonia.
The motion for a resolution states that the countries of Eastern Europe were under Soviet occupation for many decades.
In the case of Latvia and Estonia, such an approach would have dangerous consequences for the more than half a million people who settled there during those decades.
Mr Toomas Ilves from Estonia recently explained in the what this assertion would mean: ‘hence, the protection of minorities in the Baltic states will become senseless’.
Moreover, two weeks ago, the Latvian Parliament approved further consideration of the declaration asking the European Parliament for exemption from the obligation to accept foreign citizens and their descendants who were moved to Latvia during the time of occupation.
Moreover, my father was thrown out of the army, in accordance with Stalin’s orders, for being Jewish.
I will never accept that my father was an occupier, nor will I ever agree that my mother, a Russian Orthodox, who came to Riga from St Petersburg in 1950, should be subject to repatriation, as the draft Latvian declaration says.
The assertion made in this European Parliament resolution will encourage Latvian law-makers to accept this declaration in the very near future.
We parliamentarians are fully responsible for the words we are saying. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, 8 May 1945 was the date that heralded the end of the Second World War, but it was also the date that sealed the end of the Fascist and Nazi dictatorships in Europe.
Europe was liberated by the resistance of men and women, partisans who built the institutional and moral foundations of this Europe.
In truth, the values of peace and social justice were, in that short century, threatened not only by Stalinism, but equally by colonialism, by imperialism, and by neo-liberalism: from Algeria to Vietnam, from the shelling of Belgrade to the massacres of Sabra and Shatila, up to the events of 11 September 1973 in Santiago del Chile.
That must be our guiding light. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I sometimes wonder what the arguments are for the European Union.
President Borrell goes on about the reunification of Europe.
What we must do is tell the peoples of Europe the truth about our ambitions and give them free and fair referendums, otherwise we are heading for disaster. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, sixty years after the Second World War I can say with conviction that the European Union is the best model of cooperation between countries that has so far been experienced in the old continent.
Yes, it is satisfying that the whole political spectrum of the European Parliament has been able to unite on the resolution about the end of the Second World War and for the first time is simultaneously assessing and condemning the crimes of both the Nazi and the Communist regimes.
Ladies and gentlemen, our joint declaration stated unambiguously that there can be no reconciliation without historical truth; that only a strong Europe can provide solutions on how to overcome the legacy of the past, at the foundation of which lies injustice and the 50-year long social, political and economic degradation of nations that were kept imprisoned.
Unfortunately, our declaration did not say everything.
A few days ago in Riga, George Bush said, quite unmistakably: ‘‘the Yalta agreement followed in the unjust tradition of Munich and the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact.
Once again, when powerful governments negotiated, the freedom of small nations was somehow expendable.
Yet this attempt to sacrifice freedom for the sake of stability left a continent divided and unstable.’ The real cold war in Europe that lasted for nearly 50 years confirms what he said.
The evil empire created by Stalin was unacceptable, even though before then the victory over Nazi ideology had been jointly celebrated.
Sixty years have passed since the Second World War, and Europe together with its allies is shaping its future.
Unfortunately, Russia, inheritor of the mantle of the USSR, is still making statements denying its influence over the countries of eastern Europe, and the occupation of my country, Latvia, and of Lithuania and Estonia.
Russia is trying to hold on to opportunities to manipulate public opinion worldwide.
Russia is keeping the problem of non-citizens in Latvia in the public eye and exaggerating it, but at the same time it is continuing to violate the human rights of victims and casualties of the totalitarian Soviet regime, and their immediate families, by denying their suffering and losses.
Such an attitude by Russia does nothing to foster reconciliation between Russia and the states of eastern Europe and the Baltic which have regained their freedom.
What is more, the rest of Europe initially sat back and did nothing while this was going on.
Sixty years after the end of the Second World War, there are Members of this House who&#160;refuse to vote in favour of resolutions condemning the Holocaust, who persistently put the suffering of the victims of the Second World War on a par with that of its architects, and who distort the past and fail to differentiate properly between the causes and the effects of the most horrendous conflict of all time.
The recent speeches by a number of leading representatives of the Member States and of the European institutions to mark the 60th anniversary of the end of the war have revealed that they are infatuated with the idea that our golden age of prosperity and peace is a direct result of the European Union’s history.
Peace in Europe can just as well be attributed to&#160;the presence of American troops on European soil, and prosperity can be explained by economic growth in Asia and the United States and the increase in global trade.
As far as freedom is concerned, revolutions took place in a number of European countries, including my own, without any help from Brussels.
Europe’s potential to act as a global player will be reduced by the incomprehensible and unjust European Constitution, which benefits certain countries at the expense of others.
The inability of European leaders to promote growth and the cowardly, Euronationalist approach to economic matters are a far from adequate response to the hard facts of the global economy.
I represent the citizens of a country that suffered as a result of the Iron Curtain, which fell 15 years ago.
I believe that EU leaders should have the courage to admit to themselves and to the public that the revitalised Lisbon Strategy and the unjust European Constitution are nothing but a dead end, and will not result in more justice, freedom or prosperity.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; – This commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the victory over Nazi Fascism has triggered a repellent exercise in revisionism and historical distortion, part of which is the unacceptable motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
Far from being naïve, this dreadful falsification of history sets out to meet some very specific objectives.
The aim is to wipe out the key contribution made by the Soviet Union and its people’s glorious struggle to destroy the brutal killing machine of the Nazi Fascist armies and regimes, along with its decisive role in reining in imperialist aggression during the post-war period.
This motion for a resolution seeks to silence and defame the glorious and heroic role played by the communists in the anti-fascist struggle.
It seeks to airbrush the Nazi horror, its millions of deaths in concentration camps, the millions of men, women and children killed, and the systematic destruction of entire countries.
It seeks to gloss over the fact that Hitler’s rise to power was aided by German capital and by the complicity of the large capitalist interests, which fed the hope, right until the end, that the Nazi war machine would destroy the main enemy, the Soviet Union.
The type of professional relations mentioned by the Member falls within the jurisdiction of the individual Member States.
That is why, although human rights issues make up a significant part of the regular dialogue between the European Union and the United States, the Union is not able to debate this type of professional relations with the US authorities. &#160;&#160; Thank you for that response, even if it was not quite the one I wanted.
Our relations with the United States are not just about trade and businesses making money and, equally, this is not just a United States issue, nor one solely concerning American citizens, as there are a good number of Europeans teaching at these American institutions.
Although this is happening in the United States, it could also be affecting European citizens.
Every country must certainly respect international labour law, and I am in complete agreement with that point of view.
The latest analysis of the rights of minorities in Serbia and Montenegro is that presented by the Commission in its feasibility report assessing the readiness of Serbia and Montenegro to negotiate a Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
For its part, the situation with regard to the rights of minorities in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been outlined in the latest annual Commission report, which has been drawn up in the framework of the Stabilisation and Association process.
Generally speaking, the situation regarding the rights of minorities in the Western Balkans has improved in recent years, although significant progress still remains to be made.
Instead of drawing a comparison between the provisions made with regard to minorities in Serbia and Montenegro and in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Council intends to continue encouraging these countries taking into account their entirely specific circumstances to pursue a policy on minorities that is in full compliance with European standards. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the Ohrid Agreement imposes very stringent conditions on Macedonia as regards the protection of minorities, I would ask that we avoid applying double standards, which I rather think we risk doing.
Certain measures have already been taken to this end, such as the ‘Green Line’ Regulation, which was adopted in 2004 and recently amended in order to broaden its scope and increase its effectiveness.
Important work has also been carried out focusing on other measures, namely Commission proposals concerning, on the one hand, the instrument of financial support aimed at promoting economic development within the Turkish Cypriot community and, on the other hand, exchanges with areas where the government of the Republic of Cyprus does not exert effective control.
Adopting those two proposals is not yet possible, as there remain problems to be overcome, particularly as regards direct exchanges.
The hypothesis put forward by Commissioner&#160;Rehn at the January meeting of Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs, with regard to a possible reworking of the proposal’s legal basis, has not yet been presented to the Council.
In actual fact, the responsibility lies with the Commission to rework its proposal in this way, if it so desires.
I must point out, however, that legal opinions exist which do not confirm the approach taken by the Commission regarding the legal basis that it initially adopted.
It has been over a year since the Council pledged to end the isolation of Turkish Cypriots in the wake of their two-thirds ‘yes’ vote to the UN’s Annan Plan for a political settlement.
One has to ask what trust can anyone place in EU pledges if this is an example of non-delivery.
As the minister pointed out, direct trade and helping the economy of the north would assist in a political settlement.
I believe that it is precisely the intention of the Presidency to resolve these issues as soon as possible, and to thus act in accordance with the political commitments undertaken by the Council in April. &#160;&#160; As the author is not present, Question No 5 lapses.
A joint report by Oxfam, ActionAid and the European Debt and Development Coalition was recently published, assessing EU Member States' performance in the area of development.
Rich countries of the world agreed in 1970 at the UN General Assembly to reach 0.7% of GNI as foreign aid, at the latest by 1980.
Twenty-five years after this deadline, only five countries have reached this target, four of which are EU Member States.
Many other countries have broken their promises in relation to eradicating poverty.
In this context, during its meeting held on 22 and 23 March, the European Council called on the Commission and the Council to speed up their work, particularly with regard to the various components of the ‘development’ strand, so as to finalise the positions on the various issues and to allow the European Union to play an active role during future discussions with a view to the United Nations Summit being held in September 2005.
I have already announced this morning that the ECOFIN Council, after having considered potential new funding methods at its last meeting, will return to the issue during its informal meeting taking place this weekend. &#160;&#160; I would like to point out to the President-in-Office that this target of 0.7% was agreed 35 years ago and to date only five states, four of them EU states – four out of 25 EU states – have met this target of 0.7%.
That said, nearly 20 years after the fact, it is also reasonable to acknowledge the fundamental rights of an individual who has spent 18 years in prison, such as the right to live in dignity, freely and peacefully.
We are therefore planning to pursue the dialogue with the Israeli authorities, in particular on the issue of respect for human rights, in the context of the political dialogue that we are conducting with them, and in implementing the Neighbourhood Policy in which the Israeli Government has pledged to cooperate, on security issues and issues of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and, precisely, on respect for human rights. &#160;&#160; I thank the President-in-Office for his reply, which was as helpful as it could be in the circumstances.
Mordechai Vanunu has been elected rector of Glasgow University in my country, and we would very much like to see him able to come to the university and take up his role.
Ethnic Greek organisations have reported that some Greek families have been murdered and others have been hounded out of their villages.
In its political dialogue with Georgia, the Council has expressed its concerns time and again about the need to improve human rights safeguards in this partner country.
The Council will continue to make good use of every opportunity to express its concerns regarding human rights in Georgia, particularly in the context of its cooperation with the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the United Nations Commission for Human Rights.
The Special Representative for the Southern Caucasus, Mr&#160;Talvitie, also assists Georgia in carrying through its political and economic reforms, particularly as regards the rule of law, democratisation, human rights, good governance, development and poverty reduction.
The Council, in its conclusions of 25 April, highlighted the importance of these objectives and renewed its commitment to develop these various elements in the context of its relations and particularly of its European Neighbourhood Policy.
When the action plan on the European Neighbourhood Policy between the European Union and Georgia has been drafted and negotiated, the European Union will stress the need to improve human rights safeguards in that country.
The Council therefore intends to monitor very closely the situation of the Greek community as it unfolds, and to raise the issue amongst the Georgian authorities each time there are grounds to do so.
The European Parliament will perhaps also wish to address this issue itself during the next meeting of the EU-Georgia Parliamentary Cooperation Committee, which, according to my information, will take place on 13 and 14 June 2005. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply.
I believe that this reconciliation with the European Union, particularly in the context of the European Neighbourhood Policy, should also allow pressure to be put on the Georgian authorities to lead them not only to respect human rights in general, but also, significantly, the rights of minorities.
I therefore believe that, in the context of the links between the European Union and Georgia, that issue will have to feature prominently.
That commitment is a major step given that, since 1 May 2004, the Roma communities have become the largest ethnic minority within the European Union.
Due to the specific nature of their situation, their integration is a challenge of major proportions with regard to protecting fundamental rights and social inclusion.
As the Member is certainly aware, during accession negotiations with new Member States, as well as with Bulgaria and Romania, the European Union has brought up the Roma situation time and again as an area requiring political attention from the governments of those States, in particular in the light of the Copenhagen political criteria relating more specifically to the need to guarantee the respect and protection of minorities.
In confronting the challenge of integrating Roma communities, the major responsibility falls on national authorities, in addition to the regional and local authorities with the largest number of Roma inhabitants.
This directive in fact covers a wide range of areas where discrimination towards the Roma can occur: employment, training, education, social protection, access to goods and services and access to housing.
Finally, Structural Funds, and particularly the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund, can finance a number of initiatives to benefit the Roma community.
This is the case, in particular, with the Community initiative Equal, which is funded by the European Social Fund and is developing new approaches to fight against discrimination and inequalities, which, in the job market, specifically affect the Roma community. &#160;&#160; Thank you for that answer.
I believe that it is a duty shared by all the States from the moment that they become members of the European Union.
I should like to add that the Community Action Programme against Discrimination aims to promote measures that combat discrimination based on racial or ethnic origin.
One of the priority areas identified in the 2004 working programme specifically targeted the integration of the Roma into the labour market.
As the Council has already pointed out in its reply to Question No 1778 by Mr&#160;Rübig, the process of examining the Commission’s proposals has led the Council to adopt conclusions on 28 June on nuclear safety and on the safety of spent fuel management and radioactive waste management.
These conclusions reaffirm the commitment of the Community and its Member States to maintain a high level of nuclear safety.
On the basis of this programme and considering the calendar of the various international authorities whose work has a bearing on the tasks to be completed, an overall report is planned for the end of 2006.
It must be observed, however, that there are blocking minorities who are preventing us from advancing more rapidly along this road. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank the Council for its answer to Mr&#160;Seppänen’s question.
I have two follow-up questions.
The first concerns whether the Council believes that the terminal storage of radioactive waste is an issue of common interest to the extent that the EU should try to obtain common solutions for different Member States as to, for example, how and where their waste is ultimately to be stored.
My second question concerns the Euratom Treaty.
In actual fact, I believe that it might be time to carry out an in-depth reform of this Treaty.
On the issue of storage, I have already told you that consultations are taking place between experts to find a better means of safeguarding the storage of nuclear waste.
The Turkish authorities indicated that the entry into force of the new Penal Code was henceforth scheduled for 1 June 2005 instead of 1 April 2005.
Turkey announced its intention to take this opportunity to bring changes to the text with a particular view to improving provisions relating to freedom of expression and freedom of the press.
In July 2004, when faced with the reintroduction of the death penalty in Iraq, the Council reacted by raising this issue with the Iraqi authorities on several occasions, and it will continue to do so in future. &#160;&#160; . – Thank you, Minister, for your reply to Mr&#160;Papadimoulis's question.
More specifically, during the last meeting of the EU-Romania Association Council, thus before the signing of the accession treaty, the Union pointed out that political pluralism was an essential principle of any democracy and that it was fundamentally linked to compliance with the Copenhagen political criteria.
The Council is well aware of the problems faced by certain new political parties representing ethnic minorities in Romania in registering themselves to stand for election.
One is Council Regulation (EC) No 1347/2000(1) concerning jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility.
The second is the 1996 Hague Convention which deals with issues of parental responsibility in relations between EU States and third countries.
It was with this in mind that the Council took the decision, on 19 December 2002, to invite Member States to sign this Convention in the interests of the Community.
The Council expects that every effort will be made by the two Member States in a position to find a solution on this issue, in order that the Convention may be ratified by Member States in the interests of the Community, if possible before the end of 2005. &#160;&#160; I am grateful to the President, but I believe this was meant to be ratified in March.
Letters from the Hague Conference have gone unanswered, and this sends a very poor message to parents and others who would wish to take advantage of this convention, both in the Community and in third countries.
It also sends an unfortunate message to the outside world.
No other scenario is therefore envisaged and the current Presidency has no doubt that, independently of the outcome, future Presidencies will earnestly assume the responsibilities that fall to them. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the Council representative for having informed us that the Presidency is determined to reach an agreement.
I am, however, somewhat alarmed at the latest reports that have reached us on this compromise, as its conditions would be extremely disadvantageous to the new Member States, such as Poland, and maybe most of all to the Czech Republic and Hungary.
It is therefore impossible to say at this stage what the Council’s position will be when the debate is closed.
Article 159(3) of the Treaty establishing the European Community provides for specific actions to be adopted outside the funds in order to implement the economic and social cohesion objectives set out in the Treaty.
It may refer to cross-border cooperation measures, or to other structural measures.
I am unable to provide you with any further information, since the task of the working group is precisely that of defining the other structural measures that may form the subject of these measures in the third subparagraph of Article 159. &#160;&#160; As the author is not present, Question No 17 lapses.
Adopting the Constitution was an essential step on the road to restoring peace and stability in Burundi and in the Great Lakes regions as a whole.
The European Union has contributed to financing the deployment of African troops in Burundi, before the African Union subsequently took over, and it is lending its support to the current United Nations mission in the country.
The European Union has pledged EUR&#160;4.4&#160;million to organising elections and, in collaboration with the regional initiative, it is applying pressure with a view to introducing an electoral timetable before the recently extended transition period runs out on 26 August.
The European Union’s contribution to the elections accounts for a third of the overall budget allocated to them.
I would read out my questions to you were it not for the fact that my 30 seconds are up.
This proposal for a regulation has been discussed in a general manner by one of the working groups of the Council.
The Luxembourg Presidency is going to convene a new meeting of this group without delay, in order to speed up efforts – with a view to reaching an agreement at Council level - as soon as the Council receives the opinion of the European Parliament on the proposal for a regulation in question.
As regards the way in which the European Commission exercises its right of initiative laid down in the Treaties, it is not for the Council to express an opinion. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, firstly, I should like to offer you my congratulations and my best wishes, on this, the first time I have taken the floor since you took up your post.
I can assure you that the Luxembourg Presidency attaches particular importance to the problems of the most remote regions and, as it happens, to farming problems in the most remote regions.
We hope to be able to bring this matter to a successful conclusion, in line with your wishes. &#160;&#160; Question No 21 has been withdrawn.
As the authors are not present, Question Nos 22 and 23 lapse.
His remit is to coordinate assistance provided by Member States of the European Union and, if necessary, that given by international donors to the Palestinian Civil Police.
The duties of the European Union Coordinating Office include identifying, proposing and assisting in managing a number of specific bilateral assistance projects, some of which have already been launched.
The appropriate and essential mechanism for their implementation, in addition to the strategic framework, is overseen by the European Union Coordinating Office.
We will have to work in close collaboration with Mr&#160;Wolfensohn’s Office, and we will have to examine whether the European Office offers the appropriate framework to enable this cooperation to actually materialise and to be as effective as possible. &#160;&#160; As the time allotted to Question Time has elapsed, Question Nos 25 to 28 will be answered in writing(3).
That concludes Question Time. &#160;&#160; On a point of order, I apologise to the President-in-Office and to you, Mr President, that I was not here for my question.
I was at another meeting at the Winston Churchill Building and by the time I got back here, the question had lapsed. &#160;&#160; That is noted, Mr Crowley.
In our draft, we concentrate on the main political goals agreed by the Commission and Parliament, relating to four main policy areas: the relaunched Lisbon Agenda, security and solidarity, enlargement, and external relations.
I will discuss these four policy areas.
The core priority of this budget is the relaunched Lisbon Agenda, which aims to strengthen economic growth and create jobs.
The European budget contributes to this objective with three sets of policies: internal policies, agricultural development and structural policies.
To come back to the other main objectives of the budget, solidarity and security, the Commission proposal foresees measures to improve social and environmental security, ensure fundamental rights and promote active citizenship, especially for young people.
To conclude on internal policies, I would like to stress that the Commission’s proposal leaves enough margin for the budget authorities, and in particular Parliament, to increase the budget for those programmes which it considers necessary.
The Commission is, of course, ready to help and support this initiative.
The further phasing-in of the new Member States is reflected in all the internal headings, with particularly sharp increases in structural – up to 30% – and rural development policies – up to 9%.
On the administrative side, this phasing-in is also reflected in the request for 700 new posts.
For candidate countries, the Commission proposes to budget only the amounts that have already been endorsed for the respective pre-accession strategies.
To support these pre-accession strategies, the Commission is also requesting 100 new external personnel positions.
In the external relations field, accommodating the new 2006 priorities while at the same time ensuring the continuity of ongoing cooperation programmes is not possible within the predetermined ceiling.
The Commission’s proposal refers to amounts of EUR 112.6&#160;billion in payments and EUR 121.3 billion in commitments.
Bearing in mind the ongoing negotiations on the future financial perspective, I would like to point out that the Commission is asking for what is necessary and sufficient at this stage to finance the Union’s policies in 2006.
This preliminary draft budget for 2006, which already represents 1.02 % of the EU’s GNI in payments, does not take account of the needs of future enlargement to Bulgaria and Romania, or of the complete integration of new Member States, in particular in relation to the agriculture and cohesion policies that have already been decided upon, nor, of course, does it take account of increased investment in growth and jobs, as required under the relaunched Lisbon Agenda.
It is with pleasure that I acknowledge the work of Mrs&#160;Grybauskaité, in whose draft budget can be found positive solutions to certain issues that Parliament holds dear, and which appear in its guidelines.
I cannot say the same for heading 4 on external actions and assistance to SMEs.
Mrs&#160;Grybauskaité informed us that direct assistance in the Lisbon Strategy accounts for more than a third of the draft budget.
Even if that assessment were incorrect, however, the reference to the agreement reached on sustainable development during the Gothenburg European Council is without question unsatisfactory: there can be no competitive growth without sustainable growth.
The proposal on external actions, moreover, seems disappointing.
In general, we were expecting greater impetus, but our stance will, however, be constructive.
According to the Commissioner, funding for this Strategy will increase by 8%, which will mean cuts to other areas of expenditure under the third heading.
Another new priority relates to a number of challenges we face in terms of foreign policy.
Above all, these involve the reconstruction of countries devastated by the tsunami disaster, and the provision of EU support for the awakening of democracy and civil society that is taking place beyond our eastern border.
I have already emphasised the strong links that exist between the negotiations on the annual budget and those on the multi-annual Financial Perspective.
It is quite clear that it will be easier for us to negotiate the 2006 budget with the British presidency, and that these negotiations will be conducted in a friendlier atmosphere, if the Luxembourg presidency succeeds in concluding negotiations on the multi-annual Financial Perspective.
I have no idea whether this is a realistic aim, but I believe that it should be one we all share. &#160;&#160; I understand that the physical preliminary draft budget is with committee secretariat, but that other copies will be available later this week.
First, the successful completion of the 2004 round of EU enlargement, by fully integrating representatives from the new EU Member States into the EU institutions, as well as preparations for the 2007 round of EU enlargement, when Romania and Bulgaria will join.
The current situation is worrying: despite more than a year having already passed since EU enlargement, many permanent posts set aside for the new Member States still remain vacant.
It is forecast that by the end of 2005 only 78% of the permanent posts allocated to the new Member States will be filled.
The European Parliament’s Secretary-General will therefore have to issue a report on the reasons for the delay and make proposals for remedying the situation.
The second priority is effective and highly targeted use of European Parliament budget resources.
This priority encompasses such matters as: focusing EU institutional expenditure on fundamental tasks; supporting requests for new permanent positions from the budget only after having assessed the possibility of redistributing resources and staff within the framework of the existing budget; supporting new initiatives only after having assessed their impact on the budget and interinstitutional cooperation with a view to economical and effective use of budget resources.
The main problem is the maintenance of two European Parliament buildings in parallel, in Brussels and Strasbourg.
The third priority is improving EU budget terminology, making it more complete and more transparent in order to show taxpayers more clearly how their resources are used.
In speaking about the European Parliament budget, I would like to stress that a total budget expenditure ceiling will be set according to careful evaluation of justified needs.
Achieving a ceiling of 20% of total administrative expenditure is not an end in itself.
The proposal by the European Parliament’s Secretary-General sets a budget for the European Parliament for 2006 of 1.3416&#160;billion euro.
The final ceiling on expenditure for the European Parliament’s budget will be set at first reading.
I would like to stress as important aspects of Parliament’s work in 2006, first a better explanation to EU citizens of the European Parliament’s work, placing particular emphasis, in this connection, on the role of the European Parliament’s information offices in the EU Member States, and second, preparations by the European Parliament to play a larger role in the legislative sphere, as provided in the EU Constitutional Treaty.
I would like to call on the EU Council to reconsider the attitude it adopted in connection with the EU budget for 2006, where it artificially blocked the amount of payment appropriations.
If we want to see the EU as a reliable partner, it is important that the EU should fulfil its commitments, including the commitments which it entered into in connection with the enlargement of the EU.
Even now, in your preliminary draft budget, as adopted by the Bureau, there is reference to EUR&#160;90 million in unused funds.
I would have been very glad if Mr Onesta, who has drafted amendments on this topic, were present here today to take responsibility for the proposals he has made.
Consequently, it is very difficult to understand or justify the delays in the selection and recruitment process relating to enlargement.
Nevertheless, we have to take into consideration the challenges we face in the near future and the uncertainties which are still evident, relating among others to multilingual services, property investment, the Statute for Members, as well as the adoption of the Statute for Members’ Assistants, which has our full backing and support.
It seems to me that to date only a few objectives have been achieved.
From my very short and limited experience in the European Parliament, I think that the programmes are a practical and direct tool for improving the perception of the EU.
If we really want our citizens to feel that the European Parliament is their parliament, and that it represents their aspirations, then an effective information and communication strategy has to be implemented swiftly.
If we fail in this, we will have failed in a very real and fundamental key objective.
The Parliament’s budget is a complex administrative budget demanding a good deal of familiarity with Parliament’s working methods and procedures.
The rapporteur has succeeded well in this, and this is reflected, for example, in the small number of amendments.
The situation appears to be especially problematic in the linguistic sector.
It is particularly important to focus attention on how efficiently Parliament itself works.
The ‘raising the game’ reform is especially important for all Members of Parliament.
Accordingly, the final decision on the contingency reserve must be left until the autumn.
It will be unnecessary to increase the Parliament’s budget unless there are genuine reasons for doing so.
A year into the EU accession, 83% of Slovakia’s general public have a&#160;positive opinion of that step, and today the Slovak Parliament ratified the draft Constitution for Europe.
On the other hand, the citizens of Slovakia are becoming extremely sensitive to the problems associated with constraints on the exercise of the MEP mandate, especially of the Members representing the new States.
These constraints are due to the time-consuming administrative processes within the European Parliament in providing linguistic support, adequate translation capacities and availability of interpretation services in the parliamentary committees and political groups.
The draft resolution to the European Parliament budget tabled by Mr Dombrovskis – and I&#160;am taking this opportunity to thank him for his fine job – aptly responds to this situation.
It would be undoubtedly deplorable and inappropriate if approval rates vis-à-vis a united Europe were to decline in the new Member States as a result of shortcomings in the administration of the European Parliament rather than due to budgetary restraints. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to concentrate on three issues: the global level of Parliament’s budget, personnel policy, and information policy.
Concerning the global level of Parliament’s budget, the Secretary-General’s proposal set the level of Parliament’s budget at 20% of heading 5, which is EUR&#160;1&#160;340&#160;million.
The report also underlines that the level of Parliament’s budget should be determined on the basis of justified needs and reminds us that conciliation appropriations should be avoided.
We should call on the Secretary-General to present the Bureau with a proposal to modify the internal rules on recruitment adopted by the Bureau on 3&#160;May&#160;2004, to enable political groups to benefit from the same recruitment provisions that apply to Parliament’s administration.
The rapporteur supports improving the visitors’ service and strengthening the role of external offices.
Finally, I would like to thank Mr Dombrovskis for an excellent report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this report is a twofold scandal, in that it is a bitter reflection on the majority opinion in this House, and lays bare the tricks with which this House works.
This report was originally couched in very general terms, but, by way of oral amendments, decisions have been incorporated in it to the effect that, of Parliament’s expected surplus – totalling EUR&#160;90 million for 2006 – EUR&#160;60 million should simply be kept in reserve – where, as we know, all sorts of things can happen to it in the course of the Budget – and a further EUR&#160;10 million be put aside for buildings, even though various people, including the Secretary-General, who is here today, have always said that we do not actually need it for that.
For the sake of the European taxpayer, I call upon the few who are present here to vote against this report, and, in particular, against these specific parts of it.
The way this matter is being handled is one I regard as irregular and unlawful. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament’s budget for 2006 ought to reflect a number of the key priorities set out in the Dombrovskis report.
As an MEP from a new Member State, I should like to alert the House to several practical problems, which are directly related to the fact that certain aspects of the way in which Parliament works have still not been changed following last year’s enlargement.
These problems are a direct result of the slow progress made in employing officials from the new Member States within Parliament’s administration, and it is not only interpretation and translations that have been affected.
The number of people from the new Member States working for Parliament continues to be very low, and we are still a long way from filling all the posts for which funding was earmarked in the budget.
In my opinion, urgent steps must be taken to rectify this state of affairs, and to ensure that citizens from the new Member States are represented equally within Parliament’s administration.
My attention was drawn to this by the first group of visitors that came from the Czech Republic back in November 2004, and in spite of the reminders I have sent to the quaestor, nothing has yet been done about it.
I regret to say that no publicity materials are available in Czech or in the other languages of the new Member States, and no copies of the European Constitution are available for visitors from the new Member States.
I believe that something must be done about this in the near future. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have risen to speak on Parliament’s budgetary estimates for 2006 and the Dombrovskis report on these estimates.
The EU draft general budget for 2006 was presented a short while ago to the House, and so I should like to start with three comments on this draft.
The second point I wish to make is that it is the European Commission that has proposed this level of payments, even though it was only recently that this very same institution advocated average annual payments of 1.14% of GNI in the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective.
In my opinion, it will not be an easy task to explain to EU citizens how it will be possible to fund all of the EU’s expenditure from a total of EUR&#160;112&#160;billion, with payments expected to reach around EUR&#160;130&#160;billion in 2007.
Thirdly, I find it puzzling that this budget provides for a significant increase, or more precisely a 6.2% increase, in expenditure on administration, whilst expenditure on external action has dropped by 2%, and expenditure on the pre-accession strategy has decreased by as much as 4% in relation to 2005.
Following on from my previous point, I should like to move on to the issue of Parliament’s budgetary expenditure in 2006.
This represents an increase of 5.5% in relation to 2005.
It should be stressed that the main reason for this increase in funding is to ensure that funds are available to complete the EU’s enlargement to include 10&#160;new Member States, and to enable preparations to be made and the necessary funds to be earmarked for Bulgaria and Romania’s accession in January 2007.
In conclusion, I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Dombrovskis on having drafted a comprehensive report on Parliament’s expenditure in 2006.
It covers not only issues relating to enlargement, but also those relating to the quality and efficiency of Parliament’s work, in particular the work done by Members on documents drafted in their own languages.
It also details the problems we face in bringing Parliament and the fruits of its labour closer to the citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want especially to thank Mr Dombrovskis and the others who have had a hand in this report.
One of the main criticisms levelled during the election was that people hear too little about this House’s political activities.
The set of oral amendments he mentioned was submitted the day before voting in the Committee on Budgets to its members and there were no reservations regarding these amendments.
That is my clarification. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to make a statement in accordance with Rule 145.
The practice in this House, both in the plenary and in the committees, is that if an objection is made to an oral amendment proportionate to the quorum – which means one person objecting in a committee, or 37 Members standing up in the House – the amendment cannot proceed to the vote.
What is going on here is an attempt at evading responsibility, at avoiding the admission that something has been done in a way that ought not to be possible.
I should like to add, Mr Martin, that I hope I did not hear you accuse the chairman of the committee of misrepresenting what happened.
The Secretary-General has listened with great attention to the interventions of all colleagues.
In addition, I should in all honesty say that since only on a rare occasion does the Commission respond to my pertinent questions, I am not all that interested in the Commission position.
It appears that this minister and his administrative machinery, the European External Action Service, are now also causing doubts in the minds of those in favour of him, but it is far too late for that.
Once again, the European Union is making the classic mistake of cushioning the lack of political agreement with purely institutional measures.
An honest analysis of these institutional measures reveals that the much-praised, but very unfortunate, construction of the double hat is disturbing the institutional balance among the European institutions.
It appears that this provision does not apply to the Commission’s future Vice-President.
I would defy all advocates of this new role to refute this.
This minister, but also the European External Action Service, will be a constant source of interinstitutional tension, and I have not even mentioned the funding of the officials employed in that Service, and relations with national diplomacy, to which we have devoted another fine hearing, ending in many question marks.
As a fervent opponent to this Constitutional Treaty, I hope that it will be rejected in France, just as it will be in my own country.
A foreign minister would give European values a face and speak up for European interests in the world.
His dual role makes the construction rather complex, and it is to this that we must find a solution.
I believe that we must do so in the spirit of the Constitution – and what is the spirit of the Constitution?
Article 296 of the Constitution states that the foreign service shall be established through a resolution of the Council, following consultation with Parliament, and with the Commission’s consent.
The Commission has a part in shaping the foreign service.
We, in this House, were concerned that the Council had moved on much further with its work, had started driving in fenceposts and already had definite plans in mind, while the Commission was being too hesitant and taking too reserved an approach to this issue.
It is for that reason that we have, today, raised the question of how the Commission intends to ensure that the Community method is further developed and guaranteed in the foreign relations sphere, of how – in administrative and financial terms – the service is to be organised, and how Parliament will be able to monitor what it does.
We should use all available means to prevent a third bureaucracy coming into being alongside the administration of the Commission and the Council; that would be the worst possible thing to happen.
The question then, of course, arises of whether the foreign service is part of the Council or of the Commission, and this is where we have to consider the existence, even now, in many countries, of delegations that could become EU embassies.
That the Council would have a full part to play would nonetheless be guaranteed, for it is quite clear that the service would exist to implement the decisions taken by the Council as a political entity.
Examples of this kind of duality exist in many countries, including in Germany, where, at certain administrative levels, offices serve both the local authorities and the State.
Having the foreign minister also as a vice-president of the Commission would, of course, allow powers and responsibilities to be concentrated in one pair of hands, and consistency to be established in this area.
In particular, we need to bring together as far as possible the two pillars of the Union's external action: Community external relations and the common foreign and security policy.
The future minister, building on his experience as High Representative, will at the same time be a Vice-President of the Commission.
It follows that we are strongly in favour of the creation of an effective European External Action Service to enable the Minister/Vice-President to do his job effectively in full respect of Community procedures.
The Constitution confirms the Commission's important responsibilities in foreign affairs, including its role in external representation of the Union and in the execution of the budget.
It enhances its role of coordination and coherence in the different areas of external policy, and this will be the special responsibility of the Minister/Vice-President.
Under the Constitution, as under the present Treaty, the Commission will implement the budget under the scrutiny of Parliament.
The rights of Parliament will have to be respected, both as budgetary authority for the operational and administrative budget and in its role in multiannual programming.
President Barroso and High Representative Solana have agreed to work closely together.
The Commission, including the Minister/Vice-President, will seek to preserve and promote the Community method, which has proved its capacity to work and achieve good results in external relations.
Member States have started to discuss the issues concerning the establishment of the European External Action Service and are beginning to understand the complex issues involved.
A process of reflection and comprehension is continuing in capitals, notably on the status of the future service.
Let me say a word on the question of the administrative status of the new service in relation to the Commission and Council, which is a key point in the draft resolution of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
The responsibility of the Commission for the execution of the budget and in relation to Community policies should be preserved.
The next step will be a joint progress report to be submitted by the High Representative and the Commission to the European Council in June.
In this context, the views of Parliament are important, and I am therefore pleased to participate in your debate today.
I conclude by repeating that we, in the Commission, share the objective of parliamentarians to safeguard and enhance the Community method, and the role of the Commission and Parliament in this process.
At the same time, I believe that we share with you the aim of creating new structures that can really contribute to improving the effectiveness, coherence and influence of the Union's policies and actions in the world.
But we believe that the chances and opportunities for the Union and its institutions can, in the end, overcome those concerns.
Having said that, however, I believe that this is a crucial issue and I am therefore delighted that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has taken this initiative.
I believe that the figure of Foreign Affairs Minister, double-hatted, that is to say, appointed by the European Council but Vice-President of the European Commission, has prospered in the end because, for the intergovernmentalists, this is a way to get their hands on the Commission’s money and staff and, for the more Communitarianists, this is a way to have a say in the Union’s foreign policy.
We regard the creation of the European External Action Service, following on from the European Constitution, as being of enormous importance.
We see the establishment of this service as an important step towards a Europe that speaks with one voice and plays a more effective and coherent role in the world.
This position will be reinforced in the new European Constitution, because development cooperation and humanitarian aid will form independent objectives, with their own legal basis.
Since these areas of policy are pursued at Community level, the Commission and Parliament have a major role to play in them.
We are in favour of incorporating this service in the Commission’s remit, on the provision that the Council determines how the intergovernmental competences are fleshed out.
Coherent policy must ensure that achieving the main objectives of development policy (the millennium objectives for development) is not being tripped up by another leg of external policy, such as trade policy or defence policy.
Finally, I should like to add that the funding of this service should not be at the expense of existing external policy budgets or achieving the millennium objectives.
The European External Action Service is an important new concept within European external policy, which we must shape carefully by respecting the Constitution’s provisions and the European Parliament’s rights.
Succeed, and we will have achieved functional integration on the ground in third countries, whose greater efficiency will not only project the interests of the Union more effectively across the globe, but will also percolate up to the analysis and planning level in Brussels.
The Commission must certainly seek to recruit the trust of the foreign ministries of the Member States, but it also needs to preserve the special prerogatives and experience that it has acquired over decades across the policy spectrum, from development to the environment and, of course, including trade.
I am happy that my country, Slovakia, today ratified this Constitutional Treaty, all the more so that I have been involved in drafting it.
We should realise that the European Parliament is the only European institution directly elected by the citizens.
We should therefore eliminate the democratic deficit and make sure that the European Parliament is directly involved in the decision-making process with regard to foreign policy.
The European Parliament should not be merely consulted.
The Commission and Council should cooperate with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the other committees as required. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European External Action Service is a wide-ranging undertaking in administrative terms, and probably the most important structural issue to emerge from the Constitution, at least as regards the shape of the European Union’s future executive activities.
I hope that the Commission will be courageous enough to seize this opportunity and to come to this decision for itself.
No decision can be taken in the face of its opposition, and I hope that you will therefore go further than the general Community method by adopting the position of the declaration Mr Leinen has submitted, according to which the external action service will, in administrative, organisational and budgetary terms, be attached to the Commission, while, of course, faithfully implementing the Council’s decisions on matters in which the Council is competent.
I believe that the dynamics of administrative development mean that this is the only way forward that is in your interests and ours.
It would be no exaggeration to say that, with these new institutions, the institutional embryo of the future common European Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being created in the European Union.
I am one of those who believe that the Constitutional Treaty could take bolder steps in the direction of deepening these policies, extending the qualified majority and further strengthening the jurisdiction of the European Parliament in the field of common foreign policy.
In all events, however, under present circumstances and taking account of the correlations, we have a positive and compelling compromise, which is why I support a vote in favour of the Constitutional Treaty.
As regards the new institution of the European External Action Service, we must start preparing for it to operate as of now, so that we are ready as soon as – I trust – the Constitutional Treaty enters into force in November.
One of the basic issues is the reinforcement of the advisory and controlling role and greater involvement on the part of the European Parliament, both now, at the preparatory stage, and once the European Service is up and running.
That is why I propose that we ask the President of the Commission and Mr Solana to submit a joint progress report to the European Parliament, before presenting it to the European Council in June, and to promise to consult Parliament at all subsequent stages. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;I have a great many doubts and reservations about the setting up of a European External Action Service, and I should like to draw the House’s attention to three I regard as crucial.
The first relates to the question of whether Community legislation provides a legitimate basis for the European External Action Service.
The relevant articles of the Treaty on European Union have admittedly been cited, as well as other pieces of legislation, but the main point of reference for the establishment of this Service is the draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
It follows from this draft Treaty that the setting up of an EU Diplomatic Service is a simple consequence of conducting a common foreign and security policy and appointing an EU Foreign Affairs Minister, as already mentioned by previous speakers.
It should be pointed out, however, that the draft Constitutional Treaty has not yet been adopted, and what is more, that there are serious grounds for believing that it will be rejected by the citizens of the Member States.
I would also suggest that this is yet another example of the EU’s arrogant attitude towards the citizens of Europe’s sovereign states.
Since the EU institutions appear to believe that they have the right to act ahead of time, I would ask whether the Commission has a plan B, in case the Constitutional Treaty is rejected.
Secondly, the governments of the Member States entered into a commitment when they signed the draft Constitutional Treaty in November 2004, and this commitment has questionable consequences.
Finally, my third concern relates to the planned structure of the European External Action Service, as the latter may entail the creation of a new army of officials with unclear, or even only partial, powers.
Furthermore, I should like to ask how many officials currently work in the Commission services responsible for EU external policy, and how many officials are expected to work in the future External Action Service? &#160;&#160; Mr President, in answering this debate, I should like to invite the Commissioner to focus on two points.
Specifically, is it correct to conclude that national foreign affairs will then only be able to be conducted in a manner consistent with the common foreign policy and will only be able to operate in a manner that is subservient to the EAS? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to congratulate you for looking rather enthusiastic, though I have my suspicions that you would much rather be eating asparagus with the rest of the House at this moment.
First of all, I think that this is probably the most important institutional question that we will face within the next four to five years.
It is really about executive power: it is about who runs foreign policy – the Commission or the Council.
Most of all, I am happy that, in the European Parliament, we have brought the debate and the discussion out into the open.
The third point I wanted to make – and this is to reiterate what Mr Méndez de Vigo and Mr Brok said – is that there are two key issues that we are looking at from this side.
The first is that, even though the system might be it is very important that two things remain with the Commission: one is the budget and the second is general administration.
Never underestimate the capacity of the Council Secretariat to pull the rug out from underneath the Commission – they will do it if they get a chance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, as Mr Brok already pointed out, I should like to give testimony as chairman of the Convention’s external relations working party, whose main concern was to avoid the eventual adoption of a double external policy, one derived both from the Council and the Commission.
That is why this compromise has been worked out between those in favour of an improved status quo and those in favour of communitisation.
The External Affairs Minister would be President of the Council of Ministers, determining its agenda and, as its spokesperson, guaranteeing the coherence and continuity of policy.
We had even proposed that, in the case of a common initiative of the External Affairs Minister and the Commission, the Council should decide by majority.
From the very start, the working party realised that the External Affairs Minister’s logistical support was crucial.
Although this service will need to work for both the Council of Ministers and the Commission, the working party took the view that, in terms of dynamics, it was best if it was brought within the Commission’s scope, even though it has to be at the loyal service of the External Affairs Minister and the Council of Ministers.
Similarly, to decommunitise the Commission services also seems to be a step in the wrong direction.
The Commission must defend its position to the utmost and find a place for this external affairs administration in its services.
The Commission should not forget that it must be in agreement and has the last say, therefore.
I cannot deny that the huge clout the Commission now wields from its aid activities and its monopoly on external trade brings with it an additional large international political and economic dimension as well.
All of this is designed to create a more coercive and binding common foreign and security policy, threatening full UK policy independence in the field of foreign affairs.
However, I have serious worries about granting the EU more trappings of statehood, which the EAS signifies, if it further reduces my country’s ability to conduct its own independent foreign and security policy when it is in our own national interest to do so. &#160;&#160; – Perhaps the most complex, controversial and fascinating aspect of the challenge of constitutionalising Europe is that of external action.
Through external action, Europe spreads a new style of governance around the world, characterised by the active sharing of democratic values and respect for human rights.
The Service now demonstrates that the EU’s foreign policy is a shared project for life, a model of consensus on the broad horizons for the human race that Europe is drawing for itself and for its relations with the world.
The emerging Constitution illustrates that decisions on common foreign policy are now being made on the basis of criteria that are not exclusively intergovernmental, but rather transversal to the European institutions that process political decisions.
I was under the impression that this would start at 10 p.m.
I have listened with great interest to what parliamentarians have said tonight in this debate because the European External Action Service is a subject that arouses passions.
To Mr van den Berg, I would say that development policy is and will remain a key component of European Union policies and an important asset for Europe in the world and in the context of the Constitution.
I can assure Mr Duff that the Commission is not going to be emasculated by the Constitution as regards Community competences.
The Minister and his services will be bound by Commission procedures and the principles of collegiality, under the guidance of the Commission’s President.
In particular, the resolution which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs adopted on Tuesday – which I understand will go to the plenary session in two weeks’ time – is a contribution which must be taken into account, not only by the Commission but by Member States and the Council as well.
I shall conclude by repeating that we in the Commission are conscious of the concerns of parliamentarians to safeguard and enhance the Community method and the role of the Commission and Parliament in this process.
What is at issue is not whether Parliament’s positions can be taken on board, but the fact that we have asked what the Commission’s negotiating position is, in other words, whether or not it is arguing that this service should be attached to it.
We would be very interested to know what you think about this.
Nor is the issue in any way about the involvement of Parliament; on the contrary, we are here today to help the Commission avoid the situation in which it would be an internal market mechanism and the Foreign Minister a powerful figure in his own right, and instead establish that it is the Commission which, administratively speaking, performs the European Union’s role in the world.
This report provides a balance between, on the one hand, this Parliament's full support for the defence of the Union’s interests in the negotiations under way and, on the other, its ambition to ensure that this development round ends in success, which would mean the full integration and participation of the developing countries in the world economy.
Through this report, this House intends to send a decisive political message of support for the progress of the negotiations, in which the Commission is playing an essential role, reiterating our commitment to the WTO and its multilateral system of trade which, undoubtedly, is the best mechanism for promoting fair trade, demonstrating solidarity, in a way that benefits everybody.
The success of the negotiations depends on the firm political will of all the parties to reach a fundamental agreement in Hong Kong.
We must go there with an ambitious and balanced proposal in the different areas covered by the agreement: development, agriculture, industrial products (NAMAs), services and facilitation of trade, without forgetting the need to put development at the forefront of the negotiations, despite the fact that agriculture is unquestionably the motor for them.
In the field of development, we must ensure that the negotiations deal with the problems linked to poverty, malnutrition and hunger in the world, with a view to reducing them by half by 2015, as laid down in the Millennium Declaration, by means of a closer relationship between the WTO and the other international organisations.
In agriculture, the members of the WTO must work in a balanced fashion in relation to the three pillars — export subsidies, internal aid and access to the market — in order to produce detailed negotiation guidelines for Hong Kong and a parallel disarming by all the members of the WTO.
With regard to services, during this month revised quality offers should be presented and, with regard to services relating to the basic needs of the citizens, I do not believe that the developing countries should be required to liberalise them.
In a process in which, since Seattle, there is great social interest, it appears essential to emphasise the role that democratic Parliaments must play as an expression of the citizens’ views within international fora such as the WTO and, in the case of this Parliament, as a body responsible for democratic control of the Union’s trade policy and a future co-legislator in this field, once the European Constitution enters into force.
I welcome this debate, because I regard Parliament as the Commission's essential partner in the conduct of our trade policies, that is, in particular, the case in advance of the Doha Round, which remains our number one priority.
Those were at the heart of the founding charter of this Round, and they remain as important today as they were when they were first articulated.
I want Doha to put trade at the service of development.
That is what I believe in and stand for, and it is at the heart of the policies I am pursuing.
As I said in Geneva on my very first day as Trade Commissioner, the EU cannot be the WTO's sole banker.
In concrete terms, this Round has to yield improved market access and increased business opportunities all round, not only for developing countries – I expect and want them to be the biggest winners of this Round – but also for our own industry and service providers in Europe.
Market access in industrial products – NAMA – and services too are key issues in the Round.
However, they have shown little willingness to embrace the necessity of real movement on their part on NAMA and on services, even where objective analysis suggests this would be in their own economic interest.
The other main industrialised countries now need to follow our example to be more proactive on services and to work on their own agricultural reforms in order to match what we in Europe have put forward.
I also explained our idea of what an ambitious round should amount to.
It requires parallel progress on all three pillars of the agricultural negotiations – not just export subsidies – including the tariffs and quotas that restrict market access.
We reached agreement on the vital but highly technical issue of the conversion of specific duties – so many euros per bushel of this, so many euros per kilo of that – into their percentage ad valorem equivalents.
While the core issue of how much and on what basis these tariff equivalents will be reduced remains to be discussed – that will come later – we now have a basis on which we can move forward on agriculture and, as a result, on all other aspects of the DDA.
On this I should like to acknowledge and pay tribute to the work of Mrs Fischer Boel.
We expect intensified discussions among key players between now and the mini-ministerial in China, which will take place on 12 and 13 July.
If there is any chance of an ambitious outcome in Hong Kong at the end of this year, and thus an ambitious Round, this first approximation, which I hope that we can see in July, should, at the very least, firstly, establish areas of growing convergence amongst WTO members issue by issue.
The Commission wholeheartedly agrees with much of the report, but I just wish to pick out two specific points.
Regarding the special mention of flexibility for developing countries in paragraph 6 of the report, the Commission agrees with the thrust of the point being made.
We are prepared to grant flexibility to developing countries through special and differential treatment, both for LDCs and other weak and vulnerable countries.
The second point concerns the suggestion of a 'development box' in the agriculture negotiations mentioned in paragraph 9.
On market access, the report assumes that very positive treatment granted to sensitive products will allow the EU to protect its market organisations.
This is certainly what the EU hopes, but difficult concessions on some products will still have to be made, even in the best of circumstances.
I will listen to what Members of this House have to say and respond at the end, if and when I have an opportunity to do so.
Sound trading conditions for developing countries can make a significant contribution, and this is what we should be aiming for in Hong Kong.
In our trading policy, we should be able to draw more of a distinction between the different developing countries.
Thirdly, it seems that developing countries are still scarcely able to derive any real benefit from the opportunities that are given to them, and so I wish to highlight the importance of capacity-building and technical assistance.
We must work hard on those aspects in order to reinforce the countries’ export and trading capacity.
It is also important, where countries rely on one or two export products, to try to encourage them to diversify.
I would now like to turn to export subsidies, which were already mentioned by the Commissioner, and whose adverse effects on the local markets are already known.
Finally, the European Union has an important task in Hong Kong.
We all know how the negotiations in Cancún went.
You have said that last week, in Paris, the Ministerial meeting had progressed.
The discussions surrounding the access to the market in industrial products and services are at a standstill, as are those concerning the rules.
We cannot endorse such unbalanced negotiation in which agriculture pays for every other sector, when the European Union has made enormous efforts in this particular sector.
Secondly, the success of the negotiation round requires a genuine undertaking of responsibility from emerging countries, such as Brazil, India and China, in the negotiations.
These countries must also open up their markets to other developing countries, as the real driving force of development will lie, in the years to come, in the growth of trade between countries of the south.
Thirdly, the recent decision of the Appellate Body in respect of sugar reminds us that there is no honesty in negotiations.
It is therefore crucial to evaluate each point of the negotiations from the perspective of WTO legislation in order to prevent a situation in which the compromise we have accepted is dashed by a decision taken by WTO judges and in all likelihood also penalises the poor countries.
Thirdly, the lack of equilibrium in the liberalisation of trade between advanced trade systems.
Comparatively speaking, the Union has made the greatest concessions, with the result that the European market is the most open market in the world.
Fourthly, the unwillingness on the part of other international actors also to assume a leading negotiating role.
This principle also lays down the boundaries of the further development of the WTO both in the global organisation of social policy and in the global organisation of environmental issues.
Consequently, what needs to be established, in my opinion, is a new global 'umbrella' architecture to house the following pillars: - the WTO, which satisfactorily promotes the efficient distribution of resources; - an international economic organisation for international economic stability; - an international development organisation for the international redistribution of resources and support for the development of poor countries; - an international environmental organisation for the protection and improvement of the global environment and natural resources.
As far as both the Committee and my group are concerned, the question to which it gives rise is what can be done, firstly to ensure that we are actually being helpful, in a supportive way, in bringing about a positive result in Hong Kong – even though there will be no final conclusion, a positive result would be nice in any case – so that negotiations can then be continued on a sound footing; secondly, also in order to ensure that the great claim we make in the title of ‘development round’ is justified by reality; and, thirdly, to ensure that the European Union’s interests are defended.
This is of course a very complex business when one bears in mind that the outcome of Cancún was not exactly a very good one, that we have had a very difficult start and that the negotiations are currently looking rather shaky.
There is also the problem of the countries with emerging economies, which are fighting to be allowed to take up a leading, global role in the world.
That is very much apparent from the example of China – about which we will have a debate tomorrow – but also from Brazil and, of course, from India.
Our mechanisms are very good and long-established, but they are all somewhat informal in nature.
At the same time, though, it is also the case that the public would like to see us more directly involved, with more power and more rights in a process involving negotiations on agriculture and services sectors.
Trade and development must go hand in hand and greater involvement of the developing countries in the framework of a fair world trade is an essential component in the fight against hunger and poverty in the world.
It is promising that last week, a compromise was reached about import levies on agricultural products and that with it, an impending failure of the Doha Round was warded off.
The translation of linear import levies into common percentage-based tariffs, based on the value of the products, is a careful, but nevertheless, important step in the direction of a blanket agreement on trade in agricultural products.
My group, however, remains convinced that all export subsidies in agriculture must eventually be abolished, for it is, and remains, unacceptable that current EU agricultural policy should cost an average European family approximately EUR 100 extra and should make it harder for the developing countries to escape the poverty trap.
The World Bank calculated recently that success in this trade round can lead to an increase in worldwide income by EUR 385 billion per annum.
If Africa can increase its share in world trade from 2 to no more than 3%, its annual income will increase by USD 70 billion.
For that reason alone, we cannot afford another failure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I thank Mr Moreno Sánchez for his work on this issue, but I think it will come as no surprise to him that, unfortunately, our Group cannot support his report as it stands.
The assumption still seems to be that more trade automatically equals more growth, which automatically equals more poverty reduction, yet the reality on the ground is quite different and, as the recent UNDP Least Developed Countries report makes clear, greater integration of some of the poorest countries into the international trading system has generally not led to poverty reduction amongst the poorest people.
Another assumption underpinning the report is that, if only the WTO’s critics understood the institution more, then somehow we would mysteriously fall in love with it, or, as the report puts it, ‘the WTO must provide adequate information and explanations to civil society [...] in order to avoid the process of globalisation and the role played by the WTO being widely misunderstood and misrepresented’.
If prices for the 10 most important agricultural commodities exported by developing countries had risen in line with inflation since 1980, those exporters would have received around USD&#160;112&#160;billion more in 2002 than they actually did, which would have been twice the level of official development assistance.
It is hard to imagine what justification the Commission can possibly have for working on a mandate that is six years old and which, therefore, fails to reflect any of the important changes that have happened since it was agreed.
In contrast, I believe that we should fight for a reduction in the role of the World Trade Organisation.
From the outset, let me say that I also welcome the report and I congratulate the rapporteur on his work.
I am particularly pleased that the proposal on behalf of the Committee on International Trade is a considerable improvement on the original document, notably in relation to how to include developing countries in the world trade system, and the importance to be attached to the liberalisation of certain non-essential services and, importantly, to the solutions being proposed to reduce agricultural protection.
The compromise amendments adopted in committee have, in my opinion, improved this text.
This report is a fair analysis which takes due account of European expectations and interests in the context of what is bound to be a difficult round of negotiations.
In the context of the WTO talks, I am concerned about agriculture and, in particular, about the future of small family farms in my own country, which, let it be said, are the backbone of Irish society.
As far as European farmers are concerned, they have signed up to a reform which I consider to be cast in iron and which remains valid until 2013.
I must say, Commissioner, that I am encouraged by what you have just said in this regard and I believe that you will rigorously defend our interests here.
Finally, I think that we all agree that the WTO is the best forum in which the rights of all states – rich and poor, developed and developing – can be protected.
I also believe that multilateralism is the way forward and I am pleased that the Commission has maintained this position.
I look forward to the Hong Kong Conference in December of this year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely vital that we make headway in this round of negotiations, which are about reform and liberalisation.
More and more people see everything that is summed up under the heading of ‘globalisation’ as a danger rather than an opportunity; in Europe, whole generations are completing their schooling without having been taught what underpins the social market economy and world trade, which leaves them open to misinformation and at the mercy of deceitful campaigns.
I would therefore ask the Commission – through you, Commissioner Mandelson – to devise a scheme whereby, in parallel with the negotiations, a campaign may be pro-actively mounted to win the public over to free and fair world trade, enabling people in Europe and around the world to be persuaded of the benefits of global trade and taking them with us as we go down this right and necessary road. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since its launch, the WTO has been heavily criticised.
To the other question, ‘do we need this organisation the way it is currently run?’, however, my response would be far more cautious.
Trade has a significant role to play in creating this balance, but its existing rules have until now remained largely indifferent to the demands and needs of a large part of the planet.
Last month, on 10 and 16 April, hundreds of NGOs and associations made their voices heard throughout the world in support of fairer trade.
Our priority must be to reorient international trade in order to equip it with a genuine economic and social justice dimension.
If we really hope to help the poorer countries to benefit from globalisation, we must re-evaluate all world trade rules in a more equitable manner, by considering the link between trade and sustainable development.
In my opinion, members of the WTO should therefore include these principles amongst their objectives, but above all they should draw on the outcome of the practices and the rules enacted so that they are then in a position to adapt the policies conducted in a more fair and equitable way.
As a European Member of Parliament elected by European citizens, I can only state, and above all regret, the current lack of information of which I have fallen foul, to enable me to satisfactorily carry out my democratic control function.
Yet more regrettable is that we, as European Members, have no say in the Commission’s negotiation mandate.
Whilst I am anxious about the consequences and repercussions of the Directive on services for our European public services, I am easily annoyed when faced with incidences of the liberalisation of services at international level, which could threaten – often public – services linked to citizens’ basic needs in countries that often have the most urgent need of them.
If we are widely agreed that services linked to healthcare, education, and cultural and audiovisual sectors have exceptional status in the negotiations, we must not, however, forget the services that relate to basic needs such as water and energy, since we cannot call on developing countries to liberalise these services when this would lead to their being dismantled.
These development objectives cannot be dissociated from the Doha Development Programme and the negotiations taking place.
We cannot make promises one day and then quickly forget them the next.
The case of the Philippines is one example amongst many others of the harmful effects of liberalising water distribution services.
In fact, following the liberalisation of this service in 1997, the price of water not only increased by 600%, but the very quality of the water also dropped to such a degree that it today causes illness.
The rapporteur wants it to benefit all, and Mr Caspary has calculated for our benefit that EUR&#160;500&#160;billion will make everyone rich and happy.
Even Commissioner Mandelson gives me the impression that he believes that the abandonment of agricultural production by our own countries would cause an outbreak of prosperity in the countries of the developing world.
Commissioner Mandelson spoke of the need for us to do away with restricted market access, particularly for foodstuffs.
I would point out to him that the European Union is the world’s biggest importer of foodstuffs, so this is not about market access but about the conditions subject to which the products find their way onto our market.
If the European Union gives the least developed countries free access to our market, that free market access does not automatically make them rich; one must, on the contrary, consider the conditions applicable to the free access to the market in this instance.
In the agricultural sector, we need services through production.
The maintenance of cultural landscapes renders a great service to European society, one for which farmers must be paid subject to the terms and conditions obtaining here.
It is simple to define the word ‘free’ in quantative terms, but to do so in qualitative terms takes some effort.
We need a special form of external protection, with the conditions to which production here and our own farmers are subject replicated abroad, and we have to set the conditions, the prices and the levels in such a way that these countries can develop their economies rather than being forced under the poverty line, and without our own farmers going bust.
Commissioner Mandelson, I hope that we will soon be able to discuss these matters with you at rather greater length and in somewhat greater depth in the Committee on Agriculture. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, what the Commission was mandated to do in 1999 it showed itself incapable of doing, not only at the negotiations in Seattle, but also at those in Cancún.
I believe this was the right thing to happen; it should have led to the Commission being given a modified mandate, one that focussed not on more deregulation and the opening up of markets, but on organising real fair trade between the various countries of the world, which are developed to greatly differing degrees.
For some countries, that may mean protecting their markets until such time as the regional economy has become sufficiently strong to stand up to foreign competition.
In other regions, this may mean opening up a market in order to offer other providers export opportunities.
Agreements such as GATS or NAMA can rob developing countries of the chance to build up their own industrial and service sectors and, at the same time, to develop high environmental and social standards.
It is the current debate on textile imports, though, that shows us the other side of the coin – what the opening up of markets means to the industrialised nations.
Issues such as preventive health care, education, social protection and environmentally-friendly production methods are inseparably part of it.
This is more important to us than the Singapore issues, even if they appear to have been reduced in number from four to two.
Alongside the WTO, the relevant UN institutions – UNCTAD or the ILO, for example – must be given greater weight in development matters.
What I really do want to say to Mr Caspary is that those who regard ‘Attac’ as a radical group have not grasped the idea that it is from the presence of differing views that democracy draws its life! &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we should also be asking ourselves in what ways Hong Kong and the Doha round can help us achieve the Lisbon objectives.
Growth is essential to our society, and I prefer not to think about the sort of debate we would have in this House if we were to say that we wanted to achieve the opposite of Lisbon.
It is because we agree on the importance of the Lisbon goals that it is important that the WTO round be well-prepared.
While there is a need for better organisation within the WTO, we must also ensure that we arrive at Hong Kong with a sound minimum compromise in our pockets, which, last time in Cancún, we failed to do.
If our experts in Geneva do not manage to work out a minimum compromise, we will again risk failing to achieve credible results.
We have to give thought to how, in this round, we can get prosperity in these countries to increase: not by redistributing wealth, but by helping people to help themselves through the traditional structures of family businesses, to which these countries are accustomed.
We in this House are willing to help you get them to do this, and to enter into a dialogue with you in order that we may, together, achieve what is best for Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, we all welcome the positive outcome of the August 2004 agreement which was, to a great extent, the result of Community initiatives.
Farming ended up being the most important chapter in the negotiations, despite the fact that we had insisted from the outset on balanced attention to all aspects of the Round, with fair results for all sectors and all partners.
However, the final agreement should not bring into dispute any aspect of the recent reform of the common agricultural policy and should safeguard equivalent commitments for all trading partners.
The question of access to the agricultural product market and, more importantly, the technical aspects of the method for calculating ad valorem equivalents proved to be the key point in the negotiations.
Protection of agricultural indications and the incorporation of non-trade aspects should not only be an objective, but should also constitute a precondition to the final agreement.
These elements also determine the multi-operational role of European farming.
Cotton was put forward as a major issue for the promotion of negotiations with less developed countries.
We hope that additional commitments for this product will also concern other trade partners.
The report by Javier Moreno Sánchez succeeded in safeguarding the balance in the matter of his proposals for WTO negotiations.
The purpose of this Round, which has been called the ‘Development Round’ since it began in 2001, is to strengthen the basic principles of the multilateral commercial framework, responding appropriately to the problems of the developing countries.
Success in the negotiations must allow them to make trade an integral element of their national development policies and, to this end, we must have sufficient flexibility to deal with the precarious situation of the least-developed countries, to recognise the new role of the emerging countries and to tackle the particular impact of liberalisation processes on the vulnerable countries.
Aware of these problems, the rapporteur rightly raises the need to provide specific technical assistance and to create capacity in the developing countries; the possibility of introducing a development compartment, for the least-developed countries, in the negotiations on agriculture; promotion of South-South trade and the need for the emerging countries to continue to open up their markets to the least-developed countries; and recognition that the principle of special and differentiated treatment should be the backbone, which would involve non-reciprocity in trade rounds, and which must be adaptable to the characteristics of each developing country.
Its application must make it possible for the International Monetary Fund, and other organisations, to establish a trade integration mechanism intended to compensate for the losses they may suffer as a result of trade liberalisation.
As rapporteur for the report on the System of Generalised Preferences, I am very pleased with the rapporteur’s support for my proposal that attention be paid to the erosion of tariff preferences that may result from the Round, repeating the request that the Commission produce a special report examining its impact and proposing the measures to be adopted.
The Moreno Sánchez report makes a magnificent contribution to clearing up reservations and moving forward a Round that satisfies the aspirations of all of its members to make progress. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the good work and the excellent report and would like to single out three items that I regard as important.
First of all, transparency, which other Members have already mentioned.
It is clear that the subject of the negotiations, and – presupposing that negotiations are brought to a successful end, the actual decisions taken will have a considerable impact on a huge number of people.
That is why it is essential that a democratically elected Parliament such as ours be kept constantly informed in detail about the negotiations and involved in them.
The Constitution will offer us more scope in this respect, but I would urge you, Commissioner, in the next couple of months and years, to do more than you are strictly speaking required to do in order to involve this House, and, by extension, civil society, in this matter.
Secondly, world trade must also be fair.
It should benefit everyone, but the developing countries, in particular.
For that purpose, we must first of all ensure that those countries are given the necessary technical back-up during the negotiations in order to further develop their negotiating scope, and also to work on capacity-building.
That will require some political courage and also concessions on our part.
My third, and last, point concerns the liberalisation of trade in services, which is important and creates great opportunities, but we must clearly define the area.
After all, there are services which should ideally not be managed by the free market, namely the services of general interest.
These should remain outside of the negotiations and do not, in my view, only concern education and health care, but also, for example, water, the source of all life, as someone said before.
Unfortunately, there are now examples in some developing countries of the privatisation of water supplies having had very pernicious effects.
If I can go back to something that Mr Rübig said earlier when he talked about the need for the round to end in a sound minimum compromise, he is right.
I hope it is healthy, and I hope that the sort of negotiating fatigue that we are starting to see will encourage people to show their cards a little bit more, to project to the end game in this round, to see how, when all the parts are fitted together, we will see a round that ends genuinely in wins all round for people, but not least and in particular, for those members of the WTO who are most in need of a successful and ambitious end to this round.
Bearing in mind some of the contributions that have been made, for example, by Caroline Lucas and Mr&#160;Graefe zu Baringdorf, I respect entirely where you are coming from in the remarks that you make, but I profoundly disagree with you in your rejection of the premises and basic principles of the international trading system.
Now that we have done so well, now that developed countries are so well off, and now that we in Europe are doing so well after decades of open trading, your approach seems to me simply to want to knock the ladder away for the rest of the world to catch up.
But equally, we have to recognise that no country has made itself prosperous or better off by cutting itself off from the rest of the world.
Simply opening your markets is not an end in itself.
I strongly agree with her when she identifies preference erosion as such a problem for many single commodity-dependent developing countries.
When we talk about the reform of sugar, raised earlier in the debate, we know that we have a responsibility not only to manage and bring about that reform in the interests of the people we represent, or the people you represent in this Parliament and whose interests I reflect also, but we also have to make sure that the assistance in adjustment and restructuring that we deliver to poorer, less well off developing countries, for whom sugar is absolutely central, not only to their economy, but to the fabric of their society.
Agriculture is without doubt the most complex and challenging subject of negotiation in this round.
I agree with Mr Daul that we cannot place all the weight of this round on agriculture.
The actions we take now and the negotiations we undertake in this round, have to ensure that there is a sustainable future for European agriculture.
We must not put that at risk, we must not put it in jeopardy and nothing that I or the Commission do in the course of this round will create such a risk.
Of one thing I am sure: you cannot just leave agriculture to the free market.
When we talk about agriculture and the interests of people who live in rural communities, their interests in this round, for me it highlights the importance all the time of explaining, justifying – I think you used the term ‘advertising’ – what we are doing in this round.
We have to advertise the huge potential benefits and prize that is in our grasp in the successful and ambitious completion of this round.
It should not be taken as a given, as an assumption, that what we do in this round we can simply deliberate on and decide behind closed doors and pass down to a grateful public at the end of the day, as if that is the beginning and end of involving civil society.
I say this, too, not only because I am very conscious of the sensitivities, fears and anxieties that these negotiations highlight – trade is a very political subject indeed – but because it also highlights the important role of parliamentarians: Members of this Parliament, but not just this Parliament, members of all national parliaments are involved as well.
That is for two reasons, first of all, parliaments in their work, and the scrutiny offered by parliamentarians, puts pressure on people like me to explain and justify what we are doing.
But, secondly, what you are doing is representing civil society in a representative and authentic way, in ways that non-governmental organisations do not always do entirely faithfully.
Legitimacy that it would not otherwise have if it were simply conducted in secret without any transparent way of working, without any accountability for what we are doing and saying during the course of these negotiations.
It is true that if we had a constitution, the role and access of Members of this House to this process would be formalised.
Nonetheless, without the Constitution so far, we still have a very good relationship, we were able to achieve across the range of what we do informally what in time I hope and predict we will be able to cement formally as well.
When it comes to issues like services – water and other public services – which, in particular excite anxieties amongst the general public, then it is right that the general public, the citizens, are able to see in their democratic forum, in this Parliament, their anxieties and their concerns being properly aired and properly represented.
That is why I am grateful to those tonight who have raised the issue of services and have done so in such a constructive way.
I hope that meets the point of those who have emphasised, quite rightly, the role of civil society in this.
And it takes decisions, and it makes findings against the most powerful in the world.
Those who argue, as some have done in their contributions tonight, that the capacity to trade is crucial, I wholeheartedly agree with you.
That is why that part of our negotiations, in my opinion, is so important.
They are not, but it places a great obligation on us, not only to maintain the integrity of our standards, but actively to go out and help and deliver assistance to poorer countries to enable them to meet those standards, meet those requirements, rather than simply shrink away from them and in the process, taking their goods and what they offer to our markets with them.
But what are the problems we have in the common agriculture policy?
Europe offers the most open markets in the world.
Of course it needs reform, and if I can just make the point about family farms to Mr Ó Neachtain, I want to protect small farmers, too, but let us remember in the context of our discussions about the future of the common agricultural policy – and I think I am right in saying this – that 75% of CAP payments go to farmers with above-average incomes.
So when we are talking about protecting small farmers and when we are talking about protecting the incomes and livelihoods of some of the less well off people you represent in Parliament, let us also remember that they too need reform of the common agricultural policy.
Yes, preserving the European model of agriculture, but not preserving the CAP in aspic for all time.
There is a huge amount to achieve for the most needy and the most deserving in our world, as well as countless millions of our own fellow citizens.
There is a lot at stake, a lot to play for and we are going to proceed on that basis towards eventual success. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement.
Commissioner Mandelson misinterprets me in supposing that I do not want to address the poverty that is in the world.
What is the case is that my group and I are giving some thought as to how we can enable people living in poverty to have a share in our prosperity.
I hope that Commissioner Mandelson will join us in entering more deeply into debate and thus be enabled to interpret our thinking better. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow.
