The communications that the Commissioner has presented to us, the last of which was on 1 December this year, make quite a fuss about the damage that tax evasion causes.
We gathered from his appearance here on 24 June that he was not thinking of embarking on an ambitious reform under any circumstances and that he would confine himself to the 'conventional measures'.
In 2007, Commissioner Kovács estimated total fiscal fraud to be two to two and a half times the European budget, or a sum between EUR 200 and 250 billion.
The share of VAT fraud in this is estimated at EUR 40 billion.
All of this is probably a major underestimate, for the Court of Auditors estimated the loss of VAT income in 2005 to be EUR 17 billion in Germany and 18.2 billion in the United Kingdom, together responsible for just over EUR 35 billion of lost VAT revenue.
This, too, is flawed, though, since only 24 Member States have lent their cooperation, and three of the major Member States, to wit Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom, have refused to cooperate.
The Ecofin Council of 7 October has launched a new mechanism, namely the Eurofisc mechanism, to improve cooperation between the Member States in the control of VAT fraud.
I firmly believe that the Commission should be involved in this new initiative.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the European Parliament and more especially the two rapporteurs, Mr García-Margallo y Marfil and Mr Staes, for the constructive reports they have presented on the delicate subject of the fight against VAT fraud within the European Union, in particular with regard to the Commission's first concrete proposal in this field.
The second category relates to measures intended to improve the effectiveness of tax authorities with a view to detecting VAT fraud.
I welcome the support given to the proposal for a regulation on mutual administrative assistance in the fight against fraud and, in particular, against VAT fraud.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, approximately 2.25% of the gross domestic product of the EU, in figures approximately EUR 200 billion a year - as Mr Staes has already said - is lost in value added tax evasion, circumvention and fraud.
And in this case the chickens are the Member States which are unable to crack down on international evasion of value added tax by means of administrative measures.
The mirror image differences in the statistics for intra-Community trade notified by the Commission in reply to my written question of 6 May, which are supposed to have amounted to the princely sum of EUR 77 billion in 2007, may also be an indication of value added tax fraud.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (SK) Colleagues, imagine that there was no tax evasion in the European Union.
If the funds acquired in this way were distributed fairly, every citizen of the European Union, including children and pensioners, would have EUR 500 more in their wallet every year.
One solution with a long-term positive effect in combating tax evasion would be the creation of a VAT system under which transactions between Member States would be taxed at a rate other than zero.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for the observations and points of view that you have expressed during this debate.
In fact, we can accept Amendments 4 and 7 of Mr García-Margallo y Marfil's report.
I apologise for proceeding in this way but I am not, as you will have noticed and as you know, the responsible Commissioner, and I am therefore far less expansive on these issues, which are extremely challenging for me, than on others.
The Committee on Legal Affairs duly issued its opinion in good time and, in a rare show of unanimity, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs approved the report that we are debating today.
The speed with which Parliament has acted on this really important topic, as my fellow Members have pointed out, has not been matched by enthusiasm in either the Commission or the Council.
What I described in my earlier speech was a story of declining ambition, from the most absolute proposals to conventional measures, to a package of measures from which only two, the most modest of them, are selected.
rapporteur. - (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I can only endorse what Mr García-Margallo y Marfil had to say.
We would end up with a fund of EUR 60 billion in the Member States and in the European Union.
The vote will take place on Thursday 4 December 2008 at 12 noon.
For instance in Germany in the year 2005 the loss was approximately EUR 17 billion and in the United Kingdom in the 2005-2006 tax year it was over EUR 18 billion.
in writing . - (PL) The report on combating tax evasion in relation to intra Community transactions is a very significant legal act.
