Presentation by the Council of the draft general budget - Budget 2009 (debate) The next item is the debate on the presentation by the Council of the draft general budget for 2009.
Secondly, because the draft budget for 2009, which I am presenting to you today, was adopted unanimously by the Council on 17 July.
I can assure you that the Council is prepared to continue this high-quality dialogue with a view to securing an agreement on the 2009 budget that is satisfactory to all.
This agreement should comply with three principles: the first is to ensure the financing of the European Union's policy priorities - and we have established a financial framework for the period from 2007 to 2013 that we must implement in order to achieve our objectives in terms of competitiveness, cohesion and growth.
Budget implementation is improving thanks to the efforts made by Commissioner Dalia Grybauskaité, but uncertainties related to the financial year 2009 clearly remain considerable and there is no evidence, at this point, to suggest that 2009 will be any different from previous years.
The European Council of 19 and 20 June provided a strong political impetus by welcoming the Commission's intention to come forward with a proposal for a new fund to support agriculture in developing countries.
However, the European Council mandate is quite explicit in this respect: it is in strict compliance with the current financial perspective that a solution has to be found.
Nevertheless, the Council will evaluate the proposal adopted by the Commission on 18 July from this perspective.
Finally, I would remind you that the European Council reaffirmed only yesterday its readiness to support reconstruction efforts in Georgia, including in areas of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, in addition to the EUR 6 million in emergency aid that have already been disbursed.
I should now like to present to you the main thrust of the 2009 draft budget established by the Council.
We are proposing a budget of EUR 134 billion in commitment appropriations, which amounts to EUR 469 million less than in the preliminary draft budget.
The increase in commitment appropriations therefore amounts to 2.8% compared to 2008 and, as a result, the EU's overall commitment capabilities are maintained.
The draft budget therefore amounts to EUR 115 billion in payment appropriations.
The reduction in the level of payment appropriations in 2009 does not - and I should like to emphasise this point - come as a surprise.
If the ceiling on payment appropriations in 2009 is far lower than that in 2008 and 2010, this can be explained, in particular, by movements in appropriations for the cohesion policy, which will be affected in 2009 by the end of the 2000-2006 programming period and by a gradual increase during the 2007-2013 programming period.
Therefore, out of 433 programmes, there are only two, in Hungary, for which interim payments have been made.
The level of payment appropriations in our draft budget is therefore realistic and adapted to the needs of the Union.
The Council has limited the increase in commitment appropriations on the basis of the analysis of the potential of programmes to be implemented, as I have already said.
With regard to heading 1b, 'Cohesion for growth and employment', the Council has accepted the amount of commitment appropriations proposed by the Commission in the preliminary draft budget.
For payment appropriations, we adopted a balanced approach by introducing, on the one hand, an increase of EUR 50 million for convergence countries and regions and, on the other, a reduction of EUR 300 million in the area of regional competitiveness.
This means a reasonable overall reduction of EUR 250 million in payment appropriations, and I am delighted that we were able to agree on a joint statement on the Structural and Cohesion Funds as well as on the rural development programmes.
With regard to the heading 'Conservation and management of natural resources', the Council has adopted a limited reduction of EUR 382 million in commitment appropriations and of EUR 497 million in payment appropriations.
With regard to heading 3, 'Citizenship, freedom, security and justice', the Council has made a slight increase in the margins available under the ceilings to reach a total of EUR 76 million by making targeted reductions of EUR 20 million in commitment appropriations.
We have therefore set aside additional resources, compared to the preliminary draft budget, of EUR 100 million for Palestine and EUR 60 million for Kosovo.
Regarding the CFSP, the Council has accepted, as a precautionary measure, the commitment and payment appropriations which were entered in the preliminary draft budget and which are in line with the amounts provided for in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006.
As for payment appropriations, the reduction made amounts to EUR 393 million, but half of this reduction relates to the reserve for emergency aid and, as you know, the Council considers that it may be possible to finance this reserve by redeploying payment appropriations, as has been seen in recent years.
The margin available under heading 5 therefore amounts to EUR 224 million.
In conclusion, I therefore feel that the 2009 draft budget represents a balance between the ambitions that we naturally all have for our European Union and sound budgeting for which we are answerable to the citizens.
The view of this House will probably be different, but we are only at the beginning of the budgetary procedure and we still have plenty of time to harmonise our views on the structure of the 2009 budget and to respond to the challenges facing us as a result of the Commission's new proposals.
I am sure that the three institutions will therefore make every effort so that, between now and conciliation in November - in two months' time - we can reach a comprehensive agreement on all these issues, and I hope that this agreement will be the best possible compromise for both the institutions and European citizens.
We had begun the budgetary procedure and discussions on the procedure and on our budget for 2009 at the start of the year.
rapporteur. - (PL) Mr President, in autumn we embark, as usual, on the decisive phase of the budget procedure, this time for the year 2009.
Obviously the uncertainty as to the fate of the Lisbon Treaty affecting the budget for 2009 does not excuse us from applying the other principles governing establishment of the expenditure plan for 2009.
Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Budgets. - (FI) Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, first of all I would like to say how thankful I am that next year's draft budget is now before Parliament.
At the same time I wish to say how sorry I am that our Committee's chairman, Reimer Böge, cannot be present at the debate, as he has important obligations in his country at the same time.
The Council has cut the budget further by a total of EUR 500 million in commitment appropriations and EUR 1.8 billion in payment appropriations.
It is quite clear that heading 1 in the budget needs to be looked at in particular, but so does heading 4, which seems to be chronically underfunded from one year to the next.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we will have four main blocks of problems in our negotiations.
The second block of problems is concentrated in Heading 4, and here I would like to mention three elements: additional resources for Kosovo and Palestine; the emergency aid reserve, especially as there will be needs requiring a fast response this year and next year; and of course the upcoming donors' conference to help Georgia, and here - at least today - we do not yet have a decision on the table.
This means that for the Commission, at this stage and with these proposals, it will not be possible to recruit additional staff, although 250 enlargement-related posts have been approved.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, firstly, thank you for this discussion.
