The Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Napoletano, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean.
Madam President, Mrs FerreroWaldner, Mr Vondra, ladies and gentlemen, with this report, Parliament is proposing to make a constructive contribution to the prospect of strengthening the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
The proposals resulting from the Paris summit on 14 July last year put forward two objectives that are worthy of our support.
Parliament wants to help find a way out of the serious stalemate that has followed the tragic events in Gaza.
Nonetheless, I would like to point out that the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly will meet in the near future and demonstrate the role that parliaments have to play, even in this difficult situation.
I know that Parliament follows this with particular interest.
Pasqualina Napoletano is to be commended in particular.
The Paris Summit last July created the Union for the Mediterranean and established a partnership built on the existing Barcelona Process.
The current rotating presidency gives priority to strengthening this partnership.
There are two particular areas of cooperation which I know are important to this Parliament and which we also fully support.
The Anna Lindh Foundation has a particularly important role to play in this area.
We intend to use the opportunity of the Donor Conference on Gaza, which will be held on 2 March in Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt, for further consideration by the three Ministers of Foreign Affairs: Karel Schwarzenberg, the Czech Foreign Minister; Bernard Kouchner, the French Foreign Minister; and the Foreign Minister of Egypt.
It is true the Union for the Mediterranean's role is to develop the joint nature, at an institutional and political level, of a regional partnership in need of a relaunch.
This is the spirit in which we are working, with the firm conviction that, on all these issues, the European Commission will be able to rely on your collaboration, and I would like to thank you for this in advance.
A lot of work has been done already, in fact, and when the Commission is working, it takes it very seriously.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on International Trade. - (DE) Mr President, Mrs Napoletano, ladies and gentlemen, the Union for the Mediterranean should revive the Barcelona Process, which was launched in 1995.
International trade could have a beneficial effect not only on the economic but also - and particularly - on the political and social situation in the region.
Regional economic integration is crucial in this regard.
Communicating the benefits of economic integration to local citizens will play an important role in this.
I wish to see this for the sake of us all, particularly the citizens in the region.
I began by quoting Paul Valéry; permit me to finish by citing a verse by Paul Valéry as well: 'Tu n'as que moi pour contenir tes craintes!'.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate Mrs Napoletano for her efforts and the balance she has brought to this issue, and thank Mrs FerreroWaldner, who is always attentive to our work, for the important job she is doing around the world.
Without her work and her impetus, we would not have been able to imagine firstly a Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Forum, or subsequently a Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, and we would not now be in a position to demand the role that the representatives of citizens should have in what we are trying to set up.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I also wish to congratulate Ms Napoletano, not only on the excellent report she has produced, but also for the valuable cooperation she has offered to the shadow rapporteurs.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wholeheartedly support any initiative aimed at developing the Union for the Mediterranean.
I support the proposal to create a Euro-Mediterranean Regional and Local Assembly along the lines of similar, European, institutions, in order to involve regions and cities further, and a Euro-Mediterranean Economic and Social Committee to involve the social partners and civil society.
The results have been much more modest, especially in the fields of human rights, democracy and the environment.
Secondly, I would like to say that as shadow rapporteur, I have asked my group not to vote in favour of this report, for two fundamental reasons.
We have done a lot on this issue.
Everyone wants to do more and better in this territory where 720 million citizens represent real potential for development and peace in the world.
Responding to the growth crises naturally requires a political response, but responding to the humanitarian crises, to emergency situations and to military crises, such as the one witnessed at the end of 2008 and beginning of 2009, is crucial.
On the other hand, the report does contain clear recommendations on the second and third mistakes, and these are all heading in the right direction.
There are also clear rules on the programme agreements and a Euro-Mediterranean Investment Bank.
The 'Union for the Mediterranean' initiative therefore deserves our support as it can give new impetus to a process that is necessary and useful, but which has not had the requisite success or visibility.
It is very important that this is not just some sort of regional hive-off in which the rest of the EU is not fully involved - as I hope they will be fully involved in the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea. (RO) The economic and social development and prosperity of the citizens from the states in the Union for the Mediterranean must be sustainable.
The objectives are certainly noble: environment, energy, the fight against desertification, immigration, etc.
However, if you would allow me, Commissioner, I would like to mention a particular country that is not a Mediterranean coastal state but has been included; it is an ACP country and also a member of the Union for the Mediterranean.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, first of all, thank you very much for this useful debate, which brought forward a number of ideas.
The programme of our activities for 2009 is very substantial: about nine sectoral ministerial conferences are scheduled.
There are certain realities related to the situation in Gaza which have caused some delays, but I believe we will be able to overcome that.
Firstly, I can tell you that the Community dimension is important in this issue, because the Union for the Mediterranean project is based on the Barcelona process and has also inherited the acquis of the Barcelona process.
Now, we - the Commission - are also managing all the future Community projects, because it is necessary and because we are also under Parliament's control.
The secretariat, which will be located in Barcelona, will promote the projects.
As for Mauritania, Mrs Isler Béguin, it participates only in multilateral relations, namely the Union for the Mediterranean, but is not involved in the neighbourhood policy.
In total, the Union for the Mediterranean can now benefit from financial support worth EUR 60 million in the 2008-2009 budget, particularly via regional programmes.
Mr President, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, Mr Vondra, ladies and gentlemen, I think this debate has been very useful and has clarified certain aspects of our fairly complicated system of instruments for bilateral and multilateral partnership with the countries of the south.
I subscribe to the explanation Mrs Ferrero-Waldner gave, pointing out that the Barcelona acquis remains in place, and that for precisely this reason, we in Parliament would perhaps have preferred the first definition, which was: 'The Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean'.
This is something we have all worked towards, and so we give our wholehearted support not only to the fact that the regional programmes should continue but also, as the Commissioner knows, that Parliament attaches great importance to these programmes, which have arguably produced better results.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 19 February 2009.
Written statements (Rule 142) Close partnership between the European Union and the countries of the Mediterranean Basin should be based, first and foremost, on respect for human rights and the rule of law.
The proposal entitled 'Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean', adopted in Paris on 13 July 2008, contributes towards peace and prosperity and may be an important step towards economic and territorial integration, as well as ecological and climatic cooperation.
All States taking part in the Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean should ratify both the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) and all other United Nations and International Labour Organisation human rights instruments as soon as possible.
The EU has to take care and find a common spirit in developing all these regions in a balanced manner.
Only by being balanced can we contribute to achieving long-term peace in Middle-East.
