Airbus/Boeing WTO disputes (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on the Airbus/Boeing WTO disputes by Helmuth Markov, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade - B6-0155/2008).
The United States has criticised the way in which the EU and the Member States involved in the EADS consortium have subsidised the introduction of new large aircraft over the last 20 years.
I assume that the decision will be that both parties have violated applicable WTO rules.
Fourth, it is regrettable that the 1992 EU-US Agreement on Large Civil Aircraft was not sufficient to achieve a negotiated solution instead of a court ruling.
The economic crisis and the rise in the price of oil are having more drastic effects on the air transport system than we have ever experienced before.
Sixth, as far as matters of public procurement are concerned, my personal opinion is that it would be more appropriate not to include this important sector of the economy fully in the WTO system.
The US Air Force has determined that the plane offered by Northrop Grumman and the EADS is superior to the Boeing and is the best tanker to meet its needs.
The Air Force and Department of Defense have indicated that the KC-45 best meets the USAF's requirements.
In general, the government support for aerospace meets the need that certain developments in the large civil aircraft industry require very high levels of investment.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one reason why we wish to have a debate this evening and that is that the attacks from the American side, by both Boeing and many members of Congress, on the awarding of the contract to Northrop Grumman/EADS are very bitter and even go as far as to target individual Member States.
The frustration is directed against the fact that Northrop Grumman/EADS presented a better offer, to which the US Air Force gave preference over a Boeing model in a public tender.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, for some years now the market for the manufacture of large aircraft has been virtually bipolar.
Airbus and Boeing rule the roost.
Meanwhile, from the European side, we also hear serious reservations regarding the vast amount of state aid given to Boeing in the form of tax breaks provided by the states of Illinois, Kansas and Washington, as well as aid from the army and NASA within the framework of public procurement.
According to my calculations, over 15 years the world will require some 36 000 modern, safe civil aircraft.
It is hard to say for sure who will come out on top, Boeing or Airbus, but let us also bear in mind that Russia is starting to feature in this market, and Russia too practises government subvention.
What is really behind the unfair competition in this case is the weak dollar.
In view of the fact that the US Congress has already supported Boeing on numerous occasions, and bearing in mind that the infringement of the tanker agreement undermines the position of the European aircraft manufacturer, the unflagging support of the European Union as a whole - the Member States, the Commission and Parliament - is more crucial than ever.
In 2004 the United States broke that agreement by referring the whole matter to the WTO.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 9 July 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) Following the debate that we had on this issue of the Boeing complaint against Airbus before the WTO, and in response to the US Senate resolution on the same subject, I am pleased to see that we are today defending a resolution that will ensure the European Parliament's support for Airbus.
The European Parliament must call for a fair and swift end to the dispute while making a public show of support for Airbus.
