I hope that during the discussions this week and when the ad-hoc mission goes to the Republic of Moldova, but especially through the resolution which we are expecting at the final session in May, the European Parliament will send out a very clear message that the European Union does not tolerate human rights violations and will openly call for the elections in the Republic of Moldova to be rerun. (PL) Mr President, on the morning of Good Friday, 13 April, before dawn, a huge tragedy occurred in the Polish town of Kamień Pomorski near Szczecin.
Over 20 people, including children, were burned alive in a building.
May this fire and its victims be a great cry of warning for the future. (HU) In the speech I made on 23 March, I asked the European Parliament and the European Commission to intervene to protect the Romanian town of Verespatak (Roşia Montană) whose vulnerable population, architectural heritage and natural environment are under threat as a result of plans by a Canadian-Romanian joint venture to develop a mine.
There was no kidnapping, either on 9 April or ever.
The rumour has been deliberately spread by Fiat in an attempt to discredit the workers, who are trying to protect their future in the face of 24 lay-offs.
The sole aim is to lay off 24 workers, 12 of whom are trade unions representatives.
The second is the EU response to the procedural breach by the Moldovan authorities in implementing their agreements with us and by discriminating against European citizens on nationality grounds.
Newspapers reported publicly last November that one of our Members, Den Dover, had paid expenses worth GBP 750 000 intended for the employment of staff to a company owned by his wife and daughter and had used some of this money for the purchase of expensive cars and for other matters of personal gain.
It recalls the Katyń Massacre, the murder of thousands of Polish officers - held as prisoners of war in camps at Ostaszków, Starobielsko and Kozielsko - sentenced to death in March 1940 on the orders of Lavrenty Beria.
Unfortunately, the Katyń Massacre and its perpetrators have still not been judged and sentenced.
Adoption by our Parliament of the written declaration on the proclamation of 23 August as European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism nevertheless inspires hope.
Mr President, I understand that Mr Davies may have made a speech about a situation concerning myself, and, therefore, I would like the right of reply on that matter.
Although our Parliament adopted in both 2004 and 2005 a resolution in response to the physical and psychological attacks carried out against non-Serb inhabitants of this area and also took the exemplary action of sending a fact-finding delegation to the area in 2005, incidences of violence, intimidation and humiliation against the minorities living there, primarily Hungarians, are not only continuing, but seem to be getting worse.
That must not be the outcome of this speech, and therefore I believe that we must strive once again - as Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has also requested - to ensure that all 27 EU Member States and the EU as a unit actually support the final document arrived at there to help the millions of people in the world who are affected by racism and discrimination.
In this House we have adopted 11 reports on the subject of gender equality over the last five years.
Last week President Voronin of Moldova even declared that he wants to withdraw from this Eastern Partnership so that he can push ahead with the unwelcome actions which he is taking against human rights in Moldova.
He is also threatening moderate Islam in the West and spreading negative stereotypes about it.
Non-democratic regimes remain in perpetual fear, which is why they persecute journalists, imprison and torture them, and even kill them. (HU) On 1 May it will be five years since we became members of the European Union, together with numerous other Central and Eastern European countries.
This is why I call on the EU's commissioner for linguistic diversity to intervene and put linguistic diversity into practice in Slovakia too. (HU) The 10 new Member States have been in the European Union for five years.
This is why I believe that we can say that these five years have been a very sharp learning curve.
I only need to mention the fact that farmers from new Member States are receiving yet again this year only 60% of what farmers in the old Member States receive.
I should also add that joining the EU was a win-win situation and I would therefore like to thank the European Parliament for welcoming us new Member States.
