Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me start by thanking Parliament, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and in particular the rapporteur, Ms Jeggle, for this constructive report on the milk mini-package.
The first concerns the Directive on preserved milk, in which we now allow standardisation of the protein content, totally in line with the Codex standards.
Not only industry and trade, but also milk producers - our farmers - stand to benefit because this standardisation of protein can yield a higher valorisation of the milk.
These include the proposal to reduce the intervention price for skimmed milk powder as a mathematical result of lower protein content owing to standardisation.
I hope that an agreement between Parliament, the Council and the Commission can be found on the increased aid level for school milk, up EUR 18.15 per 100 kilograms.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, everyone is talking about the good and stable market situation for milk and milk products at the moment and the resulting rise in milk prices.
In this report, the Commission proposes standardising the protein content at a minimum of 34%, expressed in fat-free dry matter.
Given the nutritional importance of school milk, however, the aid for products falling within that regulation should be increased substantially, from EUR 16.11 per 100 kg to EUR 18.15 per 100 kg.
I would be quite prepared to discuss that too in the context of the Health Check debate.
This measure is intended to facilitate our proposed milk fund programme.
The resources could be used, in the context of promoting milk sector sales, for better nutritional information and also for further accompanying measures such as modernising milk production, in areas where conditions are more difficult and in mountainous regions.
These two draft amendments, like this third report, were also adopted unanimously in committee.
The third draft amendment refers only to school milk, which would go against what we want, namely to improve supply of the entire range of products.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating Mrs Jeggle on her three reports - the mini-milk package.
Until quite recently, of the 27 EU Member States, only Slovakia, Estonia, Hungary and Lithuania had lower milk prices than the UK, and the result has been that in the last five years in my constituency in Scotland we have lost around 500 dairy farmers.
It is only now as world cereal prices - in particular wheat - have almost doubled, forcing up the price of feed, and as pressure on productive farmland grows for biofuels and other non-food crops, that some supermarkets have finally begun to panic at the prospect of an actual milk shortage and, as a result, have started paying dairy farmers a slightly higher price.
The price crisis in agricultural produce has resurrected the debate on the issue of agricultural food production in Europe.
Indeed, yield last season was the lowest of the last 15 years.
In my opinion we should not merely hope, as I have read in your blog, that the competitiveness of European farmers in world markets will not be too badly affected, but react rapidly to prevent that from becoming the case.
These measures seem positive ones and I want to thank Commissioner Fischer Boel for these reforms.
It is because of these that the 1 300 million kilo butter mountain, which we still had at the end of the 1980s, has melted away and at the same time it has been possible to guarantee consumers a steady supply and diverse range of agricultural produce.
With these observations, we would like to support the reports presented.
While supporting the solutions contained in the reports prepared by Mrs Jeggle, I would however like to remind Commissioner Fischer Boel that a serious debate is needed on the subject of the amounts and the future of the milk production quotas that are in force in the European Union, since these are glaringly unjust, especially for the new Member States.
A country such as Poland, with 38 million inhabitants, has a quota of about 9 million tonnes, giving 0.23 tonnes per inhabitant, whereas this amount is 0.33 tonnes in Germany, 0.39 tonnes in France and as much as 0.67 tons in the Netherlands.
Now national and EU competition authorities must intervene forcefully on the side of farmers who, because of de facto abuses of dominant positions in the market by supermarkets in particular, are continuing to receive a pittance for their quality products.
We also agree that there should be very clear rules on labelling drinking milk, as it seems to us quite right that the fat content should be included in the so-called 'product description'.
Lastly, a note on the times we live in, when milk production is failing to meet current demand because of the need to support less prosperous farmers and milk producers and increase milk subsidies in the areas most in need, notably in Portugal, bearing in mind that in the islands in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, for example, milk production could be increased without expanding the stock density and that this is an extremely remote region where the conditions for milk production are excellent. (SK) In the context of the dairy 'mini-reform' being debated, I would like to put special emphasis on the need to adopt at this sitting Amendments 5 and 7 to the Regulation on the common organisation of the market in milk.
Amendment 5 provides for a single rate of aid of EUR 18.15/100 kg of all milk in the school milk scheme.
Amendment 7 sets out the main objectives of the milk fund restructuring programme.
The objectives of this programme, such as strengthening nutrition awareness measures and increasing milk consumption, as well as modernising milk production for example in mountain regions, are an incentive for the new Member States in particular.
After all, in recent years many new Member States have seen an incredible reduction in milk production and in the number of cattle of more than 50%.
The mini milk package is an important step not just for European farming and the milk sector, but above all for promoting the use of milk in nutrition.
The healthy development of our children is determined by the supply of healthy foods, such as local milk products.
The advertising budget contained in the mini milk package will increase people's awareness, which will in turn benefit the population as a whole.
That shortage is already having and will continue to have serious effects on the prices of milk and hence milk products, as well as on the prices of various other food products.
The Commissioner knows that better than anyone.
I would like to address an important political aspect that some colleagues have already discussed: school milk.
Here the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has called for an increase from EUR 16.11 to EUR 18.11 per 100 kg.
I also welcome the standardisation of the protein content of milk and milk production because it allows European producers to enter into fair competition with their third-country competitors, given that competition is a basic liberal concern.
Yet we must also be honest with our citizens.
A particularly important part of the battle for healthy food is to provide support for agricultural production in mountainous areas.
This is particularly important when giving milk to children.
General De Gaulle made a connection between this great diversity of products and his country's governability. 'How can you govern a country which has 246 kinds of cheese?' he asked rhetorically.
What this French observation might mean for a European Union of 27 Member States and no doubt thousands of kinds of cheese, well, we won't go into that this evening.
In the new Member States it has so far been possible to deviate from the EU regulations on fat content, due to the hard-won derogations, but it is good news that after 2009 we will still be able to consume the milk products to which we are well accustomed.
In this context the proposal from the European Commission to abolish the tolerance of plus or minus 0.2% for the fat content in milk for human consumption in relation to the value given on the packaging is unacceptable.
We cannot have a situation where, for example, Germany, with 80 million inhabitants, has a milk quota of over 28 600 000 tonnes, whereas Poland, with 38 million inhabitants, has less than 9 million tonnes.
The announcement that milk quotas are to disappear has by itself created a situation of uncertainty among producers, as the Commissioner is well aware, and the quota market has been crippled as a result, making for a significant slowdown in the restructuring required in the sector, at least in Spain.
They are concerned with the creation of a milk fund that will support reforming activities in this sector, such as the promotion of milk consumption, including consumption in schools, or support for milk production in mountainous areas.
Let us pave the way for the abolition of quotas by 2015 - this is what farmers are waiting for.
I also thank the Commissioner for the proposals that form the basis of our discussion today.
The crucial debate on milk will take place in connection with the Health Check.
In the second report, I find it welcome that the 27 national quality classes for butter are to be removed and replaced with a single, Europe-wide quality definition.
It is better to make milk and milk products tasty for our children than to have to discuss alcohol abuse among young people, as was the case today.
Here I would insist to the Commissioner that the +/- 0.2% tolerance margin is far too high.
That is urgently necessary to ensure that our dairy farmers are rewarded better for working 365 days a year.
If the consumer has to pay 10 cents more, that comes to 50 cents a week and surely we should consider milk production in Europe worth that much. (RO) Mr President, dear colleagues, the measure of simplifying the common milk market is, also from the Member States' perspective, a great initiative that brings the European Union closer to the farmers' real needs.
It should also include a financing line for improving quality, according to which many farmers in the new Member States cannot sell their production any more after 2009.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking those of you who are still present for a constructive debate.
It was very interesting to see that a German newspaper made a very quick study, concluding that in order to buy one litre of milk a person had to work for 11 minutes in 1960 and only 3 minutes in 2006.
We all know that the milk-quota system is due to end by 31 March 2015.
I am quite sure that we will have a huge opportunity to have some very interesting discussions, including as regards the dairy sector in a broader context, throughout the next 12 months.
in writing. - (SV) Many times in this Chamber the June List has had strong political objections to reports that have come from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
The report on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products is another report from that committee which stubbornly maintains continued protection of heavy subsidies for all the different groups in the agricultural sector and continued protectionism against the outside world.
