Serbia has so far failed to honour its domestic and international duty to arrest four remaining fugitive war crime indictees, including Mladić and Karadžić, who stand accused of orchestrating the slaughter of nearly 8 000 civilians in Srebrenica.
I visited Srebrenica before preparing this report.
In May, a new pro-European government took office, with ICTY cooperation as one of its key objectives.
I also welcome the fact that the Government moved against, arrested and delivered two of the six most wanted fugitives, Tolimir and Djordjevic.
This is why the EU cannot afford to waive its conditionality at this crucial juncture.
There is firm political support in the Council for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to be signed as soon as the necessary conditions are met.
The ability for people in Serbia to travel more easily to the European Union would also reinforce the ties between us and undoubtedly contribute to the democratisation process and to the pro-European Union sentiment in Serbian society.
The visa facilitation and readmission agreements which were signed in September and which will enter into force in January 2008 are, in our opinion, vitally important.
The EU has also made it clear to Serbia that its integration process is not linked to the issue of determining the future status of Kosovo.
In fact, every country moves towards becoming a member of the European Union on its own merits and in accordance with the conditions of the stabilisation and association process and the Copenhagen criteria.
I have asked my services to follow up on the recommendations of the report, which has already been useful in the preparation of the Commission's annual progress report, due to be adopted on 6 November.
The deadline of 10 December for Kosovo talks is fast approaching, and the work of the international troika is entering a crucial phase.
We fully support the work of the EU's representative, Ambassador Wolfgang Ischinger, and we will leave no stone unturned in seeking a negotiated solution.
The Commission is fully committed to Serbia's European perspective.
In this area, the country's political elite has a great deal of work to do.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, with winter just around the corner, the political atmosphere in Serbia is heating up.
That is why, by participating in the preparation of this report, the PSE Group is trying especially to grasp the situation of a nation that lost a privileged position in the former Yugoslav Federation, a nation where nationalist outbreaks have damaged the entire region, wrecked many lives, claimed a number of victims and received bombs and rockets in reply.
We are of the position that Kosovo is a separate problem, which is why it remains almost untouched in this report.
Full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague is an important prerequisite.
Progress has been made; two out of the six most wanted war criminals have been handed over, but the most serious war criminals, Mladić and Karadžić, are still at large.
The biggest test of strength for both Serbia and Europe is the issue of settling the status of Kosovo.
It will send out a clear message at international level that Serbian membership of the EU is on the current political agenda.
As with all relationships between countries that are in close proximity to each other, there will still be difficulties in the future with regard to how Serbia will deal with the issue of Kosovo, their ongoing cooperation with the International War Crimes Tribunal, and in particular with regard to their relationships with other neighbouring countries that were formally part of Yugoslavia.
And look at what the European Union has delivered in the past - over EUR 165 million in the reconstruction effort.
The issue that we must all remember is that the Balkans War continues to be a huge psychological scar on the development, not just of Serbia, but of other countries.
Our role and our duty is to ensure that we act as a good neighbour, as a faithful teacher of how best things can happen, but also to reward the good things that have happened.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, first of all, I would like to extend my warm thanks to the rapporteur for his sound and comprehensive work.
We very much welcome the fact that the European Parliament makes clear and regular contributions to the political debate about the situation in South-East Europe.
However, it takes at least two to build a partnership, and so I appeal to Serbia to continue along the path towards EU integration and to play a constructive role in the resolution of the Kosovo issue.
I have great understanding for the difficult and painful position in which Serbia finds itself, but I repeat, it takes at least two to build a partnership.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Mr President, as in any country that has lost a recent war resulting in the loss of territory and influence, nationalistic feelings of superiority also enjoy strong support in Serbia.
Rather than isolating and punishing Serbia because the war criminal Ratko Mladić cannot be found, it should be offered a future in which guarantees are also established for the ethnic minorities in Vojvodina, Sandžak and Preševo.
My Group supports the efforts of the Kacin report towards overtures with a view to Serbian membership of the European Union.
Unfortunately, paragraph 8 added by the Committee on Foreign Affairs pre-empts the decision on Kosovo.
After 10 December, Kosovo will probably be unilaterally recognised as a state by America and a number of Member States of the European Union, and Serbia will unilaterally take back the northern part of Kosovo.
This is why we do not share at all the confidence that the future status of Kosovo can only contribute to stability and integration.
While this groundless optimism in paragraph 8 is maintained, my Group is withdrawing its support for this report.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, this report's opening sentence is: '...
the future of Serbia lies in the European Union'.
the future of all countries in the region lies in the EU'.
The countries of the region are of course Croatia, Kosovo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and Albania.
The treatment inflicted on the Serbs in Kosovo is a warning to all the peoples of Europe.
In other words, Serbia's path to the EU is already mapped out and Serbia has the capacity, but it does need to make efforts of its own.
After the embargo and the NATO bombing - and the Serbs have Mr Milošević to thank for both of them, not the democratic forces which are in government today - young people now face another intractable problem, namely Kosovo.
Substantial progress has also been made in terms of cooperation with the ICTY.
That is what young Serbs need, and that is what Serbia needs as well. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, first I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr Kacin, for an excellent, thorough report.
The report mentions the difficult problems which thwart relations between the EU and Serbia, but it also highlights many positive factors which have emerged in Serbia's development.
There has been positive experience of this with many countries in the context, for example, of the Erasmus Mundus and Leonardo da Vinci programmes.
We must ensure that the agreement takes effect before the end of the year, at the same time as we speed up visa processing and develop support action to increase travel opportunities for young people and professionals in particular.
In this way, we can encourage Serbia and other countries in the region to enjoy closer relations with the European Union. (PL) The report refers to recent changes in Serbia.
Despite promises made, Radko Mladić has not been arrested and handed over to the Tribunal in The Hague.
It is important for the European Union that Serbia develops towards democracy and it is important that we, the European Union, acknowledge that process and, where possible, support it.
It is the same endeavour being undertaken at present in other EU institutions, in particular in the Council.
That is why I find it incomprehensible and not good that up to now the link - which I believe is a real link, everyone knows that - between the Serbian position in the negotiations on Kosovo and Serbia's route in the direction of Europe is not made.
The citizens of the EU and Serbia are entitled to that. (EL) Mr President, the EU shares responsibility for the unjust and dirty war waged by NATO against Yugoslavia.
Those who should be arrested, tried and sentenced for war crimes are Bill Clinton, Tony Blair, Javier Solana (the former NATO Secretary General) and the other leaders of the countries that attacked Yugoslavia.
Yugoslavia has been dismantled; you are creating protectorates and you are now trying to annex Serbia.
I think we should at least undertake what we ourselves have set out as regards this report.
Thank you. (FR) Mr President, the Kacin report deals with Serbia, not Kosovo, and not with what will happen after December.
It is also true to say that it does not link Serbia's reaction to the Kosovo issue to the promise of accession to the European Union.
It is true that there is one question that is constantly raised, namely the International Criminal Tribunal and Serbia's cooperation with it.
I take the view that the issue of nationalism, this culture of impunity, with four wanted criminals - and not small fry either - still running around free in Serbia, is intolerable.
Finally I would add, even though we are not discussing Kosovo, that the Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, who visited the European Parliament several weeks ago, reaffirmed to us that whatever happened about Kosovo his country had no intention of resorting to arms.
This may have far-reaching consequences for our continent in the future.
The ongoing democratisation of political life in Serbia must surely be welcomed by all.
Only then will Serbia turn to the Union in preference to other powers, and stabilise the region at the same time. (DE) Mr President, the future of the former Yugoslav republic of Serbia lies in Europe.
I find it hard to stomach that war criminals such as Mladić and Karadžić still have so many sympathisers, not only among the general public but also among the police, the military and many public office-holders in Serbia: in other words, the very people with whom we will soon be negotiating Serbia's closer relations with the EU.
The Kosovo issue, too, must be viewed separately in formal terms, but I find this nationalist stonewalling very unhelpful.
That will become apparent after 10 December.
The level of cooperation on the issue of Kosovo will thus be one of the factors which is either more helpful or more of a hindrance to Serbia's closer relations with the EU, and Belgrade should take note of that fact. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, last year Serbia went through some significant changes which I am convinced were also successfully negotiated.
This would be a significant step on the path to Serbia's EU membership.
As has already been mentioned today several times, the condition for this is Serbia's cooperation with the ICTY.
This collaboration is evidence of Serbia's clear interest in developing and sustaining good relationships with its regional neighbours. (PL) Mr President, Serbia is a European country that has made considerable progress towards integration into the European Union over the last few years.
One could of course mention a number of problems that may not actually be greater in Serbia than they are in Albania or in Bosnia-Herzegovina, although it seems we are prepared to turn a blind eye in the case of the latter two countries.
It should be made very clear to Serbia, however, that its place is within the European Union and that it will be easier for us to work with Serbia if it is inside the Union rather than if it remains outside.
That much seems obvious to me. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Serbian authorities must show greater commitment to cooperating with the Prosecutor, Carla Del Ponte, so as to ensure that the war criminals are caught.
We must also see to it that the Serbian Government renews its commitment to a climate of peaceful coexistence among all the ethnic groups living in the land.
The Ministry of the Interior has already been undertaking initiatives to prevent and control inter-ethnic incidents in Vojvodina since 2004, but the participation of minorities in social life and their proper institutional representation must be promoted.
Here we have Kosovo, which presents a huge risk; according to Council of Europe intelligence estimates, around 100 000 refugees, Serb refugees, are expected to leave Kosovo, and it will be largely Vojvodina that has to deal with this situation.
All in all, therefore, the Balkans need the European Union, because the spirit, principles and institutional system of the European Union, and the fact that it is consistent - and I lay particular emphasis on the latter - will be able to bring about a life that is liveable.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have naturally followed this debate with great interest and I have of course taken note of the suggestions and concerns that many Members have voiced.
This is absolutely accepted as the Council has repeatedly asserted that the future of Serbia naturally lies in its future membership of the European Union.
However, these conditions also of course relate to Serbia's essential cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal.
Much has been done by Serbia in this respect to cooperate with the Tribunal.
We must also offer future prospects to the youth of Serbia as it is naturally through and with them that a democratic Serbia can be built which fully shares our values and principles and which aspires to be an integral part of the European Union.
The majority of Serbian citizens support and endorse this development.
I hope that the Serbian government will now use its keys and implement the will of the Serbian people - the will of the Serbs to turn towards the European Union.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 25 October 2007.
