Mr President, I can confirm what Mr Posselt has just said.
To put it in terms that we can all agree on, let us say that this is the last Strasbourg part-session of the second millennium, and we shall see what happens in the third.
In the evening, we were unable to explain to them why this Parliament voted with only 170 Members in attendance.
This issue requires considerable sensitivity on our part, and we must strive to create that intergenerational solidarity which is essential if we are to produce worthwhile, substantial holistic policies and bring about social security and social protection and, most importantly, to ensure that the idea that elderly people are not a burden on society becomes part of the cultural consciousness of society and that they are regarded as a resource: first and foremost a human resource but also a social resource, a cultural resource and, lastly, that it is recognised that the elderly have a great legacy of experience to pass on to future generations.
We feel that a policy which actively tackles the issue of ageing population, which regards the elderly not as people who are about to die but as people who want and intend to remain alive - alive in their affections, alive in their professional capacities, alive in the will to communicate at all levels not just their feelings but also their professionalism and their experience - is the best way to create and develop new policies, in particular to encourage social cohesion and intergenerational solidarity.
We were delighted that the European Council in Nice adopted the social agenda and we hope that the Member States will take this opportunity to promote the development and coordination of social security and welfare systems for the elderly and to promote other measures, such as lifelong learning, which ensure that they have an active lifestyle.
On policies against discrimination and social exclusion: the social action programme sets out the Commission's intentions to explore the possibilities for developing new Community action programmes based on Articles 13, 129 and 139, as modified in Amsterdam, and that is something we all welcome.
The attention given to medical and social research related to ageing is an excellent emphasis in the report.
Some researchers anticipate that people could actually live up to 120 years, but they invariably die earlier because a vital part of their body ceases to function.
Needless to say, people above the age of 60 or 70 can still do many useful things, but it is wrong at that age to make their income dependent on completed working hours.
I therefore congratulate her, as do all the pensioners and elderly people to whom I owe seat no 274 in this Chamber!
Mr President, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has prepared an important report on the Commission communication.
This is discrimination on the grounds of age.
One colleague has said that it is not we who are living for too long, it is not our society which is too old, but that centuries ago people had to die much earlier than the good Lord had preordained in our genes. 110 or 120 years is quite right!
A girl born today is likely to live for 100 years or more.
We are absolutely opposed to anything that postpones retirement age, as we particularly have in mind the factory workers, many of whom are worn out well before the legal retirement age, even in countries where this age is relatively low.
Indeed, how is it possible to promise the elderly prosperity and solidarity without affirming the right of every worker to have a decent retirement pension, and what I mean by a decent pension is their full wage?
As a member of the Friday Club - which admittedly is not an official group but in practice does exist - I am one of the hosts of the Members present today, as you are, and I hope that we will also manage this next year.
As someone who is not yet a senior citizen, the following struck me about the report on a Europe for all ages, including the elderly: neither of my committees - the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities - lament the fact that our society is ageing; they welcome it.
They accepted payments - the whole of society was therefore involved - and older workers retired, but younger workers were not taken on and many jobs were shed.
Many people are younger at 70 than others are at 17, who only want to go with the flow and not upset anyone or attract attention.
As part of efforts to combat discrimination on the basis of Articles 13 and 137 of the Treaty, there is a campaign for measures to be introduced to ensure that older people are no longer excluded from the workplace, which is actually saying that the obligatory age limit and also compulsory early retirement are discriminatory.
In this context, the Commission is then even called upon to draft a proposal for a directive which should make it possible to combat discrimination specifically on the grounds of age.
I do not believe that all women - or all men - should have to go out to work if they decide to have a career break or to stop working in order to devote themselves to their family.
I have one final point: I should like to distance myself from paragraph 18 of the motion for a resolution.
I believe that it is for the Member States to decide - in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity - how to resolve this problem, whether it be through a nursing insurance scheme or in other ways.
The ageing of the population is, today, an indisputable fact which places considerable pressure on the social security systems of some Member States.
Mr President, my father, Robert Purvis, is 90 and not too well just now.
I am in my 60s, my children in their 30s, my grandchildren between 0 and 5 - four generations of a Scottish and a European family.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like on behalf of the Commission to congratulate the rapporteur and the two committees on this report.
What is more, age-related issues are amongst the most important objectives setting the agenda in the new process of cooperation in the field of social protection.
The proposal concerns both product information and production methods.
The proposal has certain immediate advantages: a single system providing information and promotion for all agricultural products and production methods; measures enabling the rationalisation of proper consumer information on foodstuff products; the decentralisation and general use of specifications for the sectors concerned.
Let me draw your attention to the fact that the vote on this report will also be the last one this year.
Thanks you, ladies and gentlemen, and may I wish everyone in the Chamber today a very happy festive period.
The Committee on Budgets already holds the view that if, in the context of the WTO negotiations in 2003 or later, a number of export refunds and other export amounts are reduced, the European Commission should ensure that a portion of those refunds and amounts are ploughed back into further promotion activities.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the WTO working group and as someone responsible, in particular, for small and medium-sized enterprises, I can only congratulate the Commission on this report and on this initiative, because it is far-sighted in already anticipating developments, which bodes well for the future.
That is why it is very important to achieve a balance here, and this can be developed very effectively through the promotion and publicity measures.
I see great opportunities for quality European products here.
So, Mrs Lulling, there will be opportunities here in the future not only for grape juice but also for wine.
For, while European agriculture may reasonably expect to be a force to be reckoned with on international markets, the fact nonetheless remains that its future is still linked to a greater extent to penetration of its own internal market, which comprises 370 million consumers today and will probably number almost 500 million tomorrow.
This would also make it possible for us to use PR measures to inform the public - including the public outside Europe - about our good food production system and to convince them of its worth. (Applause) Mr President, first of all, I want to make it clear that I am not speaking on behalf of the whole of my group, but only on my own behalf.
I shall therefore be voting against this report.
It appears that I am having the last word here not only in this debate but in the millennium from the floor of this House, so he would be quite proud of me if he was still alive.
The consumers need correct information and they need reassurance.
It was never as safe as it is today in spite of some of the problems that still exist and will probably continue.
The European Commission has to be extremely careful.
In a world where the population is growing by 80 and 90 million a year, there must be a market for European food, because no place in the world is better suited to the production of food and no farmers in the world know better how to respond to opportunities than European farmers.
Mr President, before I move on to speaking about the report, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Dary, very warmly.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2, 4 and 10, which call for information on the production methods used for agricultural products and foods to be included in campaigns of this kind.
I should like to comment briefly on the second part of Amendment No 2 and Amendments Nos 11, 13 and 28.
Amendments Nos 3, 16 and 17 and the second part of Amendment No 24 could give rise to misunderstandings about the aims of our promotion policy.
Amendments Nos 6 and 33 cannot be accepted because, given the limited funds available, they would make the EU share of the co-financing simply too great.
All we can say to Amendments Nos 9 and 22, which call for a special management committee to be set up, and Amendments Nos 7, 19, 23 and 27, where further procedural changes are sought, is that the Commission has to be consistent with its procedural provisions.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) EXPLANATIONS OF VOTES Mr President, in my speech I simply ran out of time before I could wish colleagues a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
Thank you, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, for your good wishes.
I really must protest about that, as it was only 15 million.
Finally, I would like to extend seasonal greetings to everyone, especially those few who have taken the trouble to attend this last Friday session of the year 2000 in Strasbourg, and to wish you all a good and, above all, wise new century.
