Let us also remind ourselves of this: the incident in the St Gotthard tunnel was caused to a great extent by the additional volumes traffic that the St Gotthard, Brenner and other Alpine passes have had to absorb as a result of the closure of the Mont Blanc tunnel.
Of course, Mr Santini.
These are the conditions specified in Amendment No 73 of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Mr Kinnock has given us a comprehensive timetable about the progress of the reform discussions.
Mr Fatuzzo still has much work to do this morning, so we should all take heart.
We will therefore include this oral suggestion. (The President noted that there was no opposition to considering the oral amendment) On Amendment No 15 Mr President, I have been requested to put an oral amendment.
In the spirit of compromise and in order for this amendment to passed, I suggest that we add on the end of paragraph 37: "and to assist in the fight against terrorism". (The President noted that there was no opposition to considering the oral amendment) (Parliament adopted the resolution) EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE General Budget for 2002 . (NL) During the vote on the 2002 draft budget, the delegation of the Dutch People' s Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) in the ELDR group stated that it was against the increase in the category 2 payment appropriations.
Nevertheless, the delegation did vote in favour of the increase in the category 2 commitment appropriations because it is of the opinion that proper programming of the structural funds is needed.
Costa Neves Report (A5-0330/2001) Mr President, the radical Members have a certain reputation for efficiency which my explanation of vote will go some way towards dispelling, as we made a mistake, a serious mistake, in the Budget vote, in respect of Amendment No 75 on the contribution to the funding of European political parties.
Otherwise, we judge the Costa Neves report in a positive light, but we were keen to emphasise this minor technical error with regard to Amendment No 75.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
Thank you, Mr Dell'Alba.
With regard to the budget, I should like to say something about the section on the Commission.
It will certainly be a shock, but I hope to be able to vote for it again next time. . (FR) As is the case every year, the second October part-session is principally devoted to the adoption of the Community Budget.
This is the only area in which Parliament can influence Community policy, as it possesses the power of codecision with the Council and, above all, has the right of veto.
Just like last year' s budget, the 2002 budget is a reflection of the free-market.
van Dam Report (A5-0326/2001) Mr President, you know - as, I believe, everybody does - that in the early years of my working life I was a seaman.
Vatanen Report (A5-0327/2001) Mr President, I voted for the report by my friend Mr Vatanen, who will be disappointed at having been the rapporteur of a document that can do so little for transport; it does, however, do something for bureaucracy.
Mr President, there are pensioners who die because of bureaucracy, without having drawn their pensions.
These pensioners deserve to go to Heaven, as all pensioners do, but it would be better if their pensions arrived while they were still alive!
Lamassoure Report (A5-0338/2001) Mr President, I voted for the report on aid to Turkey, but I want to say that the Pensioners' Party and I personally ask the European Union to be braver.
Turkey has not yet taken the necessary measures to fully restore the political rights of the Kurdish people, suppress torture and abolish the special security courts and prisons that drive prisoners to go on hunger strikes which have claimed more than 70 victims already.
Turkey has not even fixed a precise timetable for fulfilling the political criteria of Copenhagen.
If the question is framed in terms of membership of a monolithic bloc, the Turkish question will be extremely difficult to resolve.
If, on the contrary, we hold fast to a rigid conception of the European Union, the only outcome, in the long term, will be the reversal of the decision made at Helsinki and the resumption of an association process with Turkey of the same kind as those we are developing with the other Mediterranean States which geography and history have placed outside Europe.
Obviously it is difficult, but it would not be the first country to regret a dark episode in its history.
What is at issue today is not recognition of the Armenian genocide's reality, as this House has already had occasion to declare that in 1987.
As regards Turkey's possible accession to the European Union, I would remind you that the real question of the frontiers of Europe is still an open one.
Ghent European Council (RC B5-0696/2001) . (EL) The leaders of the European Union found yet another opportunity at the interim summit in Ghent to side with American imperialism and support their audacious plans in central Asia, which involve bombing and murdering the Afghans.
These measures will have a serious effect on the interests of workers and of the communities in the various countries of the EU.
Therefore, out of support for these events, we will be voting against this resolution on the results of the Ghent Summit. . (IT) The fundamentalist terrorist attacks have not only destroyed the 'twin towers' in New York but also seem to have played a major part in demystifying two other 'pillars' on the eastern shores of the Atlantic: the common defence policy and the European foreign policy.
The three-sided mini-summit, held an hour before the informal Summit of the Fifteen, was a demonstration of the collapse that has also hit Europe.
The Ghent 'triumvirate' , which did not even invite the High Representative for European foreign policy, did not have this objective, concerned as they were - and are - with fighting for their leadership or the next elections.
I have therefore supported Amendments 2 and 3 in the vote on the resolution concerning the European Council' s informal meeting in Ghent.
Poos Report (A5-0308/2001) Mr President, I voted for the report but, both personally and on behalf of the Pensioners' Party and as a convinced Europeanist, I ask that the Council should have less powers and Parliament have more powers.
Parliament should have the power to legislate, and the Council can have some little legislative duty that affects all the Member States, like defence and foreign policy, but not too much.
It is, though, surprising that we do not find there the most obvious reform to make the work of the General Affairs Council easier and reduce the overload on it which is the main problem today: its division into a General Coordination Council (dealing with the general organisation of work, and issues concerning the EU institutions) and a Foreign Affairs Council, which would obviously be of a purely inter-Governmental nature.
These broad strokes lead us to design a future central position for the Council, one which should give it a greater initiatory role (although the task of drafting legislation will have to be better shared) and one of coordinating the pillars, the various circles, the national and European levels.
On the one hand, it contains positive aspects on improving transparency, not to mention the concept of change in the institutions in an enlarged European Union, in its references to the workings of the Council and to greater participation by national and regional parliaments in EU policy.
Public opinion throughout Europe plainly sees evidence that this is needed, as also evidence of the democratic deficit in European structures.
This Parliament is concerned about the democratic deficit.
We must highlight the need for publicity and openness in the Council, as stipulated in paragraph 26 of the report.
We do think, though, that there is now the need for a pause.
The large countries are promoting the interests of their multinationals, at the expense of the less developed countries, without so much as a word about the long-standing request of these countries to have their debts cancelled.
In the agricultural sector, rapid restructuring is being called for in order to concentrate the land in a few hands and forge another link in the chain controlled by the network of multinationals.
Under this new world order, which uses every possible means to impose the law of the jungle and where might is right, people are beginning to understand that the only solution is resistance and counterattack.
I also regret that the joint resolution that Parliament has just voted on commits the sin of incoherence by remaining silent on Community preference, whilst rightly emphasising the right of WTO members to apply agricultural policies adapted to their needs and conditions and especially the right of EU Member States to defend a European model of agriculture founded on family holdings, safe and high-quality food, protection of the environment and a balance between town and country.
Food safety constitutes a strategic dimension, on which the tragic events of 11 September throw a new light.
Désir Report (A5-0331/2001) I have, of course, voted for this report, Mr President, on democracy in international trade, but I should like to do more.
I therefore appeal to all pensioners and all elderly people throughout the world to unite in an organisation that can make its weight felt - a weight they are entitled to have because of their numbers - so they can influence international trade to make it more humane and friendlier to those in need, as we all hope. . (FR) We voted in favour of the report on "Openness and democracy in international trade" in order to assert our demand for a reform of the World Trade Organisation towards greater transparency and fairness (especially in regard to the settlement of differences) and also the strengthening of control by the peoples.
A double ambiguity, though, exists in this regard, both at European level and at the level of the WTO.
As regards the European Union, successive reforms of the Treaties have practically excluded the national parliaments from control and ratification of the common trade policy.
There is then a need to assert most clearly that the objective of the consultative assembly is to improve information, but not under any circumstances to replace the national parliaments in any way.
I would say that the rapporteur' s proposals intended to respond to this threefold challenge are a step in the right direction, and that is why I have voted in favour of his report.
Nevertheless, our action must not stop there: we must also take direct action on the debts of poor countries, show less arrogance towards our southern partners and more respect for them, and stop trying to impose our form of civilisation on them.
Unfortunately, the pretensions of the current WTO go much further than that.
The new international landscape that is emerging as a result of the ongoing fight against terrorism forces us to act on two levels: the national level, the sovereign prerogatives of which will prove crucial in this new type of war, and the world level, which is the only level appropriate for the large-scale cooperation that is necessary.
The committee proposes a premium 50% higher than that put forward by the Commission.
As regards costs, the Committee on Budgets added approximately EUR 400 million in horizontal cuts that the Council deducted from the budget so we added EUR 400 million this morning.
We added another EUR 400 million in relation to animal health measures.
The budget this year is 2% more in real terms than we started with last year, and in real terms it is more than 5%, when you consider the outturn.
It is my opinion, and the opinion of EPP members in the Committee on Budgets, that there are sufficient funds to meet the request of the Committee on Agriculture: if the Doyle position is accepted by this Parliament and by the Council there are sufficient resources to finance the policy.
The Community average income of sheep and goat producers is generally amongst the lowest of all sectors, especially in northern Europe where lambs are reared in meat production systems.
The main proposal for a fixed, single annual premium I fully support, at EUR 30.
On behalf of my group, I have, therefore, retabled two of the rapporteur' s amendments designed respectively to reset the basic premium at EUR 25 per head and the premium for milk herds - ewes or she-goats - at EUR 20.
In the 'meat' sector, the maximum aid per head would therefore, be EUR 39, which would ensure equal treatment in terms of public premiums per hectare for sheep breeders and milk-cow breeders.
I would say that this is a totally logical approach, because these two types of production often exist side by side in the same regions and areas and even within the same holdings.
We also find the amounts specified by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development excessive.
The Commission should therefore introduce a new identification system as soon as possible.
I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very hard work on this difficult report.
The original proposal was disappointing, and a lot of hard work has been put in to get the best deal possible for farmers in this regard.
The rapporteur, the Commission, Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and farming organisations are all at one on the need for reform.
My proposal for a flat rate premium of EUR 32 was not supported; it was based on a fair and thorough evaluation by agricultural economists of the level of support necessary to restore equity to the sector.
On behalf of my Group, I then supported proposals for EUR 30 - a figure which I believe is the very minimum necessary to close the gap and help restore profitability to the sector.
Like all Members of this House, I am conscious of the budgetary implications of reform.
Mr President, I apologise for my absence.
The report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is an improvement on the Commission proposals but, for all that, it does not make any significant changes in the sheep and goat farming sector.
The headage payments in Greece for each holding have not risen since 1989-1991.
If we really wanted to provide income support for these regions and for sheep and goat farmers, we would abolish quotas, increase subsidies and provide other additional incentives.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis besetting livestock farming in Europe is of an unprecedented scale.
If it is not checked it will have terrible consequences for our economies, our societies and for life in our territories.
In the beef and veal sector, despite the mollifying proposals that Commissioner Fischler has put to us - he would have us believe that the crisis is now behind us - we are still in a slump.
I repeat, there is a considerable deficit in the European Union' s sheepmeat sector and looking at the average age of livestock breeders, which is increasing, it is not hard to predict that this deficit will increase in coming years.
Apart from the human and social tragedy that this represents, it is also an ecological tragedy because sheep breeding and goat breeding are often the last defence against desertification in regions where farming is difficult.
The proposal of EUR 30 that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development approved will, therefore, resolve this discrimination.
The proposals approved by the Committee on Agriculture will also remedy this unfairness, by making all premiums the same.
As the Commission itself acknowledges in the explanatory statement, sheep and goat breeders have the lowest incomes of all meat producers with the additional disadvantage that 80% of the animals eligible for premiums are located in parts of the European Union that are both remote and poor.
For this reason, and also because there is a deficit in this sector, which can only meet 80% of domestic consumption, it is becoming very important to make the changes I have just outlined and to increase the supplementary premium for Objective 1 regions.
We therefore welcome the per head aid increases to EUR 30 and the additional aid of EUR 9 for the least-favoured regions, because this is a sector whose production is concentrated in poor areas, in which the viability of farms is more precarious, despite the fact that they play a major role in preserving the rural fabric of these regions and, in certain cases, are even the only economically possible activity.
I am also happy to support the new aid of EUR 5, given the difficulties that this sector is experiencing, although we must bear in mind the danger of renationalisation that the creation of national packages entails.
We naturally support the idea that the premium should guarantee an income that is acceptable to the producer and my personal opinion is that this income should be the same for producers of both heavy and light lambs, as approved in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
The market in sheep' s milk is not regulated in the same way as the market in cow' s milk and income from milk is balanced by a lower level of income from meat production, especially in Mediterranean countries where mixed farms that produce wool, milk and meat slaughter these animals at lower weights, once again, largely in accordance with eating habits.
With regard to the supplementary premium that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development proposed and approved, I have to say that the Commission should be very vigilant that this supplementary premium should in no case be used to reduce the linear premium, the headage premium or the premium for rural development.
The Commission should understand that Parliament' s Committee wants to see an increase in the premium, comprised of three parts: a headage premium, a premium for rural development and a supplementary premium, in order to be able to help States implement the principle of flexibility.
Finally, I would like to say, and the Commissioner is well aware of this, that this sector makes an important contribution to land-use planning and to all the environmental services that we say we are going to defend in this new future common agricultural policy.
I think that the proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is reasonable.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to expressly welcome the Commission' s proposal for reforming the market organisation for sheep and goat meat.
I would also like to thank our rapporteur most sincerely for his work.
This premium must also be an incentive for sheep and goat farmers and that means EUR 30 and no less.
I also believe that the EUR 9 supplementary premium for ewes and she-goats is particularly justified under the more difficult conditions in the less-favoured areas.
On the contrary, there is a deficit in sheep meat in Austria and in many other countries of Europe.
Finally, I would like to say that sheep and goat farming should not be supported only in areas that have no alternative, but also in those where sheep and goat farming is traditional.
I therefore hope, Mr President, that the Commission and Council will follow these sensible proposals from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
I also take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report on this very important subject.
Sheep production is important especially in hill areas, not only because of the environment there and the role it plays in keeping the social fabric of society together, but because it has proven through the centuries to be one of the most important aspects of production in the agricultural sector.
In the United Kingdom because of foot-and-mouth, sheep farmers have suffered greatly.
Over recent years, farmers have been getting less for their sheep than they were 15 years ago and they are receiving less support.
I want to make it very clear: I will support the EUR 30 in the amendment in the vote in this House this afternoon.
It has been the poor relation because it has been deemed to lack a strong voice in Europe.
Yes, there will be some budgetary problems but we can get over them.
Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by sincerely thanking you, Mr Adam, for producing the report and the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for their contributions to the discussions in committee and also for today' s debate.
As many of you have also emphasised, the most important point of the proposed reform is the replacement of the variable deficiency payments by a fixed-rate form of aid.
The Commission proposal also guarantees budget stability and in particular is also more consistent with WTO objectives over all.
I also consider Amendments Nos 1, 6, 9, 22, 36 and 37 superfluous or pointless in the context of the regulation.
Other amendments are concerned with the need for a degree of flexibility that would enable Member States to provide additional support for the sector or, more especially, to manage the various Member States' individual quotas better and more actively.
I would like to say to you in this connection that while I cannot accept the proposed amendments directly, I do understand very clearly the message they are intended to convey.
Amendments Nos 12, 13 and 15 are in fact the ones with the greatest direct effects.
They are concerned with the question, discussed here, of increasing the premium to EUR 30 for all producers and increasing the supplementary premium for producers in less-favoured regions to EUR 9.
We based our proposal on the financial framework agreed in Berlin, and I regret that I cannot therefore go along with your suggestions, especially in view of the fact that at virtually every summit the Heads of Government stress the importance and immutability of that financial framework.
The proposal in Amendment No 20 that the first 15 sheep livestock units should be disregarded for calculating the stocking density for the beef and veal arrangements refers to a problem that actually belongs not in the context of this regulation but in the context of the market organisation for cattle, and I must therefore reject this proposal in this connection.
Amendments Nos 5, 7 and 33 are concerned with imports from third countries.
Unfortunately, these amendments run counter to our international obligations and cannot therefore be accepted for that reason.
I understand that and fully share your concerns, but I believe that this problem really needs to be solved sooner and that we cannot wait until 31 December 2005.
But I do think that part of Amendment No 42, which links the granting of premiums to compliance with the marking and registration rules, seems a sensible approach.
Amendment No 19 is concerned with allowing Member States to show greater flexibility when setting application periods.
This question will be settled in the implementing provisions.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic accident in the St Gotthard Tunnel yesterday morning reminds us of the tragic fire of 24 March 1999 in the Mont Blanc Tunnel.
An electronic control centre has been set up, the electrical installations completely renewed, the ventilation system modernised, ventilated refuges created every 300 metres and emergency stopping bays every 100 metres.
Finally, the two original operating companies, ATMB in France and SITMB in Italy, have been replaced by a single administrative structure, an important step bearing in mind that, according to a number of technical reports produced after the fire, the large number of casualties was due, among other things, to poor coordination between the two operators.
Our conclusions form part of the White Paper on transport policy up until the year 2010.
The Commission will pass a proposal to this effect to the European Parliament and the Council early in 2002.
In the White Paper, the Commission also proposes a new scheme for transport infrastructure charges to take greater account of the external costs of the various transport operators.
This new charging policy should make a major contribution to creating a balanced relationship between transport operators, especially in sensitive regions like the Alps, favouring the most environmentally friendly among them.
It is a link of cause and effect: it seems clear to everybody that the mass of traffic that the Mont Blanc has not been able to cater for during the two and a half years or so since it closed has inevitably shifted to other Alpine passes, starting with the St Gotthard itself, which in turn is now closed, and then the Brenner and the Tarvisio and the whole Alpine arc, which, in short, has absorbed the surplus traffic that used to go through the Mont Blanc tunnel before it was closed.
On the other hand, as the Commissioner has also reminded us, the opening of the Mont Blanc tunnel will certainly be accompanied by special safety arrangements.
It is also clear that the Italian and the French authorities have, at last, found a common language in which to propose solutionsand have invested almost EUR 300 million, the burden being shared equally by the two countries, to ensure safety.
It is said that once this tunnel has been restored - which I hope will be very soon - it will be the safest in the world, with features that I will not repeat now because they have already been mentioned by the Commissioner himself.
These are priority projects.
Secondly, the Commissioner spoke of a shift from road to rail, where that is possible and worthwhile.
But the people who live in the Alpine regions also have a right to a healthy environment.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted this debate is happening at last.
Mont Blanc has always been a symbol: it has been the symbol of mountaineering and also the symbol of road transport, with this tunnel built in the 1960s, which for many years was the most important tunnel in the Alps.
It is incomprehensible that this rail solution should have been ignored, since it represents a transit capacity of up to 20 million tonnes per year via trans-Alpine routes.
The EUR 200 million' s worth of work that has been undertaken, without an impact assessment or a public inquiry, does not meet the highest safety requirements.
I am sorry first of all that the Council is not present to hear this debate, even though the Commissioner made it quite clear that this concerns a principle of subsidiarity.
The reopening of the Mont Blanc tunnel, already well behind the schedule agreed on by the Italian and French Governments in January 2001, must take place within the framework of a number of conditions to ensure traffic safety and reduce environmental problems to a minimum.
These legitimate interests are in fact reflected in surveys carried out in the valley, according to which the great majority of the citizens want the tunnel to reopen.
What we ask is for the tunnel to be reopened with the safety measures mentioned above implemented, and, at the same time, for there to be a decisive international initiative to develop a new rail infrastructure, including, in particular, the new Turin-Lyon line, improved commercial traffic handling on the Turin-Bardonecchia-Amberieu line, and the widening of the Col di Tenda tunnel and the Aosta-Martigny tunnel.
Between the first half of 2000 and the first half of 2001, rail freight between Italy and France fell by 8% and combined transport by 10%.
The European Union must now show the political courage to make new and bold choices.
Mr President, the recent tragic accidents have again made us all aware that we have a lot of catching up to do in road transport in particular, especially when it comes to developing infrastructures for intermodal transport systems.
I therefore implore you to be really forward looking in tackling this issue because it is not only a matter of road safety but of the environment in which many people live.
Therefore, it seems to me that we have to take two kinds of measures, short term and long term.
There are other projects too that need to be speeded up, including, in the case of the Alps, the two rail tunnels, the one between Lyon and Turin and the Brenner tunnel; there are similar projects in the Pyrenees, where the traffic situation is even more serious, although this is never mentioned.
Essentially, this depends on how quickly our Member States and the European Parliament can agree on the contents of the White Paper.
In the context of fisheries relations between the European Union and the developing countries, the Committee on Development believes that we need to encourage observance of the principles of the FAO's Code of Conduct for Responsible Fishing.
The first proposal set out in the resolution is that EU development policy must pay greater attention to the developing countries' fishing industry by drawing up country-specific cooperation strategy documents resulting from the political dialogue between the European Union and the country concerned.
I requested the Hughes procedure, because the matter has a profound effect on both fisheries and development cooperation.
International fisheries agreements are not harmful to fishing, to the European Union, or to third countries, as is sometimes claimed.
The development cooperation policy should become more involved, with more economic, financial and technical measures, as requested by our report and as shown in the information given in the explanatory statement.
I think that the criticisms voiced in the Lannoye report on the agreements with Mauritania and Senegal are completely unfounded.
I think, Mr President, that our Parliament has taken a positive step forwards.
Parliament has set an example by coordinating our two committees and I think that this is right way to defend European interests, combining principles that we all advocate, such as the conservation of mankind' s natural resources and the eradication of poverty in the Third World, which requires development cooperation.
To put it simply, when we are involved in the fight against world poverty, our work is not only important: it is crucial.
For the coastal communities of the poorest countries that live exclusively from fishing, it is a precious resource on which their very survival depends.
Promoting scientific research into resources and the equal sharing of this knowledge with developing countries, aid for the organisation of local communities that depend on fishing, improving and promoting mechanisms for regional cooperation and support for fighting against flags of convenience and illegal fishing are, therefore, only some of the measures that show that the course of action now being proposed is the right one for us to take together.
The European Union funds cooperation in fisheries with these countries in two different ways: international fisheries agreements and projects funded by the European Development Fund.
In response to a question I asked recently, Commissioner Nielson informed me that the Community had undertaken, with funding of EUR 421 million from the European Development Fund, 334 programmes, projects or actions to support the fisheries sector in these countries.
I would remind you that the largest current fisheries agreement, the agreement with Mauritania, involves around EUR 80 million per year.
Fisheries agreements allow them to obtain financial resources in return for giving the Community fleet fishing rights on various perishable resources whose capture, processing and marketing, require specialist companies and methods that these countries do not have themselves.
In the same way that it would be absurd for us to oppose these countries' exporting their agricultural products to Europe, it would be appalling if we were to deny them the opportunity of selling their surplus fish supplies at international prices.
This ill-informed approach to development cooperation would lead us to prevent developing countries from exporting their mining products to us, or to ask European energy companies to abandon these countries so that local companies can carry out operations, or to not pay Gabon or Nigeria the international price for a barrel of oil.
The European Union is suffering from severe excess capacity in the fishing industry, and is solving this problem by shifting some of the production to developing countries.
Naturally, the governments of poor countries are delighted to receive large sums of money for allowing large-scale fishing in their waters.
Furthermore, there must be much stricter supervision of the way in which the developing countries spend their compensation payments.
I must say that the Commission' s proposal is coherent with the objective of responding to European interests, while making it compatible with a frame of reference for the development of countries for which fishing is an essential resource in their fight against poverty.
Mr President, at a meeting a few days ago of Portuguese and Spanish Socialists in Santiago de Compostela, we said that European Union policies must always be judged in terms of the added value they contribute in the field of social cohesion.
We thereby insisted that our Union must be, amongst other things but, for us, essentially, a great framework for intra-European solidarity.
Naturally, this approach also goes for the actions of the united Europe in its relations with other countries, in particular the developing countries.
So the policies of the European Union relating to these countries must also be judged in terms of the added value they contribute in relation to social cohesion, in other words, in terms of their contribution to progress towards a more balanced world with fewer inequalities.
We understand that there are other legitimate objectives, including the defence of the interests of the fisheries sectors in the Member States of the Union.
But we would say that this fisheries policy must not contradict what we do in the field of cooperation and, above all, it must not contradict, either in the immediate, medium or long terms, the priority strategic objective we have set in the field of development cooperation, that is, the eradication of poverty in the countries of the South.
A fisheries policy which, at least as a collateral effect, contributes to the eradication of poverty in the countries with which we sign agreements so that we may fish in their waters.
This respect and coherence with our goal of sustainable development for all must prevent egotistical and conceited actions by us, and by others who, equally irresponsible, through fishing activity in the third world, brought to reality the Spanish saying which says that we 'brought these people bread for today and hunger for tomorrow' .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, fishing is an activity that mankind has practised throughout history, but it has never been a great source of wealth, as demonstrated by the fact that the Neolithic revolution was achieved through agriculture and not through fishing.
The fisheries agreements that the European Union concludes with third countries are essential to the survival of activities and cultures that are an integral part of the history and identity of many European countries.
Your motion for a resolution stresses the need to take greater account in future of the development potential of local fisheries, especially small-scale coastal fisheries, and the needs of fisheries-dependent coastal communities.
The Commission is of the opinion that these principles, mentioned in the resolution, for taking account of development questions in the external aspects of the common fisheries policy are in harmony with the principles set out in the Commission communication on fisheries and poverty reduction and in the Green Paper on the future of the common fisheries policy.
And we do in fact respect them when concluding fisheries agreements with third countries.
These same principles will also be taken into consideration in the debate on the reform of the common fisheries policy initiated by the publication of the Green Paper a short while ago.
The country and regional strategy papers produced in cooperation with the developing countries must pay greater attention to the link between development cooperation and the external aspects of the common fisheries policy.
On this I can say that in the discussion about the extension of MAGP IV, which is coming next, we shall have to bear in mind that this thought has already been taken up in the proposal for extending MAGP IV and it is already part of the proposal.
I hope that this will also meet with Parliament' s approval.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place this afternoon at 6.30 p.m.
Council decision amending Council Decision 97/413/EC concerning the objectives and detailed rules for restructuring the Community fisheries sector for the period from 1 January 1997 to 31 December 2001 with a view to achieving a balance on a sustainable basis between resources and their exploitation (COM(2001) 322 - C5-0308/2001 - 2001/0128(CNS)); 2.
It welcomes the tightening up of provisions concerning the transfer of fishing vessels to third countries.
For example, both the Committee on Fisheries and the Committee on Legal Affairs took the view that requiring every segment of the fleet to have reached its objectives before any segment could benefit from financial assistance ran counter to the principles of natural justice.
Similarly, the proposal that financial assistance could be given only where objectives had been met purely by a reduction in capacity seemed unfair to those fleets where capacity and activity reductions had been combined.
Amendments Nos 4, 7, 8 and 9 are intended to maintain the status quo in relation to both these requests.
Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 5, approved by the Committee on Fisheries, reject the changes on the capacity rules altogether.
Amendments Nos 11 and 12, submitted by the ELDR Group, however, accept the Commission's approach in principle, but seek to allow capacity increases on safety grounds by way of exception for existing vessels under 12 metres.
Only this week the need for continued for vigilance in this area was again highlighted with the publication of the ICES report on the prospects for catches in 2002.
In that respect I was horrified to read that Danish fisheries inspectors last month boarded a Danish industrial fishing boat and discovered 114 tonnes of juvenile cod in a 543 tonne total catch that was supposed to be composed entirely of sand eels.
It is a crime against everything we are trying to achieve.
Adjusting the Community fleet to the resources available is a fundamental objective of the CFP.
We therefore welcome the extension of the current MAGP IV until 31 December 2002.
The Commission' s proposal is not restricted to extending the current MAGP by one year, but it also intends to introduce, as has been said, criteria relating to safety, which should be debated in the context of a new MAGP.
I regret that the Commission has not made any reference to the question of safety in the White Paper on the reform of the CFP.
I would like to point out that, as this House approved (on debating and approving my report on fishing accidents), Council Directive 89/391/EEC of 12 June 1989 on the application of measures to promote the improvement of health and safety of workers in the workplace is also fully applicable to vessels of less than 12 metres.
We also agree with the rapporteur's amendments seeking to restrict the derogation for safety to vessels less than 12 metres in length and we would like to thank her for retabling these important amendments.
It does not matter whether it is ICES, or the STECF or any of the regional bodies such as NAFO.
There is pretty much universal agreement that this deplorable situation is due to the excess capacity of the world's fishing fleets.
The Commission is always reminding us of this, but the Member States and certain segments of the fishing industry are clearly in denial.
The Community has agreed to several international instruments which seek to control fishing capacity and/or fishing effort.
For instance, the FAO Code of Conduct provides that states should take measures to prevent or eliminate excess fishing capacity and should ensure that levels of fishing effort are in line with sustainable use of fisheries resources.
Some have argued that it is not reasonable to try and change a programme in the last year or that certain aspects of the proposal are contrary to the idea of natural justice.
Mr President, Commissioner, the decision to extend the expiry date of the MAGP-IV until the end of next year, so as to include the results of the negotiations on the reform of the common fisheries policy, must not be used to undermine the interests of the countries that have so far met and even exceeded the reductions laid down in the MAGP, such as Portugal, whilst there are other Member States have not only failed to meet any of their targets but have even increased their fishing capacities.
To try to control fisheries with two very different instruments - the TACs and the quota on the one hand and the fleet structure policy on the other - will result in serious problems, particularly if the policy instruments serve different objectives, which is the case.
The common fisheries policy needs a clear objective, and the system of TACs and quotas must be the determining factor for this.
The fleet in my country regulates capacity by reducing activity (the "days at sea restrictions" ).
I am opposed to some of those changes because I think these matters would be better resolved in the landmark decision about fleet policy.
It is hard to accept that, six months before the end of a programme to restructure the fleet, the sector can be told, without scientific or technical justifications, that fishing capacity cannot be reduced by means of restructuring efforts and that the only solution is pure scrapping, all because the Commission made a small calculation error four years ago.
And that, furthermore, while they are at it, they take the opportunity to turn the bases of MAGP IV and key elements of the FIFG Regulation on their heads, which is completely unacceptable, and I believe there is general agreement on this here.
However, if each State defends its own interests and only complies when it is in its own interest, we clearly get nowhere.
A safe, effective and competitive fleet.
We want it to draw attention, on the one hand, to the fact that the increase in onboard safety measures has nothing to do with increasing fishing capacity or power, and on the other, to the need not to introduce substantial last-minute changes to programmes which have been in operation for five years, because an annual extension is one thing, but to change fundamental conditions in the general philosophy of the MAGPs now, at the last minute, is quite another.
I therefore hope that the House supports this message which the Committee on Fisheries wants to send this afternoon, and that the Commission will, of course, take it into account.
Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you, Mrs Attwooll, for preparing this report.
We must see it in the context of the other essential political elements of our common fisheries policy.
That is why we have also submitted proposals to that effect.
Amendments Nos 1 to 3 and 5 are concerned with the question of safety at sea.
We are able to accept Amendments Nos 11 and 12 because the application of the safety clause remains confined to vessels under 12 metres in length that no longer fish with drag nets.
Parliament has also said in this connection that it is not appropriate to amend the provisions of a regulation that was adopted less than two years ago for a period of six years.
In view of the present difficult situation regarding stocks, I think the time has now come to talk about this question, too.
Finally, Amendment No 6 amplifies a provision that was included in the regulation at your instigation, and that provision bans FIFG aid for exports or for the formation of joint ventures.
We have already discussed this point in connection with the previous agenda item.
The Commission is in total agreement on this point and suggests that the lists of countries that break these rules should also be published.
Finally, the Commission is unable to agree to Amendment No 10 because it involves a procedure internal to the Commission, for which the Commission alone is competent.
Thank you, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, this proposal for a Council regulation concerns the prolongation of the fisheries protocol which has been in force between the EU and Senegal for the period of 1 May 1997 to 30 April 2001.
The first period is from 1 May 2001 until 31 July and the second from 1 August 2001 to 31 December.
After several rounds of negotiations starting in Brussels in January 2001 no agreement was reached between the EU and Senegal on the renewal of the current protocol.
Last June, Senegal suspended negotiations until October in order to gain time to analyse the fisheries issues and their effects.
However, recent scientific analysis has shown that, in spite of the satisfactory utilisation rates in this segment, coastal demersal resources have plummeted and have forced the small-scale and industrial fleet to fish in neighbouring countries.
Of course, sustainable fishing is one of the leading principles of the common fisheries policy.
The fisheries possibilities and the financial contribution from the Community have remained unchanged.
The compensation to be paid by the Community for the eight months of this year will be calculated on a pro rata basis, meaning that the compensation for the period 1 May until the end of the year will be two-thirds of the yearly sum of EUR 12 million.
We cannot compare them because the protocol with Morocco would have involved EUR 500 million over a four-year period.
We must also recognise the sensitivity shown by the rapporteur in not presenting amendments so as not to interfere with the result of the negotiations currently under way, although he indicates that the results of those negotiations will have to be analysed in line with the considerations expressed in his report.
In the Northern agreements, however, no Member State can fish.
And we must also remember that, in this particular case, we are not talking about 'paper fish' because, as I have already stated, the fish really exist, unlike the cases of certain Northern agreements, where the state of resources is so poor that real fishing opportunities are not available, and which, by the way, are much more expensive than the agreement with Senegal.
We are grateful to the Government of Senegal for their willingness to allow our fleet to continue fishing until the parties have reached a new agreement.
In the interim, the Commission and the Senegalese Government have reached a new fisheries agreement, which will be the subject of another debate.
Fishing relations between Senegal and the European Union are wholly satisfactory to both parties.
It would be wonderful if, in terms of what we are discussing here today (the coherence between the common fisheries policy and development cooperation policy we all want to see), the Commission could help the Senegalese authorities, and other developing countries, to manage their fisheries resources better, especially - as we have already said - in areas where there are young and spawning fish, which are in such need of it.
The agreement should relate to the surplus resources that cannot be caught by local fishermen.
Sustainability must be ensured.
The fisheries agreements are exceedingly important to certain regions of Europe in which, in addition to jobs in the sector itself, there is a range of additional businesses dependent upon fisheries.
We should focus more upon the degree to which third countries make use of subsidies for the development of local fisheries and ensure that the development aid we provide is used in the best way possible and, especially, to benefit local fishermen.
These agreements are important to the Community, especially in the light of the fact that the fisheries agreement with Morocco was not renewed.
All of this has its place within the framework of the debate we have held today on development cooperation and respect for the resources of third countries, certainly, but also in the knowledge that there are fishing opportunities which have not yet been utilised.
I know that the Commission is working seriously and has meetings arranged for 20 and 23 November.
The extension of the existing protocol also enables us to pursue negotiations for the multi-annual protocol without undue pressure of time and to bring them to a conclusion.
At EUR 12 million a year, the amount of money involved is considerable, and in purely mathematical terms it means EUR 8 million for the eight months extension.
Thank you, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
In this case, the Community fleet, industry and market are ensured a stable supply of a raw material, tuna, of which we have a considerable deficit, by means of our own fleet, which means that many Community jobs will be retained, not only in the extractive sector, but also in the activities dependent on it.
Furthermore, the protocol once again demonstrates that, in the Southern agreements, a high proportion of the fishing opportunities are utilised, in this case reaching 91% for tuna seiners.
Furthermore, the number of Malagasy seamen which must be employed rises from 6 in the protocol currently in force to 40 in the protocol under discussion.
It is therefore time to ask the Commission once and for all to implement the views of the 1997 Council of Fisheries Ministers, which clearly request that fishing opportunities which remain unused may be used by interested Member State fleets in all agreements of the European Union.
The fisheries sector has been one of the first to cooperate in this development, since its presence in the waters of third countries has been the catalyst for many of the first industrial centres in their coastal regions, if not the definitive element in terms of many nations now having taken on the genuine vocation of a fishing State.
In the case of this agreement, the proportion intended for development cooperation actions is now rising to 62.6% of the total cost of the agreement to the Community budget.
This situation raises many questions.
Firstly, there is no reason why fisheries budgets should be financing the development policy budgets and, from the point of view of budgetary transparency, this state of affairs should be clarified as soon as possible.
Secondly, this situation should also be clarified in order to silence those voices which complain about the high budgetary cost of the fisheries agreements, when in reality, as we have seen, considerably more than half of that budget is pure development policy.
Mr President, the fisheries agreements the EU has signed with third countries have always formed a decisive part of its common fisheries policy.
For those of us who come from Réunion, this is rather difficult to understand, as, moreover, I explained, in Réunion, to some of our MEPs in the Committee on Fisheries, pointing out that the fishing resources of this sector are young, specific and over-abundant, with the result that the catch quota criteria imposed by the common fisheries policy are inappropriate.
The rapporteur refers to the increased fishing opportunities given under the agreement between the EU and Madagascar, which will make it easier for fishermen from Réunion to acquire additional fishing rights in Malagasy territorial waters.
We would be allowing them to increase their catch quota, which, at present, accounts for only 0.12% of the total EU catch in this zone.
The fisheries agreements are the EU's main instrument for contributing to the development of the fishing industry in third countries.
A large part of the total financial contribution is allocated to this under the agreement with Madagascar.
Finally, I do hope the European Union will adopt a strict policy with regard to poaching in the Indian Ocean.
The Commission sometimes gives the impression that it wants to forget the conclusions of the Luxembourg Council of October 1997 on the policy of fisheries agreements with third countries, which explicitly recognised the socio-economic advantages of those agreements for the Community, both in terms of the supply of raw materials and employment, and which are - and will continue to be - an essential element of the common fisheries policy.
These actions must therefore be financed by the European Development Fund which, to date, has financed the development of the fishing sectors of the developing countries to the not inconsiderable tune of EUR 421 million.
This agreement, like all fisheries agreements with third countries, is aimed at a specific form of fishing - in this case, tuna - clearly outside the 6-12 mile zone, and includes absolutely limited and measured annual fishing opportunities for an also limited and measured number of ships - 80.
The shipowners are obliged, furthermore, to employ a significant number of Malagasy seamen, which is rising from 6 to 40, as has also been pointed out.
The fisheries agreement with Madagascar is valuable not only for the Community but also for Madagascar.
I should like to support Mrs Fraga Estevez in saying that, in the funding of the fisheries agreements, a sharp and clear distinction should be made between the portion used to fund fishing opportunities and the portion used to fund development measures which, in the EU' s budget, should appear as development aid.
The agreements are exceedingly important to those regions of Europe in which fishing is the most important activity, and we are concerned here not merely with the work of the fishermen but also with associated businesses on land.
Matters must be arranged in such a way that local fishermen are provided with development opportunities, and that means that the EU must secure the concept of sustainability.
This agreement, like the one with Senegal, is important to the Community, partly of course in the light of the fact that the fisheries agreement with Morocco was not renewed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fraga Estevez, I thank you for your report on the new protocol under the fisheries agreement with Madagascar, by which we can safeguard the operation of our tuna fleet in these waters up to and including May 2004.
The new Protocol refers exclusively to tuna and offers fishing opportunities for 80 vessels.
The financial contribution totals EUR 825 000.
These resources benefit, above all, monitoring and supervision, but also research and non-industrial fishing.
Also, this is the first time this Parliament has dealt with an agreement with an ACP state, providing for the satellite-based surveillance of all Community ships operating within the scope of this Agreement.
As regards Amendments Nos 1 and 3, I draw your attention to the interinstitutional agreements in force and most especially to the 5 July 2000 Framework Agreement between Parliament and the Commission.
Thank you, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
Commissioners, too, Mr Fischler, usually require more time than you, with your characteristically Austrian succinctness, have done today.
the proposal for a Council decision [COM(2001) 322 - C5-0308/2001 - 2001/0128(CNS)] amending Council decision 97/413/EC concerning the objectives and detailed rules for restructuring the Community fisheries sector for the period from 1 January 1997 to 31 December 2001 with a view to achieving a balance on a sustainable basis between resources and their exploitation 2.
I note that more than 80% of our fellow MEPs evidently had a good reason for not participating in the vote this afternoon.
In other words, Mr President, I would like to ask you whether you will discuss with the presidency of the Parliament whether there would be any possibility of either considerably increasing the number of Members present at 6.30 pm on a Thursday evening or finding another solution for this Thursday evening that does not entail a vote.
Our objective was to pass on to sheep (and goat) farmers an increase in the annual premium but to keep within the expenditure limits set out in Agenda 2000 and keep us on track for CAP reform.
We particularly emphasise the importance we place on increased marketing support to encourage consumption and we look to the Commission to act with urgency. - (FR) It seems to us that the Adams report on the proposed reform in the sheepmeat and goatmeat production sector does not take account of the basic problems facing small-scale farmers, who have the lowest incomes in Europe.
Against that background and with an eye to the impending general review of the EU' s agricultural policy, we have chosen to vote against the report in its entirety.
The European Union must promote scientific research into resources and could support the implementation of an effective programme for monitoring the exclusive economic zones (EEZs) of developing countries.
