Mr Szymański is to speak in defence of this motion and now has the floor. (PL) Madam President, I ask the motion for the debate on homophobia be declared inadmissible pursuant to Article 167 of our rules of procedure.
In my view this should suffice to withdraw the motion for a debate on this issue, as the grounds for the debate do not exist.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I think that the PPE-DE Group also knows that today we are not just talking about one statement by one Minister.
Since the Treaty of Amsterdam - I do not know whether everyone is aware - Article 13 stipulates that we have a role in anti-discrimination legislation.
I speak for Germany, and our history has given us a particular responsibility, in that, 60 years ago, homosexuals were among those who fell victim to the National Socialist machinery of extermination.
To be specific, Article 13 of the European Communities Treaty, and also Article 21 of the EU's Charter of Fundamental Rights explicitly forbid any form of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, and, over and above that, the EU's Member States, as members of the Council of Europe, have committed themselves to adhere to the European Convention on Human Rights.
It is necessary to combat discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, which is clearly outlawed in Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Furthermore, Article 13 of the Treaty allows for the adoption at a European level of appropriate measures in the fight against discrimination on the grounds of gender.
In the year 2000, the Council adopted a directive, on the basis of Article 13, establishing a general framework for combating discrimination in employment and occupation on several grounds, including sexual orientation.
The Commission wishes to point out that in 2005 it launched studies into the current national laws prohibiting all forms of discrimination, including discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, in areas other than employment and occupation.
The Commission also stated in its political strategy for 2008 that it will propose fresh initiatives aimed at preventing discrimination in areas other than the labour market, including discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make clear - perhaps rather more calmly than before - that we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats stand fully behind the European Parliament's resolutions and behind the directives that have been adopted here and which the Commission has described.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Madam President, on 16 January 2006, I spoke in this very place to defend the resolution against homophobia.
It is not a question of stigmatising this or that government or this or that Member State, but these diatribes reveal this rise in homophobia within the European Union.
In that respect, I am also delighted that Mr Weber, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as well as the ombudsman, have dissociated themselves so emphatically from the statements of the Polish minister in question.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it would have been extremely hypocritical if the European Parliament had not debated this issue today, that is, if we had not debated the fact that homophobic public displays and statements have increased in Europe in recent years.
This Parliament rejected Rocco Buttiglione as a Commissioner because of what he said.
They make such statements not only here in the European Parliament but also, to a large extent, on their home territories.
Europe in 2007 should be further along the road than that.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Madam President, we have already had a debate on homophobia in Europe - it was in January of last year - and, on that occasion, I said, among other things, that nobody in the European Parliament should accept that homosexuals, on account of their orientation, should be disadvantaged, attacked or intimidated in any manner whatever.
The problem is that certain statements that are hostile to sexual freedom come from governmental institutions, States and governments that are part of the European Union, who have signed treaties, such as the European Union Treaty, Article 6 of which clearly defines freedom of choice, including sexual choice.
The debate is closed.
