the report by Mrs Herczog, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the Small Business Act.
the Commission statement on workers' participation in companies with a European Statute.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have two reports to advocate here, both of which originate from Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs.
The European Parliament disagreed, however, and this was the background to its legislative own-initiative report under Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 192 of the Treaty, which this House adopted by an overwhelming majority some time ago.
Under these circumstances, the Commission felt compelled to reconsider the idea of the European private company, and has now proposed it within the framework of the Small Business Act - which is very much appreciated.
Up to now, only large companies have had their own company form, namely the European company.
We also believe that we are in line with the case law of the European Court of Justice in the matter of whether the company's seat must be identical to its registered office or seat of administration; that is, that only one company seat can be envisaged.
I know that there is a minority opinion on the subject in this House, but the majority opinion in Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs - from which I assume plenary will take its lead tomorrow - is that there must definitely be the possibility of a separation and that a European company form cannot be disadvantaged in relation to national company forms, which have this possibility under the case law of the European Court of Justice.
rapporteur. - (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are reaching the end of a long process, a long and successful process through which we have been able to move small and medium-sized enterprises from the periphery to the centre.
Ladies first, and not only these days, I will start by thanking Ms Herczog for the quality of her report on the Small Business Act (SBA) and the strong support it provides for the Commission's initiative to establish a comprehensive policy on small- and medium-sized enterprises.
The SBA includes a set of legislative initiatives, including the proposal for a European private company statute.
The SBA also calls for greater recognition of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs.
The SBA action plan and the European economic recovery plan propose ambitious measures in three key areas: first, loosening the supply of much-needed credit; secondly, reducing the administrative burden; and, thirdly, helping SMEs do business abroad.
Your own-initiative report of 2006 and your swift handling of the Commission's proposal are important contributions to the success of the new European Company Statute.
The Private Company Statute is a key element of the Small Business Act.
You have also suggested a flexible solution for the minimum capital requirement.
The European Parliament report has put forward alternative solutions to improve creditor protection.
Finally, I should like to mention the subject that has been the most debated in Parliament and elsewhere, which is workers' participation on the board of European private companies.
Parliament's amendments introduce additional and complex provisions that are not applicable to SMEs formed under national law in most Member States.
This is likely to make the European Private Company Statute unattractive in those Member States and a much less viable option for SMEs.
Some of them could very well pave the way for a swifter compromise among the Member States.
The transfer procedure and safeguards suggested by the Committee on Legal Affairs are very similar to those put forward by the Directive.
We are also not convinced that the Directive would improve the existing situation under national law and the jurisprudence of the European Court of Justice in this area.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - (SV) Mr President, the conditions for small businesses today are crucial for the growth of tomorrow's jobs.
In order to guarantee the coherence and substantive nature of employee participation procedures, reference should be made to the European Directive on works councils, the 10th Directive and the Directive on worker consultation and information.
If we agree on the importance of creating a common European system and if we want to avoid opportunistic relocating, then now that the framework is complete, following the European Company and the European Cooperative Society, it would be a good idea to plan to reopen the issue and take it to the next level.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - (DE) Mr President, the proposal presented by the Commission for the European private company within the framework of the Small Business Act had serious weaknesses.
Every new European company law directive should help achieve the aim of harmonising employees' rights and the idea of the European standard of participation, based on the new EU Reform Treaty, including the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Employees' rights are core rights for a social Europe.
Before their adoption, all EU provisions must be examined in terms of their impact on SMEs.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - (DE) Mr President, we all know that our capacity to build on the growth and innovation potential of small and medium-sized enterprises is decisive for the prosperity of the European Union.
on behalf of the PPE-DE group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to emphasise the significance of this joint debate on SMEs and I sincerely hope that the SMEs will hear the strong signal that our Parliament wishes to send out to them.
It is true that, since 2000, initiatives have been taken on SMEs.
This shows how well we did our work.
As for our group, with the amendments that we have put forward and that our rapporteur has been happy to accept, we have set about looking for a way of getting the Member States and Community bodies more deeply involved to guarantee that the planned measures really deliver added value to the SMEs.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, perhaps you will allow me, firstly, to say something in reaction to the Commission's statement.
Secondly, Commissioner, I really regret your arguments against Parliament's proposals on the co-determination of employees.
Perhaps you should make some phone calls tonight to Mr McCreevy and Mr Špidla and see whether tomorrow you can present a better proposal on this before the vote.
It is also very up-to-date and is not at all obsolete, but very topical at this time, considering the disastrous workings of shareholders and financial markets, to consider a better way of governance for companies, in which employees have a part.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, I would like of course to add my compliments to Mrs Herczog for the excellent 90-point report on the Small Business Act.
However, Commissioner, the work of the European Parliament will only be truly effective with quick and effective implementation in each of our States.
You said in your opening remarks, Commissioner, that on the basis of this report, you were going to create a global strategy, but you will not be unaware that there is currently a financial crisis, an economic crisis and a climate crisis which require fast answers from us.
That is included in Point 87 regarding the Cohesion Fund.
If you heed this call, Commissioner, not only over and above the global strategy that you wish to create, but also in terms of the practical response of the governments and the Commission, then, within the framework of the current recovery plans, there will be provisions that deliver solutions to our fellow citizens straight away.
Mr President, when speaking in this debate I want to draw attention to four issues.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, the draft European Private Company statute is presented by the Commission as a component of the European Small Business Act.
This totally changes the philosophy of the policy, and now what will happen to these pseudo-SMEs?
To this end, all European Private Companies could have their registered office in one country and their real activities in another.
This is why my group proposes that Parliament send a clear signal to the Commission and the Council by rejecting this proposal for a European private company statute. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must resolve this crisis of small and medium-sized enterprises in an authentically European way.
We must do the same; we must give credit to small businesses by issuing money practically as states no longer in debt but in credit. (EL) Mr President, I shall focus my speech on the first of the issues at debate, the statute for a European private company.
This fact proves the shortcomings in the policy to encourage intra-Community business applied to date.
They are included in full in the amendments that we have adopted and I believe that, with these amendments, it is wholly admissible to adopt the text, even from Mr Wurtz's viewpoint.
I should like to congratulate Mrs Herczog on this report.
About 80% of all new jobs in the European Union have been created by SMEs, and in my own constituency of Dublin about 400 000 people are employed by about 100 000 companies in the SME sector.
I welcome the fact that the EIB has a fund of EUR 31 billion for small and medium-sized industries, and I think that more should be done in this area.
If we want to get our small businesses and employment to stabilise in the European Union and in each individual Member State, we must do everything we possibly can to try and save them.
The challenge that we have at the moment is about jobs, jobs, jobs, and we must bend over backwards to try and protect existing employment and, hopefully, in the years ahead try and create new jobs.
That is absolutely essential for all of us. (EL) Madam President, the European private company is an effort to inflict even greater damage on workers' social and labour rights, along the lines of the Bolkestein directive.
The regulation, which is directly applicable in the Member States, is the natural complement to the Bolkestein directive and the anti-labour judgments handed down by the European Court of Justice in the Viking, Laval and Ruffert cases.
The cost of EU regulation in the United Kingdom has been reckoned to be GBP 107 billion over the last ten years.
There are major differences between Member States in this regard.
Ultimately, however, these things are counteracted, or at least can be counteracted, unless we do something about the fact that the registered office and the actual seat - that is, the actual place of business of the company - are allowed to differ, as this ultimately renders these safeguards meaningless.
We congratulate Mrs Herczog, because her report encourages the growth of SMEs on the basis of a principle which is by no means trivial: in the political and economic actions of the EU and its Member States, we should think small first.
In conclusion, I would like to say that it is particularly important to allocate EUR 30 000 million in the 2009-2011 period to encourage lending to SMEs.
As we adopt the Act in Parliament, I believe the primary message should be to say to SMEs that Parliament and the European institutions are standing by them and want to strengthen the will and capacity for resistance that small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe are now demonstrating in the face of this storm.
The second thing that I believe we must demonstrate is that we are helping SMEs in what is currently the most critical factor, namely access to and availability of credit.
The funds made available by the EIB are not enough: it is absolutely crucial that we say - and we will say it tomorrow - that we want to do more to give credit to small and medium-sized enterprises. (PL) Madam President, the financial crisis, and the resulting economic crisis, are inducing employers to attempt to alter the legal status of their firms to reduce costs, including costs connected with employees' rights and social obligations.
Information contained in the report draws attention to the fact that the cross-border transfer of companies' registered offices should not lead to companies avoiding legal, social or tax regulations.
A different means of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises should be be found, such as the provision of loans. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, in Mrs Herczog's report on SMEs we are talking about 70% of jobs and 70% of VAT receipts in the EU.
I would therefore like to express not only my enormous appreciation for the initiative of the rapporteur but also my support.
It is always much harder for SMEs to win public contracts in Europe than it is in the US and many Asian countries.
In the case of a European private company, the owners will be able to register their business in the same form, irrespective of whether they are operating in their own home country, or in any other Member State.
One of the main fears that sceptics have concerns the lack of a requirement for the company to own a sufficient amount of share capital to protect creditors.
The attractiveness of the European private company could be threatened by the threshold for employee participation being set too low.
Moves in this direction include the European private company statute, the initiatives to create companies in 48 hours, to reduce administrative costs by 25% by 2012, the creation of a one-stop scheme for VAT and reduced VAT rates for labour-intensive and locally supplied services, and a common consolidated corporate tax base.
SMEs should increase their participation in the internal market and in public procurement.
At this time in particular, the EU and the Member States need to make things simpler for small businesses, both those already in existence and future businesses, by reducing the number of rules, reducing bureaucracy and lowering costs.
Small and medium-sized enterprises have a totally different capacity from traditional large enterprises when it comes to adapting to new circumstances and adopting new discoveries and technology.
In addition to making it easier for small businesses to participate in public procurement by providing better access to the internal market, making it easier to obtain capital and making the rules on state aid non-discriminatory, there must also be a change in attitude permeating all decision-making, in schools, universities and the workplace.
Finally, I believe the relationship between SMEs and the training and educational spheres is vital: if the SMEs, the small businesses, do not become the natural arena for additional skills training at the various training levels, then in fact we, or rather the SMEs, will cease to have certain extraordinary resources, and by that I mean persons being trained. (PL) Madam President, this legislative proposal corresponds in great measure to the European Parliament resolution, with recommendations to the Commission on the European private company statute, which was adopted two years ago.
On the other hand, this amount is more difficult to raise in some Member States than in others.
Regarding the question of employee participation in the enterprise, this should be decided by the law of the country where the company has its registered office.
However, an exception should be made to this rule if the right of participation of a certain number of employees of the company, which would apply in the Member State where they actually work, would be restricted by the law in force in the country where the European company is registered.
In particular, I would like to welcome the proposal for a directive on reduced VAT rates for labour-intensive and locally supplied services, particularly at this point in time.
I personally have always had doubts about the worth of this measure to small businesses, because I feel that they are better off managing their own credit than leaving this to legislation. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this report we try to underline the importance of SMEs, including family businesses and those integrated in the social economy.
I want to congratulate my colleague, Edit Herczog, as her report is vital in this respect.
Madam President, this report also underlines the many ways of cutting red tape to make it easier to set up this type of enterprise, in order to take advantage of their capacity for initiative, start up new businesses, manufacture new products, provide new services suited to the needs of consumers and other businesses, and thus boost the development of the European economy.
I also want to mention something that is very important in my opinion: this is the issue referred to in paragraph 47 of the Herczog report.
It is advisable for certain aspects of the legal and fiscal system of the Member States to be improved in this respect, as the current model in most Member States can discourage the transfer of businesses, particularly family businesses, thus increasing the risk of liquidation or closure of the company.
Member States must therefore carefully review their legal and fiscal framework to improve the conditions for the transfer of businesses and to promote and apply effective models for the transfer of businesses to employees as an alternative to their closure.
To end, I would point out that support for innovative projects of small and medium-sized enterprises, easier access to European funds and improved access to credit, particularly, but not only, in the current context, are vital factors for supporting SMEs. (RO) First of all, I wish to thank the rapporteur and those who have worked on perhaps the most important piece of legislation from this last parliamentary term.
However, we must emphasise that this is a fairly complex act in which we have included everything we could include relating to SMEs: cutting red tape and attaching particular importance to research and development activities within SMEs and to the finances relating to these activities.
I think that this piece of legislation will bode well during the current economic crisis because the European economy needs cohesion and its biggest driving force, SMEs.
For this reason, I believe that we need to give the Commission and Council our maximum possible support, speed up the approval of this act and be able to highlight the European economy's strength and dynamic activity in this area so as to hold onto, here in Europe, everything that the European economy and production stand for.
Lastly, we must ask the Commission to find as many sources of funding as possible and provide SMEs with as many credit mechanisms as possible. (HU) With regard to the report on small and medium-sized enterprises, I would like first of all to congratulate the Commission and in particular the rapporteur, Mrs Herczog, for the excellent work.
At the same time, I regret that this report was not prepared in accordance with Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure, requesting that the Commission submit concrete legislative proposals.
They are in a particularly difficult situation beyond even the generally disadvantageous status of small and medium-sized enterprises, and yet they could play an extremely important role in overcoming the crisis.
The SME Circle, of which I am President, would emphatically like to see results in the establishment of a thorough guarantee and credit system at EU level.
I think that the text that will be adopted by this House will, in a way, carry his name and the European private company will be known to posterity as the Klaus-Heiner Lehne company.
I believe that the provisions for worker participation proposed in the compromise run counter to the agreed objective, in other words run counter to the ease and effectiveness of this statute for small and medium-sized enterprises.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, I would like to point briefly to the three elements that we believe are essential - although we also have a very broad consensus regarding other elements - and which we wished to highlight when drawing up our opinion.
Thirdly, they take no account of the fact that when we do impose costs, it is often deliberate in order to save money downstream.
Madam President, it is a pity that Mr Toubon is leaving the room, because I wanted to respond to an accusation he made concerning our compromise: namely that it requires new heavy burdens on SMEs.
Regarding new companies starting from scratch, there is a fairly high threshold for companies with fewer than 500 employees.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank everyone for a very interesting debate.
Part of the response lies in the overall process which we are driving together including, for example, the great political signals Parliament has sent to SMEs in 2009.
The EIB is now freeing up space and volume for credits: EUR 30 billion for SMEs, EUR 1 billion a year more for medium-sized corporations, and an additional EUR 1 billion for mezzanine financing.
We recently decided, as you know, to relax the rules on state aid, levering the de minimis threshold to EUR 500 000, which means better conditions in general for more intensified state aid.
The separation of SMEs' registered offices and headquarters is already general practice in half of the Member States, including those with very high standards of social policy safeguards.
Representatives of trade unions, including European trade unions, presented their views at conferences, especially during 2008.
I want to remind you that we already targeted large public companies when we launched the proposal on the European company, and that SPE proposal was designed for SMEs.
Employees' information and consultation rights were dealt with in 2001, in the first directive on the European company.
Since 2002, we have had a general framework for informing and consulting employees in the European Union.
There is no reason to disregard these rules and come up with a different solution in this current proposal on the SPE.
If workers' collective rights are to be improved, which is our intent, this should not be done only in respect of one type of company, but through a more general initiative that also takes into account the different traditions in the Member States.
We have already made important progress in the evaluation of employees' rights in the European company statute.
Legislative initiatives on company law, insolvency law, accounting and tax law are attached to very specific, and often restrictive, legal bases in our Treaties, and the existing Treaty hardly serves as a basis for a complete body of European business law.
Concerning Mr Lehne's report, a lot of work still needs to be done because we need to achieve agreement in the Council.
Mrs van den Burg is right: real SMEs are not affected in the slightest by the compromise we have presented.
The substance of the report actually takes care of all the criticism that has been presented.
rapporteur. - Madam President, it is a great pity that all of my voters are not here in the room, because it was wonderful to listen to so many Members from so many countries and so many parties welcoming my report on the Small Business Act.
I have received four motions for a resolution from four political groups on the participation of workers in the European private company.
We also call for recognition in all Member States of the status of co-ownership for women working in small family businesses.
SMEs account for more than 90% of the EU economy and two-thirds of its jobs.
in writing. - (DA) The aim of this proposal, according to the Commission, is to improve the framework conditions for business in the EU's internal market.
The proposal will achieve this by giving enterprises the ability to freely choose the EU Member State in which to have their registered address, regardless of where their actual operations take place, and for them only to be obliged to comply with the laws of the country in which they have their registered address.
This will open the way for the circumvention of hard-won workers' rights in the EU Member States.
Suddenly, 150 employees are required in order to obtain employee representation.
In most other EU Member States, the situation is even worse.
