Member of the Commission. - The subject of the first question is covered in detail in the Commission's 2008 report on public finances in the EMU.
Overall, in 2007 the euro area recorded its lowest structural fiscal deficit since 1973.
At the same time, the 2005 reform introduced enough economic rationale into the pact to be able to react flexibly to serious disturbances where necessary, in particular through the revised flexibility clause and the incorporation of implicit liabilities in MTOs.
The functioning of the revised pact is well documented in the Commission reports on public finances in the EMU of 2006, 2007 and 2008 and in the accompanying communication.
Subject: Mortgage crisis and financial regulations During the spring, there were further economic problems and strains in the global financial markets, caused particularly by the spreading mortgage crisis.
Member of the Commission. - International financial markets have now been in turmoil for about one year and the interaction between accumulating losses in the financial system and the deteriorating global economic outlook make it very difficult to predict when the turmoil will end.
The current situation in financial markets illustrates how the problem that seemed initially limited to a specific market segment, for the United States and sub-prime mortgages, can rapidly affect the international financial system as a whole.
Banks are increasingly forced to recapitalise, often at high cost and in difficult market conditions.
Concerning energy purchases, if the honourable Member is agreeable, I will reply in writing because I think it is a very specific question and I would hesitate to give a concrete figure.
Member of the Commission. - With regard to the application of the Community rules regarding aircraft operations, the Commission has no indication of weaknesses or safety-related loopholes in the respective air safety legislation which only recently became applicable in the Community on 16 July 2008.
With regard to the application of Community rules regarding occurrence reporting, the Commission is satisfied that all Member States have set up a mandatory reporting system and collect the information in national databases.
The exchange of information is still not fully operational, because it requires the agreement on individual protocols between each Member State and the Commission for the updating of the central repository in accordance with the Commission Regulation.
The dissemination of information is correctly implemented on the basis of the Commission Regulation of 24 September 2007.
Evidence of the good cooperation is the fact that the Agency has been able to double the number of inspections since the relevant rules were adopted in 2006, and the safeguard measures imposed on a Member State at the end of that year were lifted this week. (EL) I am very grateful to the Commission for its answer, but I do wonder, Commissioner.
It is very clear that it is implemented, and we have all the measures in place.
But today I can assure you that Europe's aviation safety meets the highest standards that exist anywhere in the world. (DE) The situation is as follows: the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) is now being given more and more competences in order to guarantee a uniform standard of safety in Europe, and that is most welcome.
By 2030, energy demand in the EU is expected to grow by 20% and electricity demand by 38%.
Electricity-generation capacity is forecast to grow by 31%, but, under the PRIMES baseline assumptions studied by the Commission, the share of nuclear energy will decrease from 30% to 20% in electricity generation.
The Commission is following the overall picture of ongoing investments in the nuclear energy sector in the EU.
In 2007, the Commission adopted the Nuclear Illustrative Programme which provides an overview of the status of the EU nuclear sector.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission agrees with the opinion of the honourable Member that clear regulatory policy is needed for investors in first-generation biofuels in order to get to the second-generation biofuels.
So it is not that we are discouraging it, but I believe that if there is no clear sustainability requirement the damage done by one unsuccessful project will be to the detriment of the whole industry, because the focus is so strong now on biofuels that we cannot afford to have any unsuccessful projects, because that would mean the end of the whole industry.
There are educational programmes, because generally this is not education about biofuels but about sustainability, energy efficiency and a quite different attitude towards the environment and knowing that whatever you use is taken from somewhere and is always doing damage.
So there are different applications of this technology, and it will grow in the European Union.
Perhaps there is a need for some kind of hybrid, because if you travel a longer distance, electric vehicles might not be satisfactory - but for biofuel-driven vehicles there is no problem.
Member of the Commission. - You know that the Commission yesterday decided on a proposal for the second roaming package - this time on SMS and data roaming.
Parliament will remember very well that this analysis of the market was done at the request of Parliament which, during the voice roaming package in June last year, put in Article 11 of the Regulation that the Commission should come back to SMS and data roaming in due course in 2008.
Our proposal therefore is to cap the retail charge at a maximum of 11 cents and the wholesale charge at a maximum of 4 cents.
With regard to the question on roaming, is there not a risk that, because we bring down prices on roaming, the operators try to raise prices in another way?
Firstly, citizens, instead of switching off their phones when they are abroad, are now using them.
After all, we recently read in New Europe, the news source for Europe, that roaming has allegedly cost European consumers 30 billion euro.
Member of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner Piebalgs should really answer that question, but I will pass it on to him.
Subject: Break in transmission of the Chinese TV channel NTDTV On 16 June transmission of New Tang Dynasty Television (NTDTV) to mainland China was suddenly halted by the operating firm Eutelsat.
NTDTV is the largest independent TV broadcaster in Chinese and, before 16 June, the only one which could be received in uncensored form in China.
I cannot impose it, but I favour it, and I believe that slowly but surely we will move beyond the national selling of rights to the European selling of rights.
Commission Member. - (RO) The European Commission's new strategy on multilingualism, entitled ”Multilingualism - An asset for Europe - A shared commitment”, was adopted on 18 September 2008.
Through Regulation 1 of the Council of 15 April 1958, amended by article 1 of Regulation 920/2005(EC) of the Council of 13 June 2005, Irish became an official working language of European Union institutions as of 1 January 2007.
However, articles 2 and 3 of the Regulation provide for a partial derogation, renewable every 5 years, concerning the use of Irish by European Union institutions.
I would like to inquire of the Commissioner, if the Commission would be happy to see the Irish language develop and if it would be possible to use it to a greater extent here in Parliament and in the other Institutions, especially, at committee level where the language could be spoken for longer periods.
I would also like to stress that we are working closely with the Irish authorities with respect to the various developments of the Irish language, not only its institutional aspects.
We want to do our best to help Irish terminology and, as I said, we have a close cooperation with all the stakeholders.
Subject: Multilingualism in the EU institutions The Commission organises traineeship programmes which it publicises only in English, French and German.
In order to fulfil the mission described in Article 177 of the Treaty, the number of admissible languages for the proposals of the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights must be limited to those languages which are currently used and understood in the respective third countries.
According to the action plan for improved communication with the citizens, in 2006 the Commission set up a web translation service within DG Translation, thus increasing its capacity for multilingual communication.
Therefore, the Commission ensures the translation in as many languages as possible of those websites or website sections which are of interest to all citizens, whereas more technical subjects, which are of interest to specialists, are available either in a limited number of languages or in their original language only.
Apart from discharging these duties, and in accordance with the principle of multilinguism and multiculturalism, the Commission undertakes to make every effort in order to ensure the equal treatment of citizens, cultures and languages. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would say first of all that the distinction you have suggested drawing between documents of a technical nature and - if I have correctly understood the interpretation - documents of public interest strikes me as a particularly dangerous and slippery distinction, since documents of a technical nature may in actual fact be of considerable public interest.
The websites must be not only multilingual but registered in all languages.
Commission Member. - (RO) As I said, the European Commission is bound, on the one hand, by legal obligations under Regulation 1 of 1958, and there is no hesitation whatsoever in the fulfillment of these obligations; on the other hand, there are certain matters, such as the ones you mentioned, related to the translations available on European Commission websites, in which case the Commission and the other community institutions are facing a major dilemma.
