(1) &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise to speak on statements made in France by one of the Members of this House, Mr Gollnisch.
The fact is that this is not just about Mr Buttiglione, but now also about Mr Barroso himself.
In examining the Commission communication, we started from a principle according to which the main objective of the Generalised System of Preferences is, and must above all continue to be, the economic and social development of those countries, pursued in the spirit of international solidarity that should govern the foreign policy of the Union.
The opinions I am expressing today, as Chairman of the Committee on Development, are therefore only preliminary opinions, but they also appear in the motion that all the political groups have deemed it advisable to sign.
Secondly, I would also like to say that our committees are pleased with the Commission’s determination to improve and simplify the system of rules of origin.
With a view to guaranteeing a reasonable degree of transparency and democratic control, I would ask the Commission and the Council to begin a process of consultation on the first Regulation on the application of the new GSP sufficiently in advance for the associated countries, the non-governmental agents and the institutions of the European Union – including the European Parliament first and foremost – to participate and be adequately consulted.
In this regard, I believe the Council’s conclusions approved in Luxembourg on 11&#160;October are positive, since they refer to the need for explicit consultation with Parliament, thus going further than what is currently laid down in the Treaties.
Since I do not know whether I will have another opportunity to do so, I will end by inviting my fellow Members to join me in thanking the Commissioner for his excellent work on the Trade portfolio and in particular for the spirit of cooperation he has demonstrated in his work as Commissioner. [Mr Lamy, I wish you every success in your next reincarnation]. &#160;&#160; .
The GSP should be stable, predictable, objective, simple, transparent and compatible with the WTO, and it must take account of the developing countries’ specific needs.
Preferential access to the markets of the developed countries is a contributory factor in the economic development of the developing countries and helps to integrate them into the global economy.
The substantial preferential rights conferred by GSP+ encourage developing countries to abide by treaties in the areas of human rights, labour rights, the environment and good governance, of which the fight against drugs forms an important component.
It consists of granting preferential tariffs, or reductions in customs duties, to nearly 180 developing countries, on the basis of general principles which we revise every ten years.
As it encourages European importers to source supplies from these countries, the Generalised System of Preferences is in fact an aid to development through trade.
In addition, we are all aware that the EU’s enlargement to include ten new Member States can only increase its superiority in this area.
Be that as it may, the system has produced positive results; for example, the latest definitive figures available show that, between 2000 and 2002, our imports under this system grew from EUR&#160;47&#160;billion to EUR&#160;53&#160;billion, which is a significant growth, especially as certain products were removed from the GSP list for technical reasons.
We should take these experiences into account,&#160;and the objectives of the Commission’s proposed reform are therefore to make the system of preferences simpler, more generous, more targeted at the countries which need it and more objective.
We must therefore adjust them in order to move away from the old system and to take into account the fact that processes today have changed.
We intend to target the system of preferences at the beneficiary countries which need it most, which in reality means the smallest developing countries, those which are landlocked and those which are the most vulnerable, and not the large countries which already occupy positions of increasing significance in international trade, such as China’s position in the international textile and clothing trade.
Our response on this issue will be to target graduation at the idea of competitiveness of beneficiary products.
The last point upon which I wish to speak, Mr&#160;President, is in response to the oral questions.
It goes without saying that we hope that this House will give its opinion, as this reform is important both from the point of view of development and from that of trade policy, and I should like to thank Mr Barón Crespo for his comments on the work of this Commission, in particular in its relations with Parliament, an aspect which will remain unchanged.
This means that the first implementing regulation should be adopted during the next few months.
Next week, on 20 October, I will present it to my colleagues, and it will be available to you immediately afterwards.
I am sure that those of you who are committed to the system for development policy reasons will understand my concern on this point. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it has already been stated that the Generalised System of Preferences offers trade benefits to the countries that are most in need of them.
More specifically, the European Union should endeavour to promote a greater effectiveness of the instruments of the International Labour Organisation, for example by the possible opening of enquiries to monitor respect for core labour standards under the GSP procedure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European preferential system is certainly, post-enlargement, the most important and most generous system in the world by far.
It is, for example, unclear why the number of beneficiary countries is not subject to a thorough review, so that countries that are in the Top 20 in terms of world trade no longer walk away with preferences that are, in fact, intended for the poorest.
I can understand Commissioner Lamy when he states that prompt action is needed, but like the Council, I should like to insist on thorough consultation with the European Parliament and on all parties involved being given the time to adapt.
It is vital that Parliament and all other interested stakeholders have a proper opportunity to input into this very important process, and I am glad that Commissioner Lamy has agreed to that.
Organisations like Oxfam have made some very detailed proposals in this area.
I would be very interested in the views of the Commission and Council on that proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it is apparent from the separate motions for a resolution submitted by the individual groups in response to one Commission communication that a very large number of their demands were identical.
One of our concerns relates to the new products the Commission proposes to add to the GSP system.
Trade revenue can help increase the level of investments in basic services, but, in developing countries, particularly on the African continent, world trade plays far too small a role.
The European Union can, and must, change this.
Only Sri Lanka and Moldavia have benefited from it, and, as Mr&#160;Sturdy stated a moment ago, the complexity of the rules and limited capacity have meant that even Sri Lanka has, in fact, made too little use of the potential.
Indeed, if we really want fundamental working standards, to name but one major aspect, to be adhered to in practice in those countries and to be given a chance in them, we must actively focus our efforts.
Finally, we should not pursue fair trade alone, but also, with regard to the protection of our own employees, fair competition.
Finally, if we want to encourage the regional economy, we must be open-handed in this respect too.
We must now help the rest of them to make greater use of both Cotonou and Everything But Arms. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to applaud the Commission's initiative to present a Communication prior to the reform of the GSP system, and I also applaud the timely initiative of our two parliamentary committees to present this oral question with debate jointly, the terms of which are indicative of Parliament’s desire for clarification of the Communication and, even more importantly, of the future legislation to modify the current GSP system.
We agree with the Commission that we need to simplify, concentrate and ultimately improve the system in order to make it more effective in terms of achieving its aims.
We therefore reject the amendments which go further than this compromise and which create ambiguity in the treatment of rules of origin, which we wish to make as clear, transparent and precise as possible in order to help third countries, while preventing fraud in their application. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too welcome what is an extremely necessary and timely initiative by the Commissioner, and I would also like to thank him very much for his cooperation and hard work during his time as Commissioner, which Parliament has appreciated very much.
The Commissioner himself acknowledges that it contains a lot of very broad proposals.
I also look forward to more details on the rules of origin, because it is quite difficult to judge at this point whether what is being proposed is anything more than cosmetic.
At the meeting in Gaborone, the EU agreed to postpone until 2006 the anticipated review of the situation of non-LDCs that are not in a position to enter into EPAs.
The Commissioner talked about landlocked countries, etc., but he needs to spell things out more clearly so that we know exactly what he means. &#160;&#160; I should like to echo the words of thanks expressed by my fellow Members to Commissioner Lamy for the cooperation and to wish him well in his future career.
You mentioned China as a very obvious example, but what about the position of Pakistan and India, for example?
Secondly, the GSP+ system does indeed make it possible to use trade as a lever for human rights, labour rights, the environment and good governance.
Commissioner, you explained that it is not only about ratification, but also about application, but quite honestly, it was not entirely clear to me which treaties you have in mind.
Finally, I should like to warmly thank Commissioner Pascal Lamy for a fruitful cooperation over the past couple of years.
If, however, Sri Lanka wishes to procure its textiles in the surrounding region, we are probably – I must check with my colleagues – open to this.
Mrs Kinnock and Mrs Van Lancker want more details on the thresholds and on the lists of the conventions and the sanctions.
At the close of this debate, I have received six draft resolutions.(1) The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Commission statement on the European Union’s strategy to combat the use of drugs in sport.
In fact, as you know, I have made strenuous efforts for the past five years to bring drug use onto the Community’s agenda and to take the most effective action possible within our competences.
The breakdown is as follows: I feel that, in five years, we have done as much as we possibly could within the existing legal framework, and bearing in mind the reluctance on the part of several Member States and sections of the sporting world to consider Community level to be an essential level in the fight against drug use.
In recent years, we have been obliged to behave like teachers in explaining what our powers and our limits are in this field.
I should like to mention, for example, our study on the use of drugs in gyms, together with projects involving young people and a list of the laws and regulations in the Member States.
Let us speak now about WADA, the World Anti-Doping Agency.
After all, the fight against drug use is, by definition, an international phenomenon.
I should also like to mention the European Year of Education through Sport, during which we set up an information and warning system for our young people; in other words, an entire prevention system.
I have effectively been trying to demonstrate, for five years, that the Commission is not solely interested in sport as an economic phenomenon, but that sport is, above all, a social activity with educational and ethical aspects.
I know that, as recorded in the Commission's 2002 survey, 6% of people who exercise in gymnasia and fitness centres use pharmaceutical substances which enhance their performance.
Secondly, by creating a legal framework – and I am delighted that you corrected the point that WADA should be an organisation under public law – which will allow the European Commission to participate efficiently in its work, in accordance with everything we had the opportunity to discuss together.
Legislative cooperation to prevent the spread of drug use and collaboration between the authorities are the means by which the European Union can effectively address the drugs problem in sport and prevent it and any other drug-related abuse at the same time.
The World Anti-Doping Agency, WADA, coordinates and promotes the fight against drugs worldwide.
Matters relating to drug use in sport often make up quite a conspicuous number of sports news stories in the media.
In 1999, the Commission announced that it would promote a proposal for a recommendation to the Council in accordance with Article 152 and, in the first half of 2002, that it would publish a proposal on doping based on Article 152.
I am sorry because, on 14 September, in reply to a question in the European Parliament, you told us that there was no legal basis for us to do more.
Yet, in May 2000, you said that there was a legal basis and it was public health.
We therefore ask the Commission whether it should not actually commit itself more thoroughly to the battle against drug use and whether, after having financed research projects on the phenomenon, it should not now go on to finance information and persuasion campaigns, prevention campaigns in brief, which would be truly more incisive. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as we are condemning the use of stimulants in sport, I&#160;would agree with all of the previous speakers that it is a&#160;question involving amateur sportsmen and women as well as professionals.
We are all delighted that we can finally hear the voice of Leyla Zana.
President Klaus Hänsch, in his speech to this House when you were awarded the Sakharov Prize, was waiting impatiently for the day when you could speak to us in person.
And you had to carry this burden alone.
My aim is once again to emphasise the brotherhood between peoples, languages and cultures.
I greet you all in this spirit and in friendship.
The fact that the values represented by Sakharov are sacred and inviolable values has increased my moral and humanitarian responsibilities, and I am speaking to you now fully aware of this fact.
It breaks my heart to see that our children are being lost, in whatever part of the world it may be happening, but first and foremost in my own country of course.
The wars in Iraq, in Palestine, in Halabja, in the Balkans, in Beirut, in Chechnya, in Ireland, in Spain and all kinds of other wars that do not come to mind at the moment, have taught us many things and continue to do so.
A new democratic constitution that is in line with universal law must be drawn up and, within that constitution, as the Turkish President, Mr Sezer, has said, the Kurds must be recognised as majority elements and they must be protected.
Peace in Turkey will mean peace in the Middle East, peace in Europe and peace in the world.
Europe and the world should be able to demolish the invisible walls that have been built between them and the Kurds, and furthermore act as a bridge in order to find a solution to this problem.
I address my final appeal to the Kurds, to those who have fought for democracy in all the geographical regions they live in; they must first of all live in peace amongst each other.
The only way to prevent that is through internal unity and cohesion, peace amongst ourselves, and our own solidarity and our own policies.
I dedicate this speech to brotherhood and happiness amongst the Turkish and Kurdish people.
My best wishes to all of you in love and friendship. &#160;&#160; Mrs Leyla Zana, in your speech you talked of Turkey as your country and called for recognition of the identity of the Kurdish people within Turkish sovereign territory.
So, Mrs Zana, just as earlier I welcomed you in your language, Kurdish, please allow me now to also thank you in your other language, Turkish: Which means, ‘thank you very much for your speech’.
So once again Mrs Zana, ’. &#160;&#160; We will now continue with the debate on doping in sport.
We still have a number of speakers on the list to get through before we can proceed to the vote, so I would ask for self-discipline. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this should prove a popular moment in this House and I am grateful for the massive turnout for the continuation of the debate on drugs in sport.
That is why we must educate and prevent, why we must test and deter and why we must do both these things together. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, doping in sport has become a worrying phenomenon, which the European Union is obliged to confront because, as the Commission has said, national responses are not sufficient.
European children and young people must return to the idea that sport is a healthy, character-building and sociable activity, in which the important thing is to participate.
Every form of professional sport needs to be abolished, the umbilical cord between sport and business and sponsors needs to be cut, mass amateur sport needs to be consolidated ... &#160;&#160; – In view of the fact that the European Union Constitution mentions sports, I believe that, as far as we can, we must take responsibility for sport.
Today the fight against drug use requires international collaboration.
This, ladies and gentlemen, is the direction in which we need to move. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 29 November the Committee on Culture and Education will hold a hearing of experts on this matter, after which Parliament will want to bring forward specific proposals.
Apart from that, I share the view of many Members that controls must simply be tightened up and made more universal, thereby enabling misuse to be better identified. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as someone who has had plenty of experience of amateur and professional sport and who has participated in several world championships and Olympic Games, I understand clearly the danger of illegal drugs in sport.
People who use illegal drugs in sport are nothing but cheats.
Science has shown illegal drugs to damage the physical and mental capacity of human beings.
It is only the beginning, however, and we must continue this action while we await more powers and more possibilities as a result of the new treaty.
We have a duty to protect our young people, to protect professional and amateur sportspeople and to protect public health, and in this regard, I would like to emphasise that all the honourable Members who have talked about laboratories, labelling, testing and prevention are absolutely right.
Secondly, I would like to say to our Italian colleagues that we are prepared to accept an Italian Commissioner with the personal and intellectual rigour of Leonardo da Vinci or Michelangelo. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to speak on an issue that is no less important, and that affects millions of computer owners throughout the European Union, as well as hundreds of thousands of European small- and medium-sized enterprises.
This issue may well be no less important for our voters than the major political debates.
For this reason, I would advocate a yes to the first part and a no to the second. (2) &#160;&#160; My oral amendment to paragraph 1a is as follows: ‘Requests the Georgian Government to define its commitment, which appears to be a precondition for achieving a peaceful solution of conflicts and national unification based on consent, towards the autonomy of Abkhazia and South Ossetia.’ (3) &#160;&#160; We have voted against this report.
We are in favour, however, of financial support for the EU’s future Member States, but this must be channelled to neglected regions and directed at education, infrastructure and legal institutions. &#160;&#160; .– The aim of the proposed amendment to Regulation (EC) No 1268/1999 is to approve the pre-accession measures for agriculture and rural development in the applicant countries of Central and Eastern Europe which did not join in May 2004, Romania and Bulgaria.
The proposed amendments are intended to harmonise certain provisions applicable in new Member States to include a new eligible measure enabling the rural communities of Bulgaria and Romania to prepare and implement local rural development strategies, to bring aid rates into line with those granted to countries acceding to the Union in 2004 and, lastly, to clarify the ceilings on aid rates.
We must therefore prepare and implement rural development strategies to address this particular phenomenon.
Consequently – and this phenomenon can still be seen in my own country to this day – I voted in favour of the proposal for a Council regulation on Community support for pre-accession measures for agriculture and rural development in the applicant countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
I therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I abstained from the vote, as I believe that the process of ratifying the Constitutional Treaty, which I sincerely hope will succeed, is clearly a sovereign event in the Member States.
We believe that a communication strategy is required, but do not believe that the Council and the Commission should go in for conducting campaigns. &#160;&#160; The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted against Mr&#160;Leinen’s motion for a resolution (B6-0067/2004).
What we ought to do, in fact, is respect both the national processes for ratifying the draft Treaty establishing a European Constitution and the right of the various political forces to analyse the far-reaching and serious political and constitutional consequences for the Member States and their citizens.
It is up to the citizens of the Member States or their representatives in the national parliaments to accept or reject this draft Treaty.
European Union institutions by interfering in this process severely violate the subsidiary principle. &#160;&#160; We voted against the Leinen report, because we reject the draft EU Constitution.
It should therefore be decided on in referendums in each EU country, with the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ sides being given equal resources and the opportunity to take part in the debate on equal conditions. &#160;&#160; .– The MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece will vote against the resolution on the ratification procedures of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe and the communication strategy because its basic aim is to mislead the people of the Member States and to pervert the history of Europe.
We disagree with the proposed Constitution or any Constitution of big business and war, in that its aim is the power of the European monopolies, to the detriment of the social and political rights of the working and grass-roots classes.
We must point out, moreover, that recognition of the right to vote in local elections must provide for a detailed regulatory framework through an appropriate proposal that would clearly specify the procedures, times and the specific legal context. &#160;&#160; The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of the Bourlanges report (A6-0010/2004) on the future of the area of freedom, security and justice.
I should therefore like to stress the importance of adopting the following amendments: - acknowledges that immigrants must not be considered a temporary workforce, but are in fact essential to our society’s future; - underlines the importance of the decisions and the framework decision on protecting the rights of migrant workers and their family members adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 18&#160;December 1990; - acknowledges the bad experience of refugee camps even within the territory of Member States of the European Union.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome both the Commission's intention to reform the generalised system of preferences and the resolution that we have just adopted.
Again, it is important that this be protected in any reform of the GSP.
I regret that the Commission did not follow up Parliament’s recommendation that the current functioning and impact of the current GSP should be subject to a thorough assessment.
I voted in favour for all of these reasons and in light of all of my previous speeches that have highlighted the aspect of Europe’s solidarity with developing countries, and its historical ties and responsibilities in this field. &#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned. (1)
