The Committee on Budgets voted against this.
Now we in the Committee on Budgets, however, have voted against this money by a majority, and we Members cannot spend any more money on inviting the local media here.
rapporteur. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union budget for 2008 is the second in this programming period.
The Council in its draft budget cut commitment appropriations to EUR 128.4 billion and payment appropriations to EUR 119.4 billion, that is to say EUR 10.3 billion under an already very tight financial framework.
Under heading 1 (sustainable growth and employment), payment appropriations were cut by a full EUR 1 046 million, although it was an unconditional priority of budget policy.
This autumn, Parliament also received the Commission's letter of amendment proposing an additional EUR 262 million for external actions.
Furthermore, the Commission also proposed a review of the financial framework so that adequate funds could be set aside for the Galileo global positioning system and the European Institute of Innovation and Technology for the period 2008-2013.
The proposal was consistent with Parliament's resolution adopted on 20 June and the first reading on the EIT legislation.
Commitment appropriations have been increased, in particular for research and training under the Lisbon Strategy and for the Trans-European Networks.
Heading 1a also relates to funding for the Galileo navigation system.
At present, 63% of the programmes under the Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund remain unapproved, as do 83% of European Social Fund programmes and 75% of rural development programmes, even though the first programme year is already coming to an end.
The slowness of this administration seriously threatens the EU's structural and cohesion policy and, in particular, the reconstruction of the new Member States, as the current financial framework is a massive European reconstruction project, bigger than the Marshall Plan after the Second World War.
In this draft budget, however, just EUR 22.1 billion and EUR 5.3 billion have been set aside for structural measures and rural development respectively for the new Member States.
Another huge problem area relates to heading 4 (EU as a global partner).
The preliminary draft budget was clearly inadequate, owing to which the Commission in its letter of amendment proposed EUR 120 million for Kosovo and EUR 142 million for Palestine.
The Council also proposed increases of EUR 260 million for the same regions.
The Committee on Budgets adopted the Commission's approach, but added a further EUR 10 million for both Kosovo and Palestine.
It agrees a cut of EUR 40 million, which otherwise would have to be made in the Common Foreign and Security Policy, as the increase the Council proposed is an obvious area of interest for them and would jeopardise Parliament's priorities.
The asterisk proposal also incorporates the increases called for by the Committee on Foreign Affairs for Palestine and Kosovo, a total of EUR 40 million, plus a smaller adjustment of EUR 7 million for the Global Health Fund and certain other lines.
Concerning the decentralised agencies, may I say that the Committee restored the EUR 32 million in cuts made by the Council and the personnel cuts.
The most substantial change related to the border control agency, Frontex, appropriations for which were increased by EUR 30 million.
The sum total for the draft budget before us is EUR 129 680 billion, which is EUR 623 million under the multiannual financial framework.
The figure is EUR 5 300 million under the financial framework, and so the Committee on Budgets has shown great discipline in drawing up this proposal for deliberation by the European Parliament.
I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Reimer Böge, for his excellent leadership, and the coordinators and shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups.
I also want to thank the Commission, and, in particular, Commissioner Grybauskaite, for showing a positive attitude, and also the Portuguese Presidency, which in tripartite negotiations and conciliation demonstrated a constructive attitude and deference.
Finally, I want to express my appreciation and gratitude to the Committee on Budget's secretariat and the administrators responsible for the budget in my own group and the other political groups for the enormous amount of work they have done.
He rightly says that 2008 is year two in a seven-year financial perspective.
Secondly, under Heading 4, we already know that demand for funding for Palestine and Kosovo will extend the margin under this heading quite considerably.
This in part has been met by a reduction in funding for the CFSP.
I therefore call on the Council, in particular, to show far greater urgency to address this situation.
The amount of payments, at less than EUR 130 billion, or 0.99% of GDP, is very skimpy and cannot support hopes for the development of European policy.
The teamwork in the Committee on Budgets means that the budgetary priorities of the political groups can be maintained, but the financial framework prevents the revival of the growth policies promised to European citizens.
For the EU's external relations, we are reducing the expenditure of the CFSP by 40 million because we have to honour our commitments and the EU's commitments: to preserve the emergency aid reserve, help the most disadvantaged countries, support the Global Fund to fight AIDS, the World Health Fund and maintain development aid.
For Kosovo and Palestine, the flexibility instrument will need to be mobilised to provide EUR 87 million.
For the European Commission, I recognise that the reserve of EUR 40 million is harsh but it reflects our doubts over the effectiveness of implementing ABM.
It would not be reasonable to reduce the funding for research and transport in order to find money for Galileo, as is being proposed by the EU Finance Ministers.
If the EU Member States agree that we are to have Galileo, they must also provide the funding for it without using it for other purposes.
However, in spite of this, it has been possible to keep the expenses below the 20% ceiling.
Europe must take a major step forward here, as it is only by persuading other continents and large countries like China and India and the United States that we can draw up policy on climate change and create new jobs that we shall also win over the hearts of our citizens.
On the other hand, I think that we can, of course, economise on the European budget, on agricultural export subsidies, for example, as well as in the cultivation of tobacco and also on the costs of our meetings here in Strasbourg.
If we think this is politically correct, however, the Council must stir itself here, otherwise we shall lose contact with the United States, as well as with China and India.
With regard to the European Institute of Innovation and Technology, if we really want to show that Europe is a continent that genuinely values knowledge and wants to be a knowledge-based society, the Council will also have to do more here.
In conclusion, I should like to thank all my fellow Members who have been collaborating on this budget.
The fact is that the Council's proposal for the budget total is incredibly low compared with combined national income and that Parliament's proposal also represents an exceptionally low level of budgetary expenditure.
The EU's budgetary process is profoundly outmoded and therefore beneath contempt.
We must ask the following question: if we were starting today (and not 50 years ago), what would we invest our budgetary resources in?
We are therefore in completely the wrong place.
The conditions were that the films would be viewed by 18 October of this year and only those Members who had seen all three films could and should vote under this budget item initiative.
Please ensure that the Minutes are not tampered with outside at the last minute, because the deadline for watching the films, the viewing deadline, was 18 October.
We are constantly throwing money around here without thinking about it because we have too much money and therefore even good ideas such as the film award are being knocked down.
At the same time, I would also like to say that, no matter how satisfied we are and our cooperation is, we still have some comments to make and say that still, in most cases, Parliament made reserves.
We are satisfied at how Parliament tackled this question in the proposal and at first reading.
The Council increased the Commission's 2008 preliminary draft budget of EUR 6.672 billion to EUR 6.89 billion, mainly by adding additional amounts for Palestine and Kosovo.
Now we hear from the Council that much higher amounts are required, particularly in the area of security policy.
If we have approved some EUR 250 million a year for the CFSP from 2007 to 2013, the shortfall in funding will already be apparent.
In 2007 we are spending significantly more than estimated, up to EUR 400 million.
We also need more money next year than the Commission and the Council have so far estimated.
We have invested a great deal of money in the past to combat malaria, tuberculosis and Aids and we want to help these countries genuinely develop through preventive measures such as, for example, the abolition of small arms, land mines and ABC weapons by setting up a conflict prevention network and cross-border cooperation between the developing countries.
We have to do this but we should not do it by extracting money from the poorest of the poor and by believing that we could detect something like continuity in this switchyard or that people outside might have the feeling that we are working on helping the poorest of the poor there in a really concentrated manner.
We need to be able to promote European goods in third countries.
We know that the European Commission cannot evaluate the extent to which Member States have complied with this commitment until 15 February.
We are sure that the Commission has as much interest as Parliament does in ensuring that the Member States fully apply paragraph 44 in the area of shared management.
The second point is transparency.
We have therefore asked for the creation of new budgetary lines in areas of spending that are very sensitive for Parliament, such as agencies, rural development and other categories such as external action, with a view to, I repeat, a very clear commitment from Parliament and from the Committee on Budgetary Control, which was to contribute to maximum transparency, which is what public opinion demands of us.
I should particularly like to highlight the three pilot projects in the social sector, even though the Committee on Budgets has not approved the funds for this in one instance and has substantially reduced them in a second instance.
Even the project on the employment situation in health care, which has been reduced somewhat by the Committee on Budgets, is particularly close to my heart, because there have been considerable problems here since the EU enlargements in 2004 and 2007.
The pilot project should therefore be carried out as we have devised it.
The EMEA, EEA, EFSA and ECDC - these are the abbreviations for our agencies, with whose work we are entirely satisfied - have also recovered their money.
We shall certainly be able to make an evaluation at the end of the year or in early 2009.
The Committee on Industry has been arguing very clearly in favour of funding not being at the expense of other forward-looking programmes.
We should not therefore be taking money from the Seventh Research Framework Programme, from a programme for life-long learning or from the Trans-European Networks programme to finance the European Institute of Innovation and Technology.
Having said that, it is crucial, in my view, that the project ultimately continues.
This should also be taken into account during the upcoming negotiations.
I would like to mention or remind you of the importance that everything related to the internal market has in the European Union.
In some years, such as last year and next year, 2008, in which important legislation is to be adopted, for example the Services Directive, and also there are plans to continue moving towards legislation to perfect the internal market, we understand that it is necessary to recover the amounts envisaged in the PDB.
The same argument could apply to Title 14, 'Customs Union', which also refers to perfecting the Union's external borders, which, in turn, will enable us to ensure that our single market functions correctly.
Mr President, in its opinion the Committee on Regional Development gave particular attention to the budgetary lines relating to Chapter XIII, or the heading 'Regional Policy'.
The Committee on Budgets met our demands, and even, in line 130616 relating to the European Regional Development Fund, asked for an increase in payments of EUR 900 million.
The Committee on Budgets also shared our concern about the use of the unallocated part of the money in the cohesion area for additional funding of other projects, such as the European Institute of Technology, on the strength of a decision by the Council that would be at odds with the principle of cohesion and would also deplete the European Parliament's prerogatives.
I believe that when we take a good look at how successful the ERASMUS programme has been, whereby university students in Europe can study in different countries, make friends in other parts of Europe, and discuss it afterwards among their friends and contacts, it is clear that it makes an essential contribution to mutual understanding in Europe.
I believe that we should do more for communication, especially now that the Heads of State or Government have agreed on the Reform Treaty.
The Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs had defined three main priorities for the 2008 budget.
Appropriations were therefore put in reserve for the Schengen SIS I and SIS II systems and for the visa information system, known as the VIS for short.
The Council should know this: no Directive, no dough.
I hope that Parliament will also support the budget amendments and that these resources will be used appropriately to strengthen the European Union.
Unfortunately, our amendment did not get through and we will now raise it in the Plenary once again.
Now, as to the question of the Committee on Petitions, we felt we should suggest to the Committee on Budgets that the proposed increase of 4.69% in the Ombudsman's budget was fair and appropriate, partly because the Ombudsman is now a key political figure in the democracy and transparency of the European Union and in sound administration, which he must guard vigilantly. (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, the most important item in the budget for 2008 is cohesion policy.
We can also state with certainty that we have managed European citizens' money well, in other words responsibly, for the 2008 budget is much lower than the ceilings set out in the financial framework.
That is why it is disappointing that daggers are still drawn in the debate on the Galileo Programme budget or on the European Institute of Technology.
However, our message fell on deaf ears and now the Council has to make it up as it goes along.
However, since the required funds are not available in Heading 1a, and are not going to fall from the sky, we are prepared to take it from other budget categories, from Heading 2 2007 and 2008, making EUR 2.2 billion, and EUR 220 million from Heading 5.
Anyway, we are prepared to create the preconditions for Galileo, a flagship of European technological innovation.
That fact that, as part of this minor revision, we are prepared to make funds available for the European Institute of Technology is, for us, worth only passing mention, due to the size, well, actually the smallness, of the amount initially required: EUR 2.9 million from 2008 to 2013.
Europe needs Galileo.
We want funding for Galileo to be Community funding and we want the appropriations to be guaranteed without having a negative impact on other priorities.
I would also like to thank our rapporteur for having kept in the list of pilot projects a few we were particularly committed to, in particular the rapid alert mechanism for child abductions or disappearances.
I believe that the regional and local media can have a much greater impact than certain centralised, more bureaucratic initiatives.
I consider it a disguised subsidy for the re-election of a number of our fellow Members and I will be voting against this provision. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I have taken the floor in the debate on the budget for 2008 in order to raise the following issues.
Firstly, although at nearly EUR 129 billion, the expenditure in this budget is the highest in the history of the Union, the ratio of this expenditure to the gross national income of the 27 Member States is the lowest ever, and, following adjustments by the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets, is barely 0.99% of the gross national income in commitment appropriations, which I would like to emphasise.
Thirdly, we must support the decisions of the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets that significantly increase the funding for the Galileo Programme, the European Institute of Technology and certain external activities of the European Union.
More than EUR 20 billion will be allocated to the new Member States specifically in 2008.
We know it is always very difficult to decide the budget for our institution.
I have only one real regret: there is something very special about the 2008 budget.
However, it was 2008 or never, because in 2009 we will be paying for the Member's Statute, as you know, and we will no longer be able to do it.
That is why we will vote for this report, Mr President. (PT) In the two minutes I have to speak I would like once again to point out that budgetary history is repeating itself.
Everything seems normal, were it not that all these proposals are below the 2008 budget in the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013.
As happened in the previous financial framework for 2000-2006, the budget ceiling provided for in the current Financial Perspective is not being adhered to, since the Community budget in 2007 was EUR 1.6 billion less in commitment appropriations and more than EUR 8 billion less in payment appropriations, without taking account of actual implementation.
It is clear that the amounts entered in the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013 are already insufficient in themselves, in our opinion, to promote real economic and social cohesion in an enlarged European Union of 27 countries.
Basically, all these proposals for the 2008 Community budget run counter to the requirements of the rich countries which impose a ceiling on the budget of about 1% of Community GNI, thereby reducing its share of this budget and minimising its redistributive role.
However, even Parliament's proposal represents a cut of more than EUR 5 billion in payment appropriations, in relation to what was agreed for 2008 in the multiannual financial framework.
Mr Virrankoski reels off these litanies like Mr Elles did in 2006, and like our fellow Member Mr Garriga Polledo did in 2005.
First of all, the litany of cutting off appropriations: in the draft budget, the Council of Ministers cuts off the appropriations in the preliminary draft budget.
The multiannual financial framework is already very short of the necessary appropriations and the budget even more so.
The liturgy is primarily in the budgetary nomenclature and the ideology supporting that nomenclature.
Payment appropriations as a share of EU GNI have fallen regularly for several years to around 1%.
Similar trends can be seen not only with regard to the volume of budget resources but also payment appropriations in relation to the payments ceiling of the multiannual financial framework.
In particular the proposed EUR 10 billion in unallocated payment appropriations appears to be a substantial deviation from the aims of the long-term financial framework.
I, too, am astonished that the Council is proposing over EUR 1 billion of cuts to payments for the programmes aimed at improving European competitiveness and cohesion.
If you add the translators and housekeepers to that, it then becomes the area with the greatest growth in staff numbers, because that adds a further 5 700 people.
The communication from the Commission in July on building needs does not take into account the results of the staff screening, although the same Commissioner is responsible for both.
The amounts placed in reserve by Parliament compel the Commission to link these two documents.
If we want to make the institutions more efficient, we need to improve the cooperation between them.
When allocating the European Parliament's budget, the most important thing for us is to concentrate, both now and in the future, on our main role and priority: improving the legislative process.
We are therefore calling for the creation of a knowledge management system that will enable the Members to work in an effective manner, using all documents.
The CAP, as it is called, has undergone numerous reforms in the last 15 years: the Mac Sharry reforms, Agenda 2000, and the decoupling of payments from production.
I should like to clarify one point: the governments of the Member States might not agree to any changes to the payments to be made under the CAP to farmers in Europe as a whole between 2007 and 2013.
Indeed, in my country, Ireland, firm financial arrangements have been laid down for farmers under the agricultural policy to be pursued between 2007 and 2013.
However, we must highlight the fact that both the Council and the Commission should ensure that we do not end up in a situation in which we are throwing money into a bottomless pit.
However, this is impossible because Israel is stifling Palestinian society and its economy, and not just in Gaza.
It is not only our delegation that is saying this; the message from the World Bank and from our own ECHO was equally clear.
Its budgetary policy seems to have three aims: business competitiveness, anti-terrorism and intervention in third countries.
The priorities for 2008 have been named again and again, and the funding of the Galileo Programme has again and again been specified as a problem.
We should also examine the impact and added value of the reports produced by the Economic and Social Council and the Committee of the Regions, particularly in the light of reports that are too technical or reports that have already been produced by the Commission or by Parliament.
The countries to the south have received three times as much money in per capita terms as those to the east, and this is unacceptable.
As yet there has been no ex ante agreement or policy dialogue, and until this happens, I agree with placing EUR 40 million in reserve for the CFSP.
Today we have an opportunity to make up for lost time and send some EUR 3 million to get the institution up and running.
I am glad that the Committee on Budgets approved the two pilot projects connected with the protection of the Baltic Sea.
Secondly, I would like to thank both the rapporteurs and the Commissioner, in this regard, for having, in my own budget for the year 2007, implemented those pilot projects and preparatory projects which were included.
With regard to category 1a, competitiveness for growth and employment, it should be pointed out that this is the first time that the figures on these policies represent the majority of the preliminary draft budget.
However, the Council's figures cut down these categories relating to the Lisbon Strategy, which should be at the core of the Union's policies.
I would like to mention the financing of Galileo and the European Institute of Technology, which are priority projects for our competitiveness and credibility.
Another point relates to the Frontex Agency, which plays an essential role, both from a humanitarian point of view and from a political point of view.
The European Council in June reiterated the need to strengthen Frontex in order to improve the Union's capacity to manage its external borders.
Proof of this is the proposed increase of EUR 30 million in commitment appropriations for the Agency's operational costs, which is an increase of 127% on the preliminary draft budget.
The allocation to category 4 is clearly insufficient for achieving our objectives and fulfilling our promises as a global player and, in particular, as has already been said here, in the operations in Kosovo and Palestine.
The rapporteur Mr Itälä has also done a very good job.
It is important that the appropriations for regional development remain at an adequate level.
At the same time, we have to ensure that regional policy practices and administration are simplified and clarified both in the Union and in the Member States, so that all the appropriations set aside for regional development can be spent more effectively and wisely in the Member States to reduce regional differences and to implement the Lisbon Strategy.
Because the Commission and the Member States have been dawdling, projects have been slow to begin and the first year of the programming period will be a problematic gap year.
With this budget, Parliament will double the Frontex Agency's budget to almost EUR 70 million.
The increase of EUR 30 million has been allocated to Frontex's operational budget in order to increase its missions in those areas that are worst hit by the influx of migrants.
At the same time, Mr President, we have put 30% of Frontex's administrative budget in reserve because we want the Agency to be more effective in its work.
Secondly, we want detailed information on Frontex's work programme for the coming year, and because Commissioner Frattini, Vice-President of the European Commission, himself announced that from next year Frontex's mission in the Mediterranean would become permanent, we now expect the Agency to be allocated far more than the EUR 10 million that it originally projected up to now for missions on the maritime borders.
Are we really not able to cope with new needs such as Galileo, the European Institute of Technology, the EIT, the EU's work in Kosovo and Palestine, and at the same time make budget cuts?
In order to avoid, for example, Galileo entailing cuts to other research programmes, we are requesting what we call minor revision.
As regards Palestine and the costs of the EU's work in Kosovo we want to use the 'flexibility instrument'.
The proposal concerns, first of all, the Balkans, but in the long term it should also be possible to use the experience gained from that in other areas where destroyed museums, and razed churches and mosques, can constitute a cause of conflict which the EU can help to remove.
It is good to realise what a state the Baltic is in and these two pilot projects are a good start.
The way in which money is spent and the Union's values must always go hand in hand. (RO) At the beginning of this year, we planned to negotiate together with the Council a pragmatic and efficient budget of results, which would achieve the policies now necessary in the European Union.
The budget we have proposed operates a 9% increase in finances for lifelong learning programmes, reaching a total amount of 900,000,000 euros.
The additional funds we have provided to the European Union's Selection Office should be spent efficiently for the employment of permanent personnel for the new Member States as soon as possible. (BG) It is a challenge for a representative of Bulgaria, one of the newest EU Member States, to take part in the adoption of the 2008 budget as a full member.
This has become possible thanks to the enlargement policy pursued by the European Union and supported also through its budgetary policy.
The draft 2008 budget, in its Sustainable Growth part, makes it possible even for the newest EU Member States to achieve the goals facing them in connection with their membership.
I wish to express my support also for the strategic increase of payments to the Structural Funds, the Social and Cohesion Funds, because this will enable them to expand the operational programmes and their capabilities.
The draft 2008 budget pays attention also to the new regions that have joined the EU.
The European Union with its policy and financing should guarantee both the environmental security and the stability and security of energy supplies to Europe..
The Black Sea Monitoring and the Framework Programme for the Black Sea Development is a pilot project which I am confident that the European Parliament will support; it is a right step towards good development of the Black Sea region and towards integration of the citizens of the Black Sea region into the EU membership policy. (LT) I would like to speak about the impact of the EU budget on the wellbeing of the ordinary citizens of Europe, some of whom are following our debates today.
However, it should be restructured in order to be more efficient and should encourage scientific research and innovation.
The 27-strong newly enlarged European Union is capable of making changes on a world scale.
Thus, logically, the commitments within the framework of the Structural Funds for 2008 increase by 0.9%, and payments by 3.2%, while monies for the Cohesion Fund increase by 14.4% for commitments and 36% for payments.
Not least, we considered it important to make special mention of the JEREMIE and JESSICA initiatives, to mention but two of the many key points in regional policy.
We also support the Commission in facing the future demographic challenges in Europe, particularly that in some regions and even in entire Member States, population ageing has become a major problem due to declining birth rates.
The 2008 budget contains some new elements that further demonstrate this.
At the initiative of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, more financial assistance is to be provided to Palestine and Kosovo.
There are other issues, too, where Europe must show solidarity.
Europe must invest in new technology, and Galileo has shown that there is room for another budget.
It is one of the few opportunities we have to send a very clear, collective message about what kind of EU we in Parliament want to see.
Generally, I think that it is good that an increasing number of my fellow Members here in the Chamber seem to see the importance of holding back EU funds, but there is still much to be done.
I think that it is important for us to set the right priorities in the budget, but the work on monitoring the money and its use is as important as budgeting for the right purposes.
If we are doing it today, I think that unfortunately in many areas we are seeing that some of our money almost does more harm than good.
Personally, I would hope that the 2008 EU budget would signal more clearly an EU that prioritises, an EU that focuses on its core task - to create free movement of goods, services, persons and capital.
But unfortunately this year's draft budget leaves much to be desired in this respect.
Altogether, these budget headings amount to more than EUR 1 858 436 000.
The European Parliament emphasises in paragraph 24 of its resolution the need for the Commission to approve as quickly as possible the national operational plans of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and of the Structural Funds.
However, I would like to add at this point that a Bureau and an administration must be willing to face questions and criticism from the Committee on Budgets, as that is part of our task.
If the Commission now wishes to remain credible, it can no longer claim late implementation or other difficulties for 2008 to justify being in arrears with payments or commitments in the implementation of the 2008 budget.
Today we can say that, with the agreement between the institutions on the agencies - starting with the German Presidency and concluded by the Portuguese Presidency - and thanks to the exceptional work done by our permanent rapporteur Jutta Haug, the development of the agencies has been firmly re-established so that, in future, no agencies will be set up without adequate cost-benefit analyses and without clarifying whether they add any value.
At this point, Commissioner, I must also say that this year, we dealt very circumspectly with the Commission's administration budget, but that does not have to be the case every year.
Mr President, we have taken a very clear position on Galileo.
In my second point I would like to speak about the financing of the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
Without Parliament, the CFSP would already be bankrupt, for we would have to front up with approximately EUR 90 million, according to the Decision of the Heads of State or Government in December 2005.
When I now hear that we may have to go well beyond what the Council and the Commission put forward to us, with Palestine and Kosovo to be added as well, then we are prepared to find a way through.
Therefore my urgent recommendation: the Council needs to get a sufficient mandate so that we can put both Galileo and the Foreign and Security Policy on a firm footing - hopefully not only for 2008.
If this is not achieved, then we are all going to have to have further sittings during the 2008 budget.
The door is open for all negotiations, but we expect a clear signal from the Council that it is taking action on these two key questions.
The vote will take place on Thursday 25 October 2007.
Furthermore I regret the proposed reduction to CFSP funding, especially in Kosovo.
