Guinea (debate) The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Guinea.
The leaders Sekou Touré and Kwame Nkrumah inspired many Africans in their battle for a better future, in which colonialism and poverty were set to be replaced by equality and development.
In Guinea, Conté has wielded dictatorial power since 1984.
President Conté, who has been in power since 1984, is ill, and is clinging to life as he is clinging to power.
From 1958 until 1984 the country was governed by a dictator, Ahmed Sékou Touré, who was supported by the Soviet Union.
The heavy-handed approach to political opponents and the events in February which led to the killing of 23 demonstrators is proof of that.
Guinea represents a country used and sometimes abused by Europe in the past and is now struggling to survive in extreme poverty and political instability.
author. - (FR) Mr President, in Guinea, since 17 January, an old senile dictator has been massacring his people with complete impunity in order to protect his regime, his corrupt friends and his waning power.
President Conté's only response to the January strikes was to have the crowd fired on, to imprison the trade unionists, then, having pretended to negotiate on 27 January, to go back on his commitment to appoint a consensus prime minister and to declare a state of emergency.
We call on the Commission to implement the provisions of Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement, applicable in the event of violation of human rights and democratic principles.
That is what is currently being done in Mauritania, involving our fellow Member, Mrs Isler Béguin, to whom I pay tribute in this House, and it was what was done in the Democratic Republic of Congo, with results that have been extremely effective and significant.
This was the reason for the strikes and demonstrations that took place in 2005 and also at the start of this year, protesting against the corrupt rule of Lasana Conté who has been in power for 23 years.
In a press release of 22 January, the European Commission condemned the violent interventions by the security forces and called for restraint and civic responsibility during these demonstrations.
The German Presidency, on behalf of the Union, issued a declaration on 9 February regretting the loss of life during the demonstrations and asking the Government of Guinea for an explanation of the circumstances of those deaths and of the judicial steps being taken against those responsible.
The Commission's delegation in Conakry and Member States' embassies have repeatedly stressed to the Government of Guinea the need to carry out a full inquiry into the events.
This was also stressed by Commissioner Michel to Foreign Minister Condé.
The ninth European Development Fund cooperation strategy with Guinea, signed on 21 December 2006, includes governance as a focal factor, as a priority.
A reinforced political dialogue with the country is ongoing as a follow-up to the Article 96 (Cotonou Agreement) consultations, which ended in April 2005.
The Commission has stressed to the Guinean authorities that the new situation would be taken into account in this context.
