European Council meeting of 21-22 June 2007 Activity report of the German Presidency (report and statements followed by debate) Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the debate on the results of the European Council of 21/22 June.
I would, however, like to express our thanks for your good will, your patience, but most of all your decisiveness concerning Europe, without which the outcome of the Brussels summit would not have been possible.
My sincere thanks, Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel. (Applause) We come now to the debate on the European Council report and the Commission's statement regarding the European Council meeting of 21/22 June 2007 as well as the Council statement on the six months of the German Presidency.
I would, however, like to express our thanks for your good will, your patience, but most of all your decisiveness concerning Europe, without which the outcome of the Brussels summit would not have been possible.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days after a memorable European Council, I would at this point first like to bring back into memory our celebration ceremony for the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome in Berlin in March.
On that occasion we reminded ourselves that 50 years of the Treaty of Rome, 50 years of peace and freedom, democracy and the rule of law, are after all no more than the blink of an eye in terms of history.
On that occasion we reminded ourselves that 50 years of the Treaty of Rome, 50 years of peace and freedom, democracy and the rule of law, are after all no more than the blink of an eye in terms of history.
I am therefore very grateful that we were able to achieve exactly this with the outcome of the last European Council.
You have always defended the substance of the Constitutional Treaty and now the Reform Treaty can come into force in time for the European elections in 2009.
At the same time, the Reform Treaty achieves significant advances in the European Union's capacity to act.
The Charter will strengthen the rights of citizens in relation to the institutions.
Only if we act jointly and purposefully can we preserve the great, the unique idea that has shaped the concept of European integration for over 50 years: peace, freedom and legal certainty for the citizens of Europe.
This would not have been possible without the Spring European Council and the support of the European Parliament.
This is a great example of defending European interests. (Applause) It is only right, therefore, that climate protection will now be included among the goals of the European Union in the new draft treaty.
The Reform Treaty is necessary so that Europe can hold its course.
My wish is that in 50 years' time, in 2057, the citizens of Europe will say: back in 2007, after strength-sapping, nerve-racking discussions, the European Union at last set the right course; back then, in 2007, the European Union set off on the right path to a prosperous future.
President of the Commission. (DE) Allow me to congratulate Chancellor Angela Merkel on what she has achieved.
We have done this, for example through our package of measures on energy and climate change; through our focus on innovation; through our drive against red tape; through legislation which delivers practical benefits for consumers, such as the legislation we proposed on roaming, which was signed before us here today.
I want to thank this House for its support for those initiatives.
That was a great moment to reaffirm our interests and our values in the 21st century.
I believe that the discussion on the Berlin Declaration was an important time to gather the necessary support which made it possible to achieve good results at the recent European Council.
The recent Eurobarometer is encouraging: support for European Union membership and the perceived benefits of membership have improved considerably over the last two to three years.
In fact they are the best results in terms of support for the European Union since 1994.
Let me be very frank about the results of the Council.
Let us not forget that before this Council we started from a division between 18 Member States that had rectified the Constitutional Treaty and 9 Member States that had not ratified it, and 2 of them explicitly refused the Constitutional Treaty after a referendum.
Now all 27 Member States are united around a common mandate for a reform Treaty.
The Treaty will also fully integrate these areas into Community method of decision-making.
Energy security and climate change are now core priorities for the Union.
Our prosperity, our freedom and our security depend on the capacity to compete at a global level, the capacity to promote our interests and our values.
But the reform Treaty also addressed other issues, namely in terms of accountability and democratic legitimacy.
Under the new Treaty, the vast majority of European laws will be adopted jointly by the European Parliament and by the Council in full respect of the Commission's right of initiative.
The new Treaty will amend the protocol on subsidiarity and proportionality.
First, any new procedure on subsidiarity would have to respect the Community method and the Commission's right of initiative.
Third, and in my view this is one of the most important points, the reform Treaty will give legal force to the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The Charter is for European citizens and the rights of the citizens against any power that could limit those rights.
The Charter will be a safeguard, both for European citizens and for national institutions, and will be a central part of the system of checks and balances in our Union of law, because that is what makes us different from many other projects: we are a Union based on law.
Europe will never be able to defend its commitment to an open economy and to open societies. (Applause) To those who accept a strong political Europe, but are not as enthusiastic about economic integration, I say that they will only get that strong political Europe if they support the single market and economic integration. (Applause) We cannot defend the European project by attacking the single market and trying to fragment what has been one of the greatest achievements of our integration in Europe.
Member States must then ratify the Treaty, and meanwhile, we must explain to the European public why this Treaty will be a necessary and positive step forward.
I certainly hope that the European Parliament and the Commission can continue to work closely together on spreading the message that this reform is indispensable for meeting the challenges of the 21st century and delivering better results to European citizens.
I should like to pay special tribute in this House to the Chancellor, the President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Merkel, and to her government.
The package on energy and climate change was the first major positive signal.
You set the tone by convincing the EU Heads of State or Government to opt for ambitious objectives concerning renewable energy sources and CO2 by 2020 and to combat climate change.
Of course, much still remains to be done in this area.
The German Presidency has also seen success in our strategic relations with the United States, whether it be in terms of treating the country as a priority partner, of speeding up the implementation of a transatlantic market, or of formalising the 'open skies' agreement.
I should like very warmly to thank the Minister of the Interior, Mr Schäuble, who cooperated very effectively with our Parliament on all of these matters.
Let us also pay tribute to the progress made in other areas, which are perhaps less spectacular but more tangible for our fellow citizens.
Obvious progress has been made on all of these issues over the last six months, and that is no mean feat.
We are extremely grateful to you for it. (Applause) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the German Presidency has been a success, the German Presidency has set new standards.
The progress made at the weekend was not negligible; it was significant.
I should like to explain why it bodes well that you stood firm in these negotiations.
We talk about Europe being in crisis, but last weekend has made it even more plain that it is not the European institutions that are in crisis; it is above all the governments of the European Union's Member States that are in crisis. (Applause) Madam Chancellor, I am not talking about all governments, just some of them.
The Polish Government - not the Polish people, who, contrary to their government, are pro-European - should remember that in its history Poland had the liberum veto.
The liberum veto was the downfall of the Polish Commonwealth, amongst other things.
We will not have the European Union inherit this liberum veto, because we do not want it to be our undoing, and we will not allow the European Union to be led down a road that it must not go down.
That is precisely what you put a stop to at the weekend, and we thank you for it. (Loud and sustained applause) I should now like to say a few words on a disturbing moment in these negotiations.
That is our duty; that is what we are working towards together, whether Socialists, Christian Democrats, Liberals or Greens.
Finally, thank you also to Wilhelm Schönfelder, who is sitting next to you and who has done a magnificent job representing the Federal Republic of Germany for all of these years. (Applause) Thank you, Mr Schulz.
Your propensity to play the fairy godmother means, I am afraid, that the naysayers - die Verfassungsfeinde heissen sie immer noch in Bayern - were rewarded in proportion to their negativity, while the friends of the Constitution - the silent majority - received precious little for supporting the Constitution signed by all Member States in Rome. (Applause) And so the French and the Dutch struck again with a side-swipe at fair and open markets.
The Portuguese Presidency must harness this momentum to ensure future developments are driven not by events beyond our continent, but, in the best tradition of the European Union, by idealism within. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the almost lunatic position of the social-democratic President against the democratically elected Polish Government threatens to somewhat overshadow this joyful occasion, a day on which the goodwill of all concerned has brought us to an agreement, I would above all like to thank Chancellor Merkel, to whom we are all sincerely grateful, for her efforts.
I am sorry, Hans-Gert, it is only me! (Laughter) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the result is okay; it is even very good.
The script is fine, but the soundtrack was awful.
I want to stress one point: on the one hand our citizens are reassured that Europe can act and make decisions, but the citizens of Europe have also been excluded from the process and in the longer term this will prove untenable.
Surely it is absurd to say that we have a Charter of Fundamental Rights with common values that applies in some places and does not apply in others.
I am not only talking about the twins, because Tony Blair was the one who took an axe to our project.
We cannot tolerate this and that is why we Greens will be holding a campaign called: We want our rights back! (Loud applause) on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mrs Merkel, Mr Barroso, my group will have the opportunity to return in detail to the various important dimensions of the future treaty that you mentioned.
It follows, then, that, despite the impact made by the European Council, there will be nothing new under the sun in this regard.
The losers are the 21 small and medium-sized countries.
Poland is now offering to reduce its share from 27 to 6, allowing you to have 9 votes instead of 29.
Shame on those 21 governments that criticised Poland for arguing their interests, plus the general interest, in an understandable system.
The Penrose system is much easier and fairer.
It could be further simplified by giving Germany six votes, France, the UK and Italy five, Poland four, then we would only have 81 votes together, and most of us could remember all the figures in our heads.
A more just system would be to give all Member States one vote each, and require the support of 75% of the Member States in the Council plus a simple majority in the European Parliament.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Mr President, Mrs Merkel, you will have to excuse me for the fact that I too have chosen to opt out of the jubilant mood that prevails in this House following the agreement that was reached at the European Summit.
The reform treaty does not create more transparency.
The debate is closed.
