In addition, last year, in January 2007, the Commission of the African Union appealed to Africa at the African Union summit to take the initiative to build large science and technology capacities with a view to training large numbers of scientists, engineers and technicians.
The year 2008 was then declared the Year of Science in Africa.
The European Commission recognises the importance of this issue and places an increasing degree of emphasis on science and technology as an important part of development cooperation negotiations.
African scientists can participate in the Commission's general research program or the Marie Curie Actions, which provide grants to scientists from third countries, including developing countries.
As the Commissioner said, the summit that took place in Lisbon, the second EU-Africa summit - we should recall that the first was in 2000 in Cairo - once again highlighted the importance of this dimension, this area of science and technology in the future development of Africa.
In 2010 there is going to be an evaluation of the implementation of the decisions that were made in these agreements, in this summit in Lisbon between Africa and the European Union.
Scientific cooperation for development should therefore be a priority in our overall cooperation strategy with African countries.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, this motion for a resolution on supporting scientific cooperation with Africa is very timely, because it comes hot on the heels of a series of statements on science in Africa over the last 12 months - by the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa in January 2007, in the G8 Summit Declaration about strengthening research and development cooperation and in the new chapter on ICT and science and technology in the EU-Africa Strategy.
With the Science with Africa conference in Addis Ababa coming up in March, this is indeed the moment for the European Parliament to register its support for a new and intensified approach to EU-Africa scientific cooperation.
Last Friday, I was at the New and Renewable Energy Centre in Blyth in Northumberland, where innovative research is going on to reduce the cost of solar electricity by focusing the sun's rays on very small silicon cells.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Good evening.
Sweden therefore emits 60 times more, and the EU 100 times more, than Ethiopia, to take just one specific example.
Over the past 20 years the EU has gathered considerable experience regarding the organisation and management of collaborative S&amp;T programmes.
The Millennium Development Goals look increasingly challenging in this year of science with Africa. (SL) Africa has more than 13% of the total world population, but only 1% of the world's scientists.
So I think we should collaborate at all levels in science, but we should look particularly at the area of agriculture and natural resources.
