Mr President, I should like to draw your attention to the continuing deterioration of the situation in Zimbabwe.
I urge you to ensure that the Council and the Commission take a uniformly tough line on Zimbabwe before it is too late.
Presidential elections will be held there on 9 March and time is running out.
I would therefore like you to refer to the Bureau the question of whether the electronic voting system can be improved in order to really function as a secret ballot and protect Members from those pressures from which they ought to be protected.
I, as the person responsible - for the moment, since the allocation of posts in the Bureau has still not been decided and I still have my former responsibilities in relation to buildings -, received a proposal yesterday afternoon which related to this.
In this Parliament yesterday the British Socialists ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr Sumberg, please, this is not a point of order.
He was in Strasbourg yesterday, and he is still in Strasbourg at the moment, but he will not be able to take part in these debates.
The Commission will be represented here by the top officials responsible but not by the Commissioner, who will not be able to participate.
Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, chairman of the Committee on Fisheries, has the floor.
Mr Meijer, the question of procedure which you raise is certainly feasible.
For obvious reasons: the Committee on Fisheries, by accepting the majority of the amendments to my report, and myself, by reaching a compromise on certain points with some of the Members presenting amendments, have made significant modifications to the initial text.
In any event, I believe that the report contains a sufficient number of positive elements in comparison with the current CFP for me, as rapporteur, to request that this House vote in favour of it.
In fact, as the report indicates, the current CFP entails a derogation from the principle of equal access and, in the absence of a Council decision, this derogation will end on 31 December 2002.
The CFP is obliged to respect the fundamental principles contained in the Treaty, including, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of equal treatment.
Relative stability requires a new analysis, as the report states, of the communities which are highly dependent on fishing, which considers the evolution in the Community over the last 25 years.
The reduction of the fleet is a socio-economic sacrifice which, in order to be understood and accepted by the fisheries sector, must be carried out in a balanced fashion in all Member States and also receive sufficient Community financial support.
With regard to international relations, the Community must deal with them decisively, relating them to the European Union' s foreign policy.
From the point of view of fisheries, the Union' s international relations must be seen from a primarily commercial point of view, with a view to achieving fishing opportunities for our fleet.
The fisheries agreements constitute and will continue to constitute an essential element of the new CFP.
As for the social aspects, they were completely absent from the Green Paper.
We ask the Commission to fully incorporate these economic and social measures, which are necessary in order to ensure the economic and social cohesion of the regions dependent on fishing.
The fisheries sector is characterised by tough working conditions and a lack of collective agreements, which makes it necessary to increase social dialogue.
To end, within the time allotted to me by my group, I would like to express my regret at the elements that have been lost during these long months of parliamentary negotiation, in particular two points: a Community fleet which can operate under a single flag and a single body of Community inspectors.
In terms of fisheries we are decades behind in relation to the European project, but just as we now have euros in our pockets and our skies are watched over by Eurocontrol, sooner or later the European flag will fly on our fishing vessels.
Furthermore, the EU' s market is so vast that over half the fish consumed is either caught by the EU' s fleet outside Community waters or else imported, much of it from developing countries.
One can therefore understand that the common fisheries policy can have quite a considerable impact on developing countries.
We also believe that the fisheries agreements, which are one of the crucial elements of the common fisheries policy, must not only be based on this first principle, but also upon reliable scientific assessments of the status of fish stocks and on the impact of fishing on target species, in particular.
As the main rapporteur said, scientific assessments are clearly necessary.
If we do not have them, which is, unfortunately, often the case in developing countries, we should adopt the precautionary principle so as to avoid the over-exploitation of resources.
do not improve the situation and that the proposal made in the Green Paper does not go any way towards improving it.
We in the Committee on the Environment believe that we must take action on sources of pollution, of which there are many - industrial pollution, huge pressure from tourism, which we in our country understand very well - action on special ecosystems such as those which we have in our country, like the estuaries, action on oil refineries and other plants which act in opposition to what we want to see.
We must increase consumer confidence by acting not only on traditional fishing, but also on aquaculture.
There must also be information and increased awareness, as well as the participation of the citizens and the sectors involved so that the measures to be adopted in those sectors may be successful, as well as the participation of local and regional authorities.
This will be a voyage over a rough sea for, as I have said, there are massive challenges ahead.
This equation may be simple, but it is true.
After all, we all - here in Parliament and out there on the coastline - want a viable fisheries sector, and one that is viable not only for today and possibly tomorrow, but for the decades yet to come.
These are expensive and are costing more and more; they will probably be too expensive as soon as tomorrow.
Mr President, the review of the common fisheries policy gives us a chance to guide the future of fisheries in the European Union over the next ten years and we have to get this right.
Instead we have a situation where our fish stocks have been depleted and our seas polluted, while our technological capacity to fish has increased beyond recognition.
The cornerstone of the new CFP has to be environmental and economic sustainability.
We should increase industry involvement in fisheries management and conservation, allowing for an improvement of dialogue between fishermen and scientists.
We should retain the principle of relative stability, but also ensure greater effectiveness and consistency in the control and enforcement of EU requirements, while attempting to simplify the burden of control on fishermen.
Mr President, when it is normal practice to congratulate rapporteurs on their work, it is difficult to find appropriate words to use when something exceptional has been achieved.
Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5 look to the international level.
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 are designed to improve the monitoring both of the cost-effectiveness of fisheries agreements with third countries and of fishing activities conducted in the context thereof.
Finally, Amendment No 7 wishes merely to add recreational sea angling to the areas to which, along with deep-sea and coastal fishing and aquaculture, separate attention needs to be given.
We hope that these amendments will meet with the approval of the House.
More generally, we believe that the motion for a resolution has achieved a commendable balance between the demands of fishing as an economic activity and the need for conservation.
In endorsing a move to multiannual and multi-species quotas, it promotes an approach to fisheries management that is better for the industry and the environment alike.
I add, with a touch of pride, that this is an approach pioneered in my own constituency, with the involvement of organisations such as the Scottish Fisherman's Federation, The Shetland Oceans Alliance and the World Wildlife Fund.
The number of amendments at committee showed how many different and often conflicting views there can be where fisheries issues are concerned.
The final report demonstrates just how well we in this House can manage to reconcile our differences.
One of the biggest problems with the common fisheries policy over the past 20 years has been that several objectives have not been prioritised.
We have tabled an amendment which would set as a prime objective the need to ensure that fish stocks and other marine species remain abundant.
Mr President, I think this is the first time in seven and a half years in this House that I have had to say publicly that my speech is very personal and does not echo the views of my group.
Mrs Miguélez, after these 400 amendments, made a superhuman effort to present some new compromises.
I am going to advise my group not to vote against the final result.
The whole purpose of the Green Paper on the common fisheries policy published in March of last year was to stimulate debate on the future of the common fisheries policy.
The Commission called for thorough and urgent reform of the common fisheries policy.
The marine minister set up a special review group in order to present a coherent response to all concerned.
Proposals and recommendations in response to the Green Paper on fisheries policy were produced by the Irish national strategy review group on the common fisheries policy, which was set up by the marine minister and included stakeholders.
Greater involvement of fishermen and stakeholders in the management process is long overdue.
Genuine regionalisation of management and control will greatly benefit the sector.
My country has benefited greatly from membership of the European Union over the years.
If there is a depletion of stocks it is not Irish fishermen but some greedy neighbours in other Member States who are responsible for it.
We continue to stand by our current system of the collective management of quotas by Member States and the professional fisheries organisations.
Secondly, the new common fisheries policy must stop using the brutal, unfair, costly and inefficient system of compulsory reductions in fleet capacity.
Thirdly, the new common fisheries policy must establish a sustainable management system, integrating the skills, knowledge and expertise of professionals into the decision-making process.
We call upon the Commissioner to propose to us a new common fisheries policy, which is essentially forward-looking and no longer a pitiful stopgap measure, because we believe that fishing activities in all our maritime States lies at the heart of the development of coastal regions.
We would like to have a common fisheries policy that also believes in the future of the fishing industry.
I therefore voted against the report in committee, which delivered a result - as you will remember - of 12 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions, amongst them the rapporteur herself.
In my view, these two issues are: firstly, the distribution of fishing opportunities in Community waters between the Member States, maintaining relative stability, which is not a principle but a discriminatory mechanism by any reckoning; secondly, the complete refusal to test, even experimentally, new management systems which are producing wonderful results in the world and in the great fishing powers - such as Norway and Iceland - by means of transferable fishing rights, which we are flatly refusing to even to test.
First, we must ensure that the basic aim of the CFP is to develop the fisheries sector and guide fishing activities towards viable levels from both the economic and environmental point of view.
Secondly, we must ensure we have a more integrated policy at European level, a more harmonised CFP.
The Commission should submit imaginative proposals which help advance European integration.
We shall only be able to implement the single market in the fisheries sector if we have uniform joint management of resources for the benefit of a Community fleet.
The report paves the way for decentralisation and the Commission must set out a comprehensive form of zonal management, delivered through zonal management committees.
The report contains a series of sound declarations of intent but, because in reality they have never been put into effect, the current fisheries agreements are neither an effective contribution to stepping up the fight against poverty nor of economic benefit to the developing countries.
There are various issues which are as yet unresolved; these are the issues on which we and the Commission will have to work in the coming years, particularly over the next six months.
We all know which issues remain unresolved.
If we apply these three criteria, I believe it will be possible to find a viable solution to all the issues raised on which we are focusing, and that we will be able to produce a balanced proposal which combines a common policy with respect for the diversities and individual characteristics of each of our countries.
Two principles should then be respected: firstly, that of access to waters - to the 6-12 mile coastal band, I believe - this is already provided, and secondly, the principle of relative stability, which was also taken into consideration.
These two choices are fundamental and I hope that Parliament will ratify these.
Fishermen feel that, even when two identical mistakes are made, the penalties imposed are different.
I think that the Commission must pay particular care and attention to these three changes.
Mr President, it is my view that Parliament should reject the Green Paper.
In the Green Paper, the Commission in fact refuses to consider fisheries as a normal economic sector, crucial to the economy of various maritime countries, such as Galicia, which I represent, and as a sector which must carry out its activities within the norms laid down in the Treaties, respecting, above all, the principles of sustainable development.
The Commission is upholding the privileges enjoyed by certain States by means of the discriminatory principle of relative stability; it does not propose an appropriate policy for fisheries agreements with third countries and even considers ending, in the medium term, structural funds for fleet renewal.
Mr President, the report on the future of the CFP must make a major contribution to the shape of this policy after 2002.
I should therefore like to highlight six issues that I consider to be priorities.
The third issue concerns the need to strengthen the international fisheries agreements component, and the European Union must negotiate new opportunities for its ship-owners.
The end result is not ideal, but I hope that it will provide the basis for what is needed.
I think we all recognise the tremendous difficulty involved in coming forward with this report.
Fish are migratory: they do not stay in one place all the time, year after year.
I would suggest that it might result in even less financial support to the industry, and markets would not improve.
The Commission Green Paper on the Common Fisheries Policy paints a very gloomy picture and I regret that it contains no reference whatsoever to fishing in the territorial waters of extremely remote regions of the European Union.
These regions have fought for respect for their differences, as laid down in Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam, and so that their specific characteristics can, at last, be taken into account in each of the European Union' s policies and, more importantly, in the common fisheries policy.
The dimension of this sector in extremely remote regions, its characteristics and, above all, its impact on all fishing activities in Europe should, however, make it much easier than anticipated to justify the practical and specific measures for extremely remote regions, particularly in terms of resource and fleet quotas, of support for coastal fishing and aquaculture, as well as public limits on investment, upon which the growth of this activity in these regions depends.
An adequate level of investment would enable them to develop and to modernise their fleets, to ensure greater coherence in the measures proposed by the European Commission by reconciling, on the one hand, the objectives for providing financial support to the businesses involved in processing and selling fish products and, on the other, the need to ensure that these businesses receive a regular supply of high quality raw materials.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Stocks of cod and hake The next item is the report (A5-0458/2001) by Mr Hudghton, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament on rebuilding stocks of cod and hake in community and adjacent waters [COM(2001) 326 - C5-0466/2001 - 2001/2190(COS)].
I would suggest that the subject of this report also illustrates the need for reform of the common fisheries policy.
In other words, if we had a successful fisheries management system in the European Union, then perhaps we would not need emergency measures to safeguard declining stocks in this fashion.
These plans seek to restore stocks of cod and hake to sustainable levels.
But they also have socio-economic implications, not only for those who fish cod and hake, but also for fishermen whose livelihood depends on stocks associated with either of these fisheries.
This report emphasises, therefore, a number of key concerns: there should be no broad-brush approach; there must be accurate scientific advice, the impact of industrial fisheries must be recognised; there must be adequate funding; and accessible diversification programmes should be available.
The Commission itself admits that it has not relied solely on scientific advice and that there is a general lack of scientific advice for assessing long-term recovery plans.
The Commission does not, however, address the extent to which this impact could have proven disastrous, had it not been for the responsible action of Scottish fishermen, for example, who voluntarily tied up at their own cost.
Mr President, I wish to add my congratulations to the rapporteur on an excellent and timely report.
I should like to say that this report addresses many current concerns in the fisheries sector and certainly rebuilding the stocks of cod and hake is going to be a tremendous challenge.
But the truth is that it has to be achieved if we want to maintain stocks in our seas.
There is greater willingness among fishermen to cooperate with the authorities and the European Union to achieve the recovery of stocks.
I would say to the Commission that it is not myself, the rapporteur or any Members in this House with an interest in fisheries, but rather the fishermen who are out there working, trying to make a living and trying to survive in very difficult circumstances who need convincing of the need for this.
Mr President, we are debating a new Commission proposal which contains supplementary measures for the recovery of stocks of cod and hake, and which the Socialist Group supports with some reservations, stemming from the scepticism with which the people involved have received it and the lack of agreement amongst the experts.
The opinion of the Scientific Committee, for example, says that a more drawn-out recovery plan which involves less sacrifice for the fleet is a possibility.
I would like to pay particular attention to the issue of cod.
In Scotland the Labour-led coalition has committed over GBP 25 million to such a decommissioning scheme.
The issue of closed areas and possible real-time closures have also been considered and, in some cases, introduced in order to allow for the regeneration of stocks.
In conclusion, all stakeholders, the European institutions, Member State governments and the fishing industry must be involved if any of these measures are to be successful.
An effective stock recovery programme is essential for the future of cod fisheries in Scotland and the UK.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
The integration of environmental protection requirements into the common fisheries policy must happen in such a way that it has the sector' s support, without the costs being borne solely and exclusively by the fisheries sector, particularly since this means small fishing businesses, and in view, especially, of the fact that the sector is the victim of forms of pollution of the marine ecosystem caused by external factors such as marine transport and coastal industries.
Indeed, where the Commission speaks of the interaction between the fisheries sector and the environment, it does little more than list the harmful effects of fisheries on the environment, overlooking positive environmental measures which could benefit the fisheries sector such as improvement of coastal areas, creation of restocking and nursery zones, protected marine areas, increasing tourist fishing and investment in research.
Again, in the face of the very real problem of overfishing, in my humble opinion, the Executive is not drawing up alternative proposals to the drastic solution of terminating the fishing activity altogether, the result of which would be to drive the fishermen away from the sector without establishing adequate accompanying or support measures for them.
The present report discusses the integration of the environment into the common fisheries policy, and a part of the Green Paper also refers to the preservation of the environment in the marine sector.
Biological diversity must be preserved, as laid down in the sixth environmental action programme - which we discussed this week and which we are going to vote on at noon - preventing pollution of coastal areas.
Mr President, I live in a country in which we are surrounded by coastal areas that are extremely beautiful and rich, but which are constantly affected by the actions of industry and excessive pressure from tourism.
The forthcoming revision of the common fisheries policy will also ensure much more far-reaching implementation of the common decisions in all the Member States.
Considering the desperate need to incorporate the concept of environmental protection into fisheries, this report falls far short of what is required.
The debate is closed.
It augurs well.
However, there is hardly any other Parliament which would have voted that number of amendments to a report.
Mr President, I welcome what Mr Watson has just said and point out that you can make an early contribution to securing a reform of our procedures by placing my report on the agenda of the March part-session.
The European Parliament has been moved from Strasbourg to Rome.
Just think, if we had still had codecision and that rule now, in 2030, thirty years on, we would have had to produce another report on the new requirements on ozone in air.
Recommendation for second reading by Mrs Myller (A5-0456/2001) Madam President, we have adopted the Sixth Framework Programme on the Environment and I voted for the motion.
The Irish Government has one of the worst records in Europe when it comes to complying with existing objectives, thus making it more difficult for Ireland to achieve the new targets set for the next decade.
I overheard some pensioners talking to each other when they were on one of these very buses, and one said to the other: 'How are things?' 'Fine!' 'But how are you getting on with the euro which has just been introduced?' 'Extremely well, because I remembered' - they were two Italian pensioners - 'that, immediately before the last war, we had lira and cents, and so I went back in time.
It is therefore certainly justifiable for a number of EU Member States only to authorise buses up to 12 metres long.
If these countries are forced to authorise buses of 15 metres, they will need to install additional prohibition signs throughout the country.
Recommendation for second reading by Mr Van Dam (A5-0469/2001) Madam President, as you are aware, this report introduces a driver attestation for driving in the European Union.
Despite their contradictions, the two initial reports dealing with public procurement contracts, public services, the assessment of public works and public services that have not yet been totally liberalised, which must remain under the protection of the directive, substantially improve the European Commission' s proposal.
It should be remembered that this seeks to take advantage of the process of simplifying existing directives to take a further step towards the opening up of public markets and their liberalisation, in order to meet the objective, laid down in Lisbon, of creating an internal market for public markets.
We voted, therefore, in favour of all the positive proposals that seek to include in public tenders objectives other than the lowest price, and to instead select the best proposal in terms of criteria for the environment, for employment, protection for the disabled etc.
We also voted for the proposals on fighting or prevention corruption.
Nevertheless, since some of these proposals were rejected, in the end, we could only vote against the two reports.
I abstained during the final vote on the two reports by Mr Zappalà.
We cannot subscribe to the approach adopted by the rapporteur or to that of the Commission.
We cannot accept a situation where the lowest price is favoured in the award of public contracts and where social, territorial and environmental criteria are relegated to the background.
Needless to say, the amounts which were agreed as thresholds in the WTO Agreement remain applicable, but not for contracts which fall outside the scope of that agreement.
The major political obstacle standing in the way of the adoption of this report is the application threshold values of European standards, which are of absolutely crucial economic importance for public works companies, the environment, public finances and infrastructure quality.
There are two conflicting theories, therefore: Those in support of increased threshold values have pointed out that this would avoid administrative costs and cumbersome bureaucratic processes for contracts which will not, in any case, attract international competition.
At the same time, however, the local authorities must bear the extremely high costs of the tendering process.
The aim is to create a genuine single European market in this sector.
The majority of contracts would be granted in accordance with national or regional procedures.
However, I do hope that the next report on this subject will also stipulate that pensioners and elderly people - who have to use a lot of water and consume a lot of energy and often use public transport - should also receive water and the energy supply in their houses for heating and cooking free of charge, and that they should not have to pay for public transport services either, for pensioners and elderly people have certainly worked hard in their lives and they fully deserve and have the right to expect some thanks from society.
The second Zappalà report on awarding contracts in the water, energy and transport sectors pursues the same objectives as the first Zappalà report on awarding contracts.
On the pretext of simplifying and updating existing Community legislation, the rapporteur hopes to create a genuine, liberalised single European market in the water, energy and transport sectors.
The battle raging over threshold values, like that of taking into greater consideration social and environmental aspects, is, of course, important.
But we reject the underlying logic of the rapporteur and the Commission, namely that of liberalising these sectors, as it presents a risk for users and employees.
On the contrary, whereas some governments are contemplating a review of their policy of liberalising and privatising their public services, the approach of the rapporteur and the Commission seems archaic and dogmatic.
That is why we voted against the report.
Grosch report (A5-0430/2001) Madam President, this report approves a directive stipulating that both goods and passenger vehicle drivers must have passed a special test in addition to their driving test.
As I said just now, where they are still able to do so, a great many pensioners travel by bus or coach out of necessity or to go sightseeing.
The only reason we did not vote against is because the introduction of 'uniform driver certification' for professional drivers carrying goods or passengers working in Europe, whether nationals of the European Union or a third country, could help to improve road safety.
Whilst acknowledging the urgent nature of road safety, this report exonerates employers from their responsibilities in this area.
This makes it, in our view, a matter of urgency that all the Member States should put in place obligatory basic vocational training culminating in the award of a certificate of professional competence. 2.
We expect that improved quality of training will result in a significant improvement in safety in road traffic. 3.
This Directive, in conjunction with the Directives or guidelines on tachographs, the regulations on work time and the social security conditions applicable to drivers, represents another building block for the social protection of professional drivers. 4.
The transport sector plays a major role in the context of EU enlargement.
The more harmonised provisions have already been transposed into the acceding countries' legal systems, the fewer problems of adaptation there will be with regard to technical standardisation, social security standards, provisions on the protection of the environment and road safety regulations in the future. 5.
The number of hours of training now to be prescribed - a minimum 210 hours and a maximum of 630 hours - is lower than is already required in some Member States.
I voted for the motion, particularly because page 11 of the document, lines 11-15, reads: 'The fishing agreements between the European Community and some ACP countries limit local fishermen' s activities in territorial waters and endanger stocks for local people and their means of subsistence.' The rapporteur, Mr Rod, has reiterated what I have always stated in my explanations of vote.
Firstly, because through this agreement the EU is reaffirming its commitment to the ACP countries, and therefore its will to contribute to the sustainable economic and social development of those countries.
It is a step which many others must follow, particularly in relation to Parliament' s control of EDF funds.
This agreement, however, takes us in the right direction.
It is intended to last 20 years and to reinvigorate the cooperation policy between the European Union and the ACP countries: this is now urgently needed.
The new agreement, which is due to enter into force this year, goes beyond the strict framework of trade and public aid - which is certainly needed but is not sufficient - it adds a more political dimension by introducing 'good governance' .
It is therefore hoped that this new agreement will take a responsible approach and that the former colonial powers, which include many Member States, finally break free from their guilty practices and will resolutely commit to a new partnership with the ACP countries.
This makes it all the more disconcerting that only two of the Fifteen EU States have ratified this Agreement.
The EU and its Member States must pay closer attention to the situation in Cuba and take note of the facts in an unprejudiced way; 2.
Certain demands are being made of Cuba that are not being met in a number of EU States.
Cuba should not be excluded from the ACP process, but constructively involved in its further development through dialogue.
To better their common interests, it seeks to use their historic ties that our various countries have fostered over the course of many centuries.
That is why it is important to reiterate that, whatever commitments have been made by the European Union under the WTO, they do not override the legal commitments undertaken by the European States towards their developing partners.
The Rod report reiterates this in a very timely manner.
However, we cannot imagine an environmental policy that is totally detached from all economic and social considerations.
Alyssandrakis report (A5-0451/2001) . (EL) It is not often we see a rapporteur vote against his own report.
As has been mentioned several times, this report aims to help the markets and industry 'reap the benefits' of new developments in the European space policy.
I already explained during the vote on the Langenhagen report on 3 October 2001 that I consider this costly project to be a bit of an unnecessary luxury.
The Alyssandrakis report has the value of acknowledging and underlining the remarkable efficiency of the European Space Agency, an intergovernmental body and major world player in the area of space research and space applications.
Our main task is therefore to preserve at all costs the partnership dynamic that has been launched between a number of States, which are aware of the crucial importance of the space industry for Europe' s independence.
Therefore, Mr Fatuzzo, you who can see me in your dream, remember that, since this is a report by a woman, Mrs Miguélez Ramos, this is the right direction to take to achieve successful fisheries in the European Union.
We cannot forget that there are areas, such as the outermost regions, that are highly dependent, socially and economically, on fishing activities and for which, on the basis of Article 299 of the Treaty, the system of limiting access within 50 miles must be maintained.
Both the Commission and the rapporteur have declined to address a situation which is having an increasingly significant impact on overall catches, namely leisure fishing.
The proposed measures are therefore not the right ones.
Lavarra report (A5-0457/2001) Madam President, as usual, I would like to take the opportunity afforded by my final explanation of vote to say 'Bon apétit' to those Members - who, as you see, are many - who have had the patience to remain in the Chamber to hear why I voted for Mr Lavarra' s report on fisheries.
The purpose of this report too - and these are the last reports on fish, which is why I have such a desire to have a delicious plate of fried fish on the table before me - is to exploit the fishing activity to obtain the greatest quantity of fish possible, in other words to catch the greatest possible number of fish.
These fish will be so happy to be many and to end up frying in the pan to tickle the taste buds of the Members of the European Parliament, even if with some delay caused by Mr Fatuzzo.
I would like to draw to the House's attention the action of Levi Strauss, the jeans manufacturer, which is today closing two of its Scottish plants. 650 Scots, mostly women, face the prospect tonight of losing their jobs and their livelihoods.
The lack of information and consultation by this company is quite a disgrace, showing more clearly the importance of proper information and consultation legislation prior to such a decision being announced.
Mutual recognition of financial penalties The next item is the report (A5-0444/2001) by Mrs Cerdeira Morterero on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on the initiative of the United Kingdom, the French Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden for the adoption of the Council Framework Decision on the application of the principle of mutual recognition of financial penalties [11178/2001 - C5-0443/2001 - 2001/0825(CNS)].
The European Union and the existence of a European area of freedom, security and justice involve, in turn, the creation of an area without internal borders in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital must be guaranteed within the territory of the States of the Union, as laid down in Article 14 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The Tampere Summit called for the principle of mutual recognition to become the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in both civil and criminal matters in the European Union.
Trust between Member States in terms of their judicial decisions and their correct application is the least we must demand.
This is undoubtedly a clear demonstration of the need for initiatives of this type with a view to accelerating and making a genuine contributing to the construction of the European area of justice which we agreed on in Tampere.
This initiative represents a significant advance in terms of eliminating these obstacles.
The difficult problem of how to divide up the proceeds between the two States concerned is resolved in Article 10 by allotting compensation payments and orders to pay court costs to the Issuing State and all other monies to the Executing State.
I would like to stress that I personally consider EUR 40 to be a small and insufficient amount, but I have proposed this amount for the sake of coherence with the agreement implementing Schengen, which set that amount.
The European Union' s Charter of Fundamental Rights sums up, for the first time in the Union' s history, in a single text, all of the civil, political, economic and social rights of the European citizens, and those of all the people who live in the Union' s territory.
Finally, it is necessary that, in those cases in which the competent authority of the Executing State is not known, the contact points of the European judicial network should be used rather than designating additional central contact points.
Therefore, the majority of the amendments have been tabled with the sole objective of improving the original proposal and contributing to compliance with the Tampere mandate, as well as adding one more element to the construction of a genuine area of justice, freedom and security.
The problem my group has is that the implications of this initiative of a few Member States, and the subsequent report, are not restricted to administrative penalties.
In those cases, therefore, what is at issue is the recognition of decisions in the field of criminal law.
My group wholeheartedly supports these administrative penalties and the principle of criminal penalties, but not until we have formally established the basis for trust by means of the minimum standards.
This is why my group proposes restricting this decision to these administrative penalties.
They believe that harmonisation at European level would lead to more confidence in the criminal legislation of other Member States and in the application thereof.
In the main, the amendments of the Cerdeira Monterero report are practical improvements.
I particularly support the rapporteur' s proposal that use be made of the contact points of the European judicial network and no new contact points set up.
Madam President, we welcome this initiative as another small step along the road towards fulfilling the Tampere mandate to make the principle of mutual recognition the cornerstone of judicial cooperation.
It is right that within a developing area of freedom, security and justice Member States ought to begin laying the foundations for establishing trust in each other's legal systems.
We need an EU legislative initiative to facilitate efficient cross-border cooperation and improve upon previous international legal instruments, which are often cumbersome and bureaucratic.
It is right for the EU to base cooperation on the concept of executing the decision of the issuing State, rather than that of deciding whether or not to grant cooperation in response to a request.
The other international convention - the 1970 Convention - contains 13 grounds on which a request can be refused, so we can understand why the system does not work at the moment.
However, we have a core problem here: people who care about civil liberties - and here I include myself - are put on the spot about agreeing to measures of mutual recognition without having a comprehensive programme to raise the standard of observance of individual rights.
It is worth pointing out that this issue was addressed in the Commission communication on the mutual recognition of final decisions in criminal matters, which we issued and debated here in the European Parliament in July 2000.
The need for this specific instrument was identified in the programme of measures designed to apply the principle of the mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters adopted by the Council and the Commission in November 2000.
As she quite rightly stated, there is no international instrument currently in place in all of our Member States for the application of financial penalties in criminal matters.
There are only the two instruments to which the honourable Member referred, but one of them has never come into force and the other has only been ratified by five Member States.
It is also worth pointing out, however, that we are not, in this field, working with a blank piece of paper: we are working within a legal framework which exists and which is - if I may say so - consolidated.
All the Member States have signed up to and joined the European Convention on Human Rights, all the Member States have legal systems of criminal prosecution that are subject to the supervision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and all the Member States have jointly proclaimed, in political though not legal terms, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
These are legal and political instruments that enable us to establish a frame of reference within which we can implement the principle of mutual recognition of final decisions in criminal matters.
We understand the basis of the proposal on setting a minimum threshold of EUR 40 for the principle to be implemented because, in some cases, unless there is a minimum charge of EUR 40, the costs of transfer and implementation would not justify the execution of the judgment.
The vote will take place at 5 p.m.
Madam President, Europeans have been seafarers since the earliest decades of history.
The maritime sector has throughout the course of European history played a crucial role in the political, economic, social and scientific development of our nations.
The merchant shipping sector is, for example, of strategic importance to the economic well-being of the European Union.
Maritime training in the EU needs to be developed further.
A high-quality system of maritime education and training is vital to the future of EU seafaring.
I urge Member States and social partners to exploit fully all possibilities of funding, such as the European Social Fund, Socrates and Leonardo da Vinci programmes.
The industry, in discussion with MET institutes and the social partners, should intensify its efforts to develop career paths, training and job content that take account of opportunities available in the wider maritime sector, following time employed at sea.
There is a clear need to safeguard the employment of EU seafarers on board and on shore, to preserve the maritime know-how in the Community, to develop maritime skills and to improve the safety of maritime transport.
Madam President, despite being a woman of the South and not being a seafarer, which is a shame, because this sector still remains largely closed to women, I do not wish to miss this opportunity also to congratulate you on your new position.
It is true that all of these matters fall within the competence of Member States, but we have already seen that, in the field of safety, if there is no strategy there will be no effectiveness.
This is why, Madam President, we repeat that the Commission must regulate and harmonise not only training courses but also pay and living conditions on board and the safety of crewmembers, and it must also act together with other economic blocs that have unilaterally expanded the market, leaving it uncontrolled, or which have established protectionist practices, as the United States has done.
We feel that the Commission is genuinely able to ensure - and is on the way to doing so - that the Member States continue to supply high-quality seafarers, in order not only to do justice to our past but also to our future.
Experienced seafarers are also ideal for other temporary, onshore work off-season in areas such as recruitment, training, freight forwarding, insurance and arbitration.
All of the proposals are based on the principle that, whilst it remains relatively unattractive from the social and financial point of view in comparison with land-based work, a seafaring career will not be able to attract high-quality seafarers and, consequently, guarantee operational efficiency, safe seafaring and the proper maintenance of ships or achieve the reduction, which the maritime community needs to see, in the number of accidents and in marine pollution.
The report that Parliament is going to adopt today will make a major contribution to stimulating the political debate on this issue.
The vote will take place at 5 p.m.
Leonardo da Vinci programme (1995-1999) The next item is the report (A5-0449/2001) by Mrs Stauner on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the Commission's final report on the implementation of the first phase of the Community action programme Leonardo da Vinci (1995-1999) [COM(2000) 863 - 2001/2069(INI)].
I was looking forward to speaking on my report on the implementation of the first phase of the Community action programme Leonardo da Vinci, but I received this morning a piece of news which obliges me to go about this differently.
On behalf of the PPE group, to which I belong, I therefore ask that today's debate and vote be cancelled and that the report be referred back to the competent committee, so that I can gather appropriate information and present a report containing all documents and items of information that there actually are on the subject.
Nevertheless, I should like to stress that the Commission has informed the House a number of times that both our Directorate-General for Administration and OLAF are currently examining a lengthy report into several allegations by a Commission official of possible irregularities within the Commission in relation to a variety of issues.
As I have said, the examination of the report by OLAF and the DG for Administration is ongoing.
The reason why the Group of the European People's Party/European Democrats has addressed this question to the Commission is that we want, after the Villiers report, prior to the presentation of the third consultative document and before the Commission complete the draft Directive, to give a clear signal to the public and to the enterprises affected that we speak for the affected parties in the Directive's drafting process and that we want to be more involved in the discussion process, both as regards the monitoring of the Basle Committee and also the preparation of the Directive.
What is of the essence, though, is what form it should take in practice, as it is only through a conversion appropriate to our economic structure that the financial sector including an essential pillar of the economy and its enterprises, above all the small and medium-sized ones, can actually be strengthened.
The question takes up the cause of the medium-scale economic structures in Europe and is intended to give voice to the questions that small and medium-sized banks and enterprises want to ask.
The aim is, as mentioned, to modernise the existing capital requirements for banks and investment firms.
This will lead to significant benefits within the European financial services markets in terms of increased efficiency and enhanced competition, while at the same time improving financial stability through prudential requirements that are both more comprehensive and more sensitive to the risks faced by these institutions.
The European review is taking place in parallel with the review by the Basle Committee on banking supervision of capital requirements for internationally active banks.
My response to your questions should therefore be read in that light.
The significance of the IRB approach has already been identified in Parliament's resolution of 17 November 2000 on the evaluation of the own funds directive.
The IRB approach should be designed prudently but in such a way as not to unduly exclude smaller and less complex institutions.
The Commission has pursued the above from the beginning, both in preparing its proposal and in participating in the Basle process.
To accommodate the needs of smaller and less complex institutions, the second Commission consultative document of February 2001 diverged on specific issues from the Basle consultative document.
On the potential effect of the new regime on the cost of lending to SMEs, both the Commission and the Basle Committee have strongly emphasised the importance of ensuring that the capital adequacy regime leads to appropriate treatment of credit to SMEs.
I will say more about this in a moment.
Retail lending is likely to be defined in such a way that small business loans that are treated as retail loans by a bank and that meet the other relevant criteria will fall within the retail risks weight.
This is of particular importance in the context of lending to SMEs.
The likelihood is that the approach will be not to name specific types of physical collateral that will be acceptable, but to set eligibility criteria that seek to ensure a certain sustainable value of the collateral in the event of borrower default.
I now turn to the fifth question on implementation of the new Basle Accord, concerning the question of uniformity and flexibility and the date of implementation.
For reasons of competitive neutrality, the European Union legislative framework for banks and investment firms is based on the principle of equality of treatment between competing institutions, at least as regards certain business and market segments.
For reasons of international competitive equity, it is very important that European Union institutions move to the new framework within the same timescale as institutions of other jurisdictions, including, for example, the United States.
The importance of rapid implementation of the new framework was recognised in the resolution of this Parliament of November 2000 on the evaluation of the own funds Directive.
On the seventh question, regarding limit retail loans, the Commission believes that the borderline between corporate loans and retail loans should be such as to allow certain kinds of lending to SMEs to be treated as retail in nature.
The definition currently proposed in the IRB framework includes a use test, whereby such a loan can be treated as retail in nature if is treated in the institution's risk-management systems and assessments in the same manner as other retail loans and meets the other relevant criteria, including those in relation to value.
The Commission regards this approach as useful and effective.
Finally, on the eighth question - regarding coordination between the nine EU Member States that are members of the Basle Committee and the other European Union Member States - the European Union perspective is indeed strongly represented in the Basle Committee.
This has allowed the views of the European Union as a whole to be conveyed, as reflected in the recent development of the Basle proposals, in the review of the capital requirements applicable to lending to SMEs, and in the wider recognition of collateral.
The authorities responsible for the prudential supervision of investment firms have been invited to participate in discussions of the capital review.
A dedicated working structure has been established to assist in developing concrete proposals that should address EU concerns, in particular as regards the application of the capital framework to a wide range of institutions, including smaller banks and investment firms.
It is vital that this risk-sensitive framework should be potentially applicable to a wide range of credit institutions, both large and small.
I also welcome what you said about pooled data, which is essential to ensuring that smaller institutions can take advantage of a new risk-sensitive framework by pooling data with similar, smaller institutions.
All these issues are going to be vitally important in ensuring that the new framework is adaptable to the diversity of large and small credit institutions and investment firms in the European Union.
I am confident that if the Commission and Parliament do their work properly we can devise a solution and a new accord which are risk-sensitive, protect savers, encourage systemic stability and ensure that small businesses can continue to have access to loan finance.
I pay tribute to your valiant rendering, not only of the English language - in which you have no problem - but also of the specialised terminology of the financial markets, which probably caused you more throatache than the language itself.
There have to be ways of strengthening control of those risk-management models which banks will use in order to assume control.
Such models are very costly and hard to control.
New methods have to be invented for checking on these models so that they perform in a way that helps the banks perhaps to leverage more while at the same time keeping them in check.
Therefore our advice would be to temper a little the enthusiasm for surrendering control to the markets, while building up the official control side a bit more and applying it in a modern way using modern methods.
I would greatly welcome it if this working party linking Parliament and the Commission could start very soon, in order to get those within Parliament who are interested - and we three from the group of the European People's Party/European Democrats are very much so - involved in the process in good time and thereby avoid various problems with timescales.
Nine out of 13 members of the Basle Committee are members of the European Union.
We have the opportunity to convey the European Union's points of view in the debates and in the Basle Committee framework.
Those are two examples where our proposals did play a major role in the debates on the Basle Committee.
It will be necessary to establish not only the relationship between the minimum capital requirements of the institution and the risks that such an institution takes on board, but also to guarantee that there will be transparency in the criteria that are used by the supervisory bodies of the Member States.
That is why the financial services action plan is seeking a certain degree of convergence of the supervision in order to guarantee that flexibility in the application of the system will not detract from the necessary transparency and the outside control of the way each system acts.
Vote I voted for the motion, Mr President.
The report ascribes this state of affairs to secondary causes and avoids tackling the root cause of the problem.
