It is particularly timely, since I have just returned from a visit to Gaza, the West Bank and Israel.
It is a critical moment in the Middle East.
I hope that these elections will bring about two leaderships that are ready and able to inject new vigour into this peace process.
President Abbas has also made it clear that acceptance of the Oslo Accords and the roadmap forms the basis for participation in the future government.
The European Union is supporting the Palestinian elections with the biggest Election Observation Mission – 240 observers, including 50 of your colleagues.
We are working with all possible speed, but the security situation is not making our work any easier.
What I saw only strengthened my conviction on that, and I will continue to press this point in the Quartet – there will be a Quartet meeting on 30&#160;January in London, after the Afghanistan conference – and with Israel.
Like everyone involved, we face major challenges, but we are in it for the long haul.
Israel should take steps to implement the agreement brokered in November by the Quartet Special Envoy Jim Wolfensohn on improving movement and access – the port, the airport, the link between Gaza and the West Bank and movement within the West Bank.
Indeed, many Members present here today will be in Palestine next week.
The London bombers last July came from my constituency in Yorkshire.
But the key to stability is democracy.
The situation in the Middle East is constantly changing.
Regardless of the outcome of the elections, Hamas will play a key role in relation to the institutional representation of the Palestinian people.
I will refrain from doing or saying anything that might increase the support for, and influence of, Hamas and I will instead try to emphasise the fact that if a movement aspires to the highest echelons of political and institutional representation, then it must be willing to play the democratic game, starting with respect for international law and an end to violence.
The state of Israeli-Palestinian relations also has a bearing on the situation within Palestine.
That is another reason why Israel should stop the settlements in all the territories and refrain from acting in such a way as to jeopardise the chances of resolving the conflict, beginning with East Jerusalem, where a real annexation policy is being pursued.
These elections may be six months later than planned, but that is a drop in the ocean for the generations who have longed to exercise their democratic rights.
With a EUR&#160;18.5&#160;million contribution to support the electoral process and the deployment of a skilled observation mission, including an experienced delegation from this House, the EU is showing the Palestinians the path to effective democracy.
It is a critical time for stability in the Middle East.
As Javier Solana has indicated, the taxpayers in the EU will not be in a position to sustain political activity conducted along violent lines.
I believe that the situation in Jerusalem may represent a great obstacle to the creation of a viable and credible Palestinian State and become a for the two parties’ most extremist and violent factions, which want to hinder progress towards peace.
The crisis in relations between Iran and the West, the continuing political instability in Iraq, the crisis in relations between Lebanon and Syria, which needs very careful handling and, of course, the situation in the area of Israel and Palestine are intensifying our concern and creating a rather disappointing climate.
The crisis over recent days in relations between Iran and the West has taken its ugliest turn.
The possibility of military intervention against Iran would be disastrous and must be prevented, because another war in the area would create a chain reaction for security and peace, and not only for the area of the Middle East.
The parliamentary elections due to take place in Palestine on 25 January, with which I shall be involved, will be carried out under the shadow of the pre-election period in Israel itself, where elections are to be held two months later, and will place Israel in a new, post-Sharon, era.
The Legislative Council and almost all the political parties in Palestine want Hamas to take part in the elections, so that it too can shoulder some of the responsibility for legislative work.
I shall mention just one incident which took place just yesterday: the Palestinian People's Party candidate for Jerusalem, Fadwa Khader, was arrested during a pre-election meeting by the Israeli occupying army and is now in jail for no reason.
Elections to the new Palestinian Legislative Council will constitute the prospects and, once again, the proof that the Palestinians can operate democratically.
The event was held in Arbil, the capital of the autonomous region of Kurdistan in Northern Iraq, where experts from Europe had the time, in absolute safety, to join with members of the Kurdish Government and Parliament in discussing, very frankly and openly, the prospects and problems associated with the development of democratic states under the rule of law right across that region.
I would very much like to hear from the Commissioner whether she shares with me this vision, and, if so, precisely what the Commission is already setting in motion in Northern Iraq, or what it is preparing to do there.
It is also important to point out the Union’s commitment to the Palestinian people, even though I believe that we need to broaden this commitment politically at a time when the Union should be calling on Israel not only to improve the conditions for passing through and entering the West Bank and Gaza, but also to do away with that hateful barrier that fragments the Palestinian territory, divides local communities – and, in some cases, family units – and disrupts, if not completely destroys, a great many local Arab economies.
The European Union must call on Israel to block any new settlements in territories that remain occupied and to stamp out any discrimination against Palestinians who are living in enclaves within Israeli territory.
I should like to assure the Commissioner that she has our full backing for any measures she takes with regard to Gaza.
The Delegation for relations with Israel is prepared to welcome General Pistolesi to Parliament, and to offer him our full backing for his activities.
Nevertheless, I should like to remind the Commissioner that a delegation of Lebanese parliamentarians, two of whom were members of Hezbollah, visited our Parliament yesterday.
They strongly urged the EU to help Lebanon, and the thrust of their message was, without a shadow of a doubt, ‘save us from Syria’.
We all know, however, that the main problem in the Middle East today is neither Palestine nor Syria, but Iran.
As a graduate in Arabic studies, I have been greatly alarmed in recent months, weeks and days at Russia’s growing ambitions in the Middle East.
I appreciated the relative optimism of your opening words, Commissioner, but I think that things which go without saying are better said and I would like to help strengthen the grounds for optimism.
The first is that in the eyes of many Israelis and of Ariel Sharon, all processes of the Oslo, Taba or Geneva kind fail to take adequate account of the imperative of Israeli security.
It is the only plan there is, however, and it has won over many Israelis, because it was the first to marry the absolute imperative of security with the prospect of peace.
Even if Sharon has gone, a large new party has been born representing a section of the Israeli right that is willing to move towards peace because its mind has been put at rest.
Nevertheless, Commissioner, the partisan mechanics of the Knesset can only move in the direction of deepening the split with Likud and of rapprochement with the parties of Amir Peretz and Schlomo Ben-Ami: Sharon or no Sharon, the necessary break has been made and the inevitable will follow.
Not only must we not over-dramatise at this time, we must stand firmly behind this process, because even though the Palestinian community is strongly influenced by Hamas it will quite obviously follow.
Peace, Commissioner, is today’s promised land and Moses, too, died before he could enter it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, when, in November, the Palestine Delegation met the Catholic bishop, Michel Sabah, he stated clearly that we should not obtain peace in the Middle East during the next 40 years if a just peace were not achieved in Israel/Palestine, involving a proper Palestinian state within bounds corresponding to the pre-’67 borders and not to Sharon’s enclaves.
If Israel annexes the whole of Jerusalem, the key to peace will have been thrown away, and not only in that particular area but also in terms of relations between the Arab countries and the West.
Bishop Michel Sabah’s words were in accordance with the conclusions of the European Council of 7&#160;November 2005.
We even maintain Israel’s major economic privileges, despite the fact that they are expressly conditional on Israel’s observance of human rights, and the Council has just arranged for its own report on Jerusalem not to be published.
The fact is that Sharon wanted to call these walled-in enclaves a state, which would mean that Israel no longer had responsibility for the Palestinians under international law.
Matters will undoubtedly end badly unless miracles now take place in Israel and the people of peace and justice acquire power, not only in Palestine but also in Israel, or unless a miracle almost as remarkable occurs and the EU at long last begins to take its own words and international law seriously and makes use of the resources to which Europeans quietly have access.
If the EU wants to be an honest broker in the Palestine conflict, it must speak out much more strongly in favour of the two-State solution.
Persuading Israel to offer the Palestinian territories the necessary space for democratic and economic development will be an essential step in this direction.
If the EU is to be able to play such a valuable role as mediator in this very problematical geopolitical area, however, it must not become a front-line state or party to the conflict itself.
That would put the European Union on the front line with Iran, Iraq, Syria and also, indirectly, with Palestine. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Rocard’s excellent speech reminded me that in my earlier speech I failed to acknowledge his role as chief observer of the Commission delegation last January.
I therefore thank the Commissioner in advance for her reply to my questions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate the Commissioner for her work in assisting the efforts for peace in the Middle East and for enhancing the visibility of the European Union in the region.
Also, the old and new guard of Fatah will find their distinct way of expressing themselves during the legislative elections.
The Palestinians must be able to campaign and vote freely in East Jerusalem.
I hope that the international observers, including our own parliamentary mission, will be able to do their jobs freely, without hindrance and intimidation.
The Israeli elections are also very interesting because there is now a renewed hope generated by the decision of Ariel Sharon to leave Likud and form a new political movement, joined by others, including Shimon Peres.
It is imperative that the assassins of Rafiq Hariri are finally brought to justice. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the election of a democratic Palestinian parliament and the setting up of democratic institutions are the necessary preconditions for the establishment of a viable and sovereign Palestinian state which will live in peace and security next to a secure, peaceful and democratic Israel.
However, they have their place without weapons, without paramilitary approaches, without terrorist action.
There needs to be – and I am calling today for – immediate intervention by the European Union and by you, Commissioner, for the release of the Palestinian parliamentary candidate in Jerusalem, Mrs Fadwa Khader, who was arrested and is now in jail.
Your contribution is indeed important if this situation is to be rectified.
On 12 December, the question of East Jerusalem was discussed again.
We should not feed the radicalisation of extreme Palestinian organisations any more and Israel bears a great deal of responsibility here. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this period is an important opportunity for the Palestinian and Israeli peoples.
Europe must decide how to deal with them.
Most of all, Israel’s current government must realise that a sustainable peace is not possible without a sustainable Palestinian State.
The Middle East is a subject on which one could speak for hours, but I shall take up the most important points.
For a year now we have had much better relations with the Israelis; on the one hand because Prime Minister Sharon kept his word on the withdrawal from Gaza – which was a step forward – and, on the other hand, because of the action plan, in which the Israelis are highly interested.
They are very interested in doing something.
On your third question, I would say that we are very preoccupied about the sentence on Mr Ayman Nour, the leader of the main opposition party in Egypt.
The Commission was very supportive of a Troika statement issued by the European Union immediately after the sentence.
As I have already said, there is democracy, the rule of law, the basic principles that we all hold up.
President Abbas himself made it very clear that the acceptance of the Oslo Accords and the roadmap forms the basis for participation in the future government.
I know that the Israeli Government is very clear and adamant about certain things it demands of a future Palestinian Government.
I do not want to interfere in any of these processes; we are still two months ahead of the Israeli elections.
The Council’s report – it was a Council decision, by the way – has not been publicised, but it has already been covered in the press, so everybody knows what it contains.
Finally, the important thing for us will be to work very closely with both sides because, as many others have said, the Palestine-Israeli conflict greatly influences the stability of the whole region.
The situation in Iraq and the upcoming difficult situation with Iran do not help to improve the stability of the region. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every human being has the right to live in peace, to live in a democracy and indeed to life itself.
The Neighbourhood Policy, infrastructure, education, and social issues are certainly important, but the key to a permanent solution lies in politics.
Unless the political situation is resolved there will be no progress along the road to peace in the Middle East. &#160;&#160; The situation in the Middle East remains a cause for concern, and is of direct relevance to us in Europe given the energy dependence of the EU on foreign powers, much as my own Scotland is in the happy situation of being a net exporter of energy.
The political reforms underway in some Middle East countries are to be welcomed, and the EU could do more to support the growth of democracy in these countries.
These proposals have been sent to all Members by e-mail and are now on Parliament’s website.
It is unacceptable that, in the 21st century, ten years after the Beijing Platform for Action, women still suffer every form of discrimination – be it at work, in the family, in politics or in society at large – and that the reconciliation of family and working life has yet to be achieved, even though family life is acknowledged to be the main factor holding women back in the labour market.
Unemployment stands at 10% for women and 8.3% for men.
The truth, however, is that women do not make progress in their careers, do not receive regular productivity bonuses, do not receive a share of company profits, and have to accept less significant and less professionally rewarding jobs.
It has been demonstrated that the sharing of family responsibilities between men and women is the first step towards achieving much-needed reconciliation between home life and working life.
With the same rights to a career as men, women must not be forced to do the same work as men outside the home and three times as much in the home.
The involvement of women in the political, social and economic spheres is an essential factor in social progress.
Gender equality is very much a modern, contemporary issue that needs to be part of the EU’s day-to-day political agenda.
The road is long and full of obstacles but we must make our way along that road without wasting any more time.
This report seeks to redress some of these problems.
It is a very useful contribution to our common agenda for growth and employment.
It is essential that we continue our efforts and consolidate the integration of the gender dimension, gender mainstreaming, into all policies.
The need to tackle the disparities between men and women in employment or education and, in particular, the pay gap and its causes must be at the centre of our concerns.
It is important, however, that we tackle all the factors behind these discrepancies, such as the predominance of women in lower paid sectors, the persistence of stereotypes, especially in education and training, or, as you clearly point out, the difficulty of reconciling professional and private life.
The questions of reconciliation between professional and private life are a key aspect of questions of equality.
The Commission fully shares these points of view, as evidenced by the annual report on equality between women and men that has been presented at the spring summit since 2004.
The Commission’s commitment to equality between men and women will also be reflected in the roadmap for male/female equality that the Commission will be presenting shortly.
There was a study on reconciling professional and private life in 2005, for example.
It forms part of the work begun with the Lisbon Strategy and, in my view, has highlighted an extraordinarily important factor for men and women in general and for women in particular: the ambitious target of attaining full employment in Europe by 2010.
The demand for independence must not be left only on paper.
Finally, as has also been said, we support the amendment presented by Mrs Gröner and Mrs Estrela calling on the Commission to make the reconciliation of family life and employment one of the priorities of the gender equality road map, which is currently under discussion, and, in cooperation with the Member States, the social partners and other actors, to review the suitability and effectiveness of Directive 96/34/EC.
That review should focus on how to improve the situation of women and men with a view to reconciling family life and employment for both genders, which would be a key factor in terms of achieving gender equality in all aspects of life.
Mr President, EU leaders promised to make a decisive impact on the eradication of poverty by 2010, yet more than half way through the ten-year period of the Lisbon Agenda this has not happened.
The creation of employment opportunities is not about providing women with low-paid jobs or with less favourable working conditions.
The Strategy calls for the provision of day-care facilities for at least 90% of children over three years of age, and for at least 30% of children below three.
More importantly, it would be the best investment we could make for our future, because children and young people are our future.
I fully support those ambitions and very much hope they will not be in vain, because many ideas are put forward, plans made and dossiers and reports written on the subject of equality between men and women, but few concrete results are seen.
Whether it is the improvement of childcare services – in particular by increasing the number of facilities available – or the promotion of new forms of working such as teleworking to make it easier to reconcile professional, family and private life, all these measures are much more effective in helping to promote equality between men and women than the systematic forced application of the concept of non-discrimination advocated by certain feminist lobbies that are very active in the European Parliament and which they use at every opportunity and always for highly ideological purposes.
Finally, I think it is also particularly important to take account of the distinctive cultural and ethnic characteristics which often stand in the way of promoting equality between men and women. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, this is not the first time we have debated the problems of the participation of women in the productive process and their implications for our progress and social cohesion.
However, it is the first time that we have had an integrated and global approach to the matter as in Mrs&#160;Estrela's report, which highlights the central position of the gender dimension in achieving the Lisbon objectives.
I thank Mrs Estrela for her initiative and her work and the members of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality who took part in this endeavour.
Other speakers have spoken about discrimination and the problems which women face today on the job market as regards their access and deployment and the particular problems which vulnerable groups face in our society, such as female immigrants and elderly women.
Today we can see that no social model in the European Union has addressed this matter with any noteworthy success.
However, the various experiences are worth studying and researching in depth, so that they can be used in the policy guidelines of the European Union and in efforts by the Member States.
That is why I should like to ask the European Commission to address the issue of the different concepts and methods used to calculate participation in the job market.
Similarly, the Commission should take account of the significant differences in concepts and policies concerning parental leave, use of rights and so forth.
The gender dimension cannot remain confined to only a few areas of this strategy.
If Europe wants to reach its growth and employment targets, it is time to change the way people think.
We must make the gender perspective an absolute priority as a matter of urgency and fulfil the promise of a Europe based on the values of democracy, equality and social justice for all&#160;–&#160;women as well as men. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Lisbon Strategy must not be confined to economic policy objectives, but it must also contain principles for strengthening social cohesion and sustainable development.
We must also point out, however, that a lot of things need to be put under the microscope, such as social security and pension systems in the Member States, which are biased in favour of the childless and discriminate against families with children.
That must be a wake-up call for us to do more for gender equality in the European Union.
We must make clear that having children also brings happiness and enriches life, and we must provide incentives for families.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is crucial that, at the very least, the Community institutions and the Member States take this report on board. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Lisbon Strategy set out the objective of an employment rate of 60% for women to be achieved by 2010 and a full employment rate for those available for work by 2010.
Such policies will never happen in the socialistic EU, which is another reason why Britain should leave the European Union and take the actions required to ensure economic regeneration and prosperity while it still can. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, the Lisbon Strategy is an excellent document but, as European Commission president Mr Barroso has told the European Parliament, it lacks realism.
My concern is that this report will turn out to be one of those that describe accurately the situation and status of women in the EU Member States, whether in terms of employment, social situation or health, but whose substance will not be applied in practice.
Finding a proper work-life balance requires us to take account of the social mission of women in improving the demographic situation in Europe.
I am convinced that the social recognition and financial remuneration of this work will significantly enhance the economic situation and social status of women.
European cultural standards cannot be divorced from the issues of equal opportunity and gender equality.
Increasing the participation of women in the labour market must be a top priority for the EU.
However, these advances must go hand-in-hand with greater gender equality in the labour market.
Discrimination against women, occupational segregation and pregnancy discrimination exists on a large scale.
Moreover, the gender pay gap persists across Europe.
We must make better use of this potential and there must be a lifelong approach to ensuring gender equality from education through to career development and adequate pensions for women.
Some progress has been made in recent years, but there is still so much to do.
These are proposals which ultimately aim to downgrade and further privatise and commercialise existing social services, with the consent of women and working class families. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Edite Estrela, for this own-initiative report.
If we are to meet the Lisbon objective of 60% employment among women in the Union by the year 2010, we must start implementing the relevant measures in practice.
The Member States and the Commission should continue to focus on taking effective measures in support of growth, primarily among Europe’s poorest regions, where the lack of jobs forces people, primarily women, to accept jobs with large retail chains in many Member States involving humiliating working conditions, unacceptable hours and extremely low pay.
The position of women in countries with a functioning micro-credit system has changed significantly.
Additionally, it is necessary to ensure that women enjoy better access to post-university level education and life-long learning, as well as to new technologies and the Information Society so as to enable them to cope with the competition in the labour market.
To ensure that EU enlargement acts as a catalyst for improving gender equality policy in the new member countries, we must also improve the standards for implementing measures in national legislation that are intended to eliminate gender inequality in employment, remuneration and/or political representation.
Ladies and gentlemen, I&#160;am convinced that women are a&#160;key to meeting the Lisbon objectives and, hence, deserve the attention of European institutions and governments of the Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur’s report highlights a worrying and, unfortunately, often overlooked fact: the inequality between women and men in research persists and is preventing compliance with the Lisbon objectives.
The strategies in the Lisbon Agenda are the guarantee of Europe’s future.
Investing in education, research and innovation is our only opportunity for coping successfully in the knowledge-based economy.
The unexploited female potential for research is the nuclear power of the future.
We must become better at encouraging young women to choose a research career, and we must at the same time secure better conditions for both women and men in the research world.
There is still an unreasonably wide pay gap between men and women in many Member States.
On the other hand, if our families were provided with competent domestic services – both in caring for and raising children and young people and in looking after and nursing the elderly – large areas of social work would be effectively covered and valuable jobs created at the same time.
Concerns are being expressed not only about the lack of results in the economic field, but also about the lack of progress in combating discrimination.
If the Lisbon Strategy is to be implemented, priority must be given to specific actions aimed at supporting and promoting employment for women and female entrepreneurship.
Women in the Union not only account for over half the overall population, but also represent 58% of university graduates and 41% of PhD graduates.
Objectives to meet 90% of the demand for day-care facilities for school-age children and 33% for infants are not enough, unless quality preschool education is provided, which is only the case in a few European countries.
Help must be given not only to mothers of single-parent families, but also to mothers in general bringing up one, two or more children.
This is the only way we shall be able to be proud of the fact that we are trying to make Europe the leading world power and to support the development and prosperity which will come from social cohesion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mrs Estrela on her report and add something to what has been said so far, most of which I agree with.
Ladies and gentlemen, if, as paragraph 23 of the report states, the aim is to achieve greater coordination between gender equality policies and the Lisbon Strategy in order to take better account of the gender perspective in fulfilling the objectives set out for the European Union in 2000, I would like to draw attention to what is still the very small number of women both in the scientific and technological fields and in important decision-making positions in the business world.
The majority of studies carried out have also stressed the lack of data broken down by gender in scientific and technological fields.
This should be of sufficient concern for us to direct all our efforts, both in the European Union and in our individual Member States, towards determining the causes of this issue and to finding as effective and serious a solution as possible.
In this we must enhance society’s positive attitude to life and encourage women not to miss or renounce that most beautiful mission and joy in life that motherhood brings.
We may even look to the women Members of the European Parliament as a model, since some of us can boast three, five and even nine or ten children.
It all goes to show that women are right to say there is still a lot of work to be done.
I therefore wanted to truly congratulate those who have taken part in the debate, because it deals with a subject that does not concern women alone, but is the concern of all of society and everyone involved in society.
I would also like to say that I share the main ideas that have been expressed in this Assembly and to which I have listened most attentively.
That is an argument we hear all too often in some quarters and it is clearly against such arguments that we need to fight, because they are preventing significant progress being made in some countries.
It is still up to the Member States to legislate on the major questions that have been raised.
The new integrated guidelines clearly restate the necessity of making the gender dimension, gender mainstreaming, part of all employment policies and they reaffirm the need to promote equality between men and women in every action undertaken.
The new strategy for employment takes up the target of a 60% employment rate in 2010.
In particular, it includes in the guidelines the elimination of gender disparities and the promotion of reconciliation between professional and private life.
This strategy seeks to establish a framework for action in which all Community activities, including economic activities and policies and employment policy, can contribute to achieving the objective of eliminating inequality and promoting equality between women and men.
I would like to say a word about the pay gap.
In fact, it results from a number of factors, such as segregation on the employment market, the persistence of stereotypes, especially in education and training, and the difficulty of reconciling professional and private life.
We therefore need to respond to all these underlying factors.
Two guidelines call explicitly on the Member States and the social partners to work towards this.
It should also be noted that the Austrian Presidency has announced its intention of organising a conference on the subject of the pay gap in Brussels at the end of May, and I think it will be quite a special opportunity for making new progress in this field.
The Commission is constantly monitoring equality policy and regularly undertakes or commissions analyses and studies of the economic and legal aspects of equality.
The annual report on equality between men and women, which the Commission has presented to the spring summit of the Heads of State or Government since 2004, is a very important document for monitoring the question of male-female equality in the European Union.
The report sets out the main changes in the respective positions of women and men in education, employment and social life.
The gender dimension is of course included in the statistics.
Eurostat is collaborating actively with the national statistical institutes in order to put in place a common methodology that will enable reliable and comparable data to be collected at European level.
The future Institute for Gender Equality should also make a significant contribution to improving the statistical monitoring of equality policy.
Such, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is the Commission’s response; it fully shares the concerns expressed in the report and once again congratulates the rapporteur on her excellent work. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question to the Commission (O-0080/2005 – B6-0345/2005) by Mr&#160;Bowis, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on disability and development. &#160;&#160; .
One in ten people in developing countries live with disabilities.
One in four families in poverty in developing countries has some member living with a disability.
We want to see a break with that link to poverty so inevitable for people with ill health and disability in developing countries: no wealth without health, but no income without medicine.
Our ACP adopted resolutions in Brussels in 2001, in Cape Town in 2002 and in the Year of People with Disabilities, in 2003, in Europe, we got the guidance note.
The years 1999 to 2009 are the African Decade of Disabled People, set up by the African Union.
It has already been widely circulated in the RELEX family of directorates general and the delegations.
The inclusion of disability in development policy is also covered by point 97 of the European Consensus on Development, which you approved a few weeks ago.
The national level is the most appropriate for implementing this dimension.
Any disability-related programmes will therefore be developed on that basis and at that level.
Obviously, the Commission is in favour of improving outcomes in health and education by means of projects and, increasingly, by budget support.
Political dialogue is an integral part of that support and it is within the framework of that political dialogue that the Commission is able to answer the calls made in this debate.
The Commission will therefore try to encourage the inclusion of disability or of disabled persons in our partner countries’ development strategies while respecting this principle of appropriateness.
We will be trying to convince governments that it is important to tackle these questions effectively.
The figures speak for themselves; policy-makers need to be particularly aware of this group of people.
After all, handicapped people do not benefit automatically from programmes to combat poverty, an area in which there is no mainstreaming for them.
As has already been said, it was in 2003 that the Commission produced a guidance note for all delegations and services that gave handicapped people a place in development policy.
We already knew this in Europe, where disability is much more widespread in the marginal sectors of society and where, furthermore, disabled people from those sectors suffer much more as a result of their condition than those from other more comfortable sectors.
What we are seeing now is that, in a similar way, disability affects the developing world much more than our industrialised countries and that disabled people in the South suffer as a result of their condition much more than those in the developed North.
The Commission will receive a recommendation from Parliament, calling on it to take account of the phenomenon of disability in all of its actions, both in the European strategy for the development of Africa and in the European consensus on development.
This resolution should also help increase awareness of this problem on the part of our governments and populations.
The recently elected President of Bolivia, Evo Morales, signed a series of agreements in Havana.
Disabled people, as we have heard, make up about 10% of any population, but 20% of the poorest are disabled.
They are excluded from social, economic and political life and, in many cases, are denied access to food, water and shelter.
It is important that whatever we bring forward, real action is taken and that action is monitored and evaluated.
The proviso we need to include in aid packages is that aid should include people with disabilities and funded projects should include schemes designed to meet their special needs and open up new and equal opportunities.
We must include enablement in all our approaches to development in developing countries.
My decision is that the vote will be checked in order to satisfy everyone that that indeed was the result. &#160;&#160; Mr President, is it your wish that certain Members of this House be regarded as second-class citizens or not? &#160;&#160; – I have no wish to continue this discussion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I refer to Rule 168 in conjunction with Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure and would like in this connection to ask the Commission whether it is able to accept the amendments adopted by Parliament in this report, in particular Amendment 14, under which 50% of the restructuring funds, which total EUR 6 billion, will go to the producers.
The Commission is able to agree to at least 10% of restructuring aid amounts being reserved for sugar-beet growers and machinery manufacturers.
This amount could be increased by the Member States, depending on their specific situation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, speaking on behalf of my group and further to Rule 168, I rise to request that this report be referred back to the Committee in order that we might negotiate with the Commission and the Council and get these two points accepted.
The only possibility left to us for getting the Council to negotiate is that we send the report back now and use the four weeks that are left to us between now and the next part-session to secure an increase for the producers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Graefe zu Baringdorf is right in the sense that we tabled the amendment on the understanding that at least 50% of the restoration fund would be deployed.
Instead, the Commission has proposed a minimum of 10%, with each Member State being entitled to increase this amount without limit and at its own discretion, and so our group believes that this is no longer an issue.
Mr&#160;President, I refer to Rule 138 concerning translations.
Amendment 1 tabled by the Independence and Democracy Group proposes an alternative draft resolution that heeds and respects our nations’ rejection of any super state and therefore of any constitution.
The translation of this amendment, the English version in particular, distorts the sense of the original in several places.
As we see it, they do not contradict one another but are mutually compatible, so that it is possible to vote in favour of both of them. &#160;&#160; .
As you may appreciate, negotiations are going on today in London.
They are very delicate, regarding finding a long-lasting peaceful solution to the Ngorno Karabakh dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan.
As I now speak in this Parliament, however, another display is boasting the supposed merits of Chinese Maoist democracy, where even today there are still tens of millions of prisoners in labour camps, held because of their beliefs, and where the communist totalitarian ideology that still holds sway has committed its worst atrocities!
What is right today is wrong tomorrow: two standards, depending on whether you belong to a large group or a small one! &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too have some qualms about the Onesta report, despite having voted for it.
They are the limits of freedom with which the people made Parliament, within which they are represented in Parliament and which they do not wish to see removed from Parliament. &#160;&#160; The report by the French member of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Mr Onesta, on the penalties imposed on Members causing a disturbance inside and outside the Chamber is a blow to freedom of speech, especially for political minorities.
As all Members owe their position to sovereignty, be it popular or national, it is sovereignty itself that will find itself under supervision.
Consequently, this report, which should have restricted itself to a single word – 'freedom' of the people's representatives – can be summed up with a different word: oligarchy. &#160;&#160; . – The new amendments to the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure relating to standards for the conduct of Members of the European Parliament is an attempt, in the name of the smooth functioning of Parliament, to use policing and sanctions in order to restrict and control the expression of reaction, protest or disagreement and terrorise those Members who wish to express their opposition to the anti-grass roots policy of the ΕU, to aspects of it or to serious political events.
I support the proposals that aim to give international collaboration between Chambers of Commerce an important role in terms of the competitiveness of small enterprises and the recognition of craft enterprises.
This report quite rightly emphasises that neither the European Commission nor some of the Member States have grasped the scale of the considerable challenge presented by the retirement of millions of people who run small enterprises.
Nevertheless, we congratulate Mrs Vlasto and restate our commitment to the creation of an environment that encourages small businesses to flourish. &#160;&#160; Small enterprises are crucially important to creating jobs in the Member States and thus to Europe’s future development.
Institutional competition, in which the Member States are able independently to find sound solutions without being locked into rigid EU regulations is incredibly important to the development of small enterprises.
Europe's policies have never really taken account of the interests and characteristics of SMEs, even though they make up 99% of businesses.
But if the European Union is to play a part in this, it cannot continue to be a technocracy that is more committed to European ideology than to the interests of Europeans. &#160;&#160; .
We proposed an amendment to the 1986 directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity.
The European Commission has ignored our requests.
I lend my full backing to this report, and particularly welcome the idea of extending the Charter to cover a wider range of countries, not only EU candidate countries but also Mediterranean countries, which will help develop the European neighbourhood policy.
As the rapporteur on sustainable tourism for the EU, I have no hesitation in welcoming the measures being taken in this key area for tourism, which is clearly one of the most important economic sectors in European economic growth and development.
I refer to projects from which the SMEs benefit under the heading ‘Competitiveness, growth and employment’, and more specifically the Seventh Framework Programme for development and the programme for competitiveness and innovation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I voted today in favour of Mr Fruteau’s reports on reform of the sugar market, I did so quite deliberately, for the sugar market in the EU is a very sensitive one.
The Council decision in itself amounts to a triumph for this House and for Europe’s sugar-beet farmers, but the cuts still go too far.
It thus provides for a smaller reduction in price, spread out over time, so that the ACP countries are better able to absorb the impact of reform, and a substantial increase in access to the European market for sugar from the least developed countries.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament's two amendments also move in the right direction, by providing for the complete elimination of European export subsidies (by 2013 at the latest) and compensation for the restructuring of the sugar sector in the ACP countries, based on an estimated requirement of EUR&#160;200 million a year.
I would also have liked the 'everything but arms' initiative to enter into operation as of 2009 and the EU to make it impossible to export sugar at low prices under quota C.
Compensation amounting to EUR 7.5 billion has been offered to European farmers, whereas so far the ACP has only EUR 40 million.
I regret that no new money has yet been agreed to help producers in the 18 ACP Sugar Protocol countries in view of the generous financial package available as part of this reform to EU producers. &#160;&#160; .
The sugar regime had been in need of reform for at least 15 years when the Court of Auditors carried out an extensive study on the sugar regime (Special Report 4/91) and concluded that the system suffered from oversupply and inefficient production patterns and that it was not budget neutral.
I believe that the EU has a duty to provide adequate funds for restructuring assistance to these countries under the financial perspectives, above and beyond the 40 million euros committed so far for 2006.
I therefore voted in favour of an amendment to enshrine EU assistance to the ACP countries within the Direct Support proposal.
This figure is considerably lower than that proposed by both the Commission and Council.
However, we support the report's direction in terms of increasing the energy crops premium and increasing the maximum guaranteed area for such production so as to encourage the promotion of biofuels. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have always accepted the need for a review of the common agricultural policy’s sugar regime, but I object to the total destruction of the sugar industry in my country and in other EU Member States.
Having lost the vote on the common organisation of the market, I logically supported the other two reports – on direct support schemes and the temporary restructuring of the sugar industry – in order to secure the best possible deal for Irish, EU and ACP growers.
Despite these noble objectives, however, the reform proposed by the Commission would cause serious problems for Europe’s farmers, not least the swingeing reduction in the price of sugar.
I therefore endorse Mr Fruteau’s report, along with the work carried out by the various political groups in the Committee on Agriculture, which I feel sends out a very clear message to the Commission and the Council.
In addition to capping price reductions to 30% in the Common Organisation of the Market in sugar, I wish to highlight Amendment 3, on support schemes for farmers, which refers to the possibility of Member States continuing to enjoy production-linked subsidies, at least to some extent.
I would also highlight the safeguarding of the possibility of the restructuring fund supporting those giving up on part of the quota, Amendment 7, which will enable some businesses to effect their conversion. &#160;&#160; We support a radical reform of the sugar sector within the EU.
The European Parliament is attempting to impede the Commission’s proposals for reform.
I cannot therefore, in relation to this dossier, vote today in favour of this entirely unjustified criticism of the Council.
This reform, however, would cause serious problems for Europe’s farmers, not least the swingeing reduction in the price of sugar.
I should accordingly like to point out the possibility, proposed in this report, of Member States continuing to enjoy production-linked subsidies, at least to some extent.
Democratic, human rights and governance aspects must be an integral part of the EU's policy for cooperation with Russia.
The situation in Chechnya can be ameliorated by EU involvement, and this motion contains ideas which we must ensure are taken forward. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Duff/Voggenhuber report amounts to the European Parliament itself wiping the floor with democracy and is an expression of its belief that the referendums in the Netherlands and France are an irrelevance and that the Constitution must enter into force in 2009 by whatever means and no matter what else happens.
In any case, all the European institutions are manifestly united in their contempt for national democracies and for the democratic will of the public.
I heard it said that in the referenda so far, more people have voted ‘yes’ than ‘no’ across all countries and that therefore we should be going ahead with this wonderful Constitution.
Democracy is about following the democratic wishes of the people and ensuring individuals have the power to choose the direction in which they would like their local council, Parliament or Europe to go.
That is why I voted against this report. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, during the discussions on the Duff-Voggenhuber report, some Members have made some very amusing comments, comparing Members who disagreed with them with ostriches.
So, for any scientist or naturalist, being described as an ostrich is not an insult, but an honour! &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement on how I voted on the Voggenhuber/Duff report.
I am also very glad to see that the present text incorporates Amendment 18, which explicitly states that the objections of citizens in countries like France and the Netherlands must be met halfway.
The proposed Constitution has been rejected by 55 % of the voters in France and 62 % in the Netherlands.
The new directly elected Convention must work in public in working groups and plenary meetings for a year.
Finally, the plenary of the Convention may adopt two different proposals, a draft Constitution and a draft Cooperation agreement and then ask the voters what they prefer.
If one or two Member States reject the drafts, a unanimous solution will have to be found in respect of the agreed playing rules for treaty changes.
We expect supporters of the constitution to show the same respect for democracy.
Instead of a complicated constitution and the Nice Treaty with priority over national constitutions, we want a cooperation agreement with no more than 50 articles.
Countries that don't wish to join the cooperation agreement can choose a free trade agreement instead.
Laws should be adopted with unanimity or by a 75 % majority among member states and simple majority in the EU-Parliament.
There should be the opportunity for veto, when a national Parliament votes against a proposal for EU-law and requests the prime minister to bring up the case at the next summit.
Foreign and security policy, the euro cooperation and legal cooperation should not be an obligatory part of the cooperation but can be transferred to an enhanced cooperation if desired by the individual countries.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament rejected this pragmatic and worthwhile policy, and restated their commitment to the current text of the Constitution.
Although Parliament, by means of this resolution, is making a creditable attempt at re-launching the debate, the resolution also gives voice to the expectation that one result of the period of reflection will be the retention of the present-day text of the Constitution, something I regard as deceptive and undesirable, in that it takes no account of the rejection of the Constitution by the French and Dutch electorates.
It is lamentable that Parliament has, on this point, disregarded the warning given by its rapporteurs, Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber, and it is for that reason that I have abstained from taking part in the final vote on the resolution.
The period of reflection must be used to prepare agreement on a procedure that is as democratic as possible for a new reform of the Treaties.
We believe the report to be mainly sound, but we wish to emphasise that it is not the European institutions’ task to convince people about which changes are necessary or constructive.
The ‘no’ votes in the French and Dutch referendums on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe were not a ‘death certificate’, but merely the adjournment of the ratification process under way at the time.
Nevertheless, in light of the negative results in France and the Netherlands, it does not seem possible to continue to try to ratify the current text without amending it.
Although Parliament acknowledges that ratifying the Constitution now faces ‘difficulties that could prove insurmountable’, unless measures can be taken to address the concerns expressed in France, the Netherlands and in other Member States, the majority will still go ahead and transform the current period of reflection into the relaunch of the draft Constitution, on the basis of broad public debate on the future of European integration.
What the majority in Parliament would like to see is a major propaganda campaign to pressure the citizens into accepting the so-called European Constitution.
All too often, the two things that fall by the wayside in any debate about Europe are common reference to what has been achieved and an explanation of the new in that context.
There are in essence two great schools of thought where the future of Europe is concerned.
One of the things that the Constitution did was to show how those who want more Europe and those who want less combine to bring Europe to a standstill – not in the way they think, but in the way they vote.
Europe’s captains of industry and the political forces carrying out their guidelines are, once again against the wishes of the people, trying to regain the initiative. &#160;&#160; I have voted in favour of paragraph 27, but I am not in sympathy with its second sentence.
I agree with the proposal that this period of reflection should be used for the purpose of relaunching the constitutional project on the basis of a broad public debate about the future of European integration.
I also agree with the suggestion that this new democratic dialogue, which should be seen as a chance to promote European democracy, should be conducted and coordinated across the Union, structured by common themes and in realistic stages according to an agreed framework for evaluation, and designed to lead to decisive political choices.
These things could have been brought in long ago, even without a constitution.
Far more contentious were the economic and military policy choices that this text was to set in stone, such as free unhindered competition being one of the EU’s main objectives, the constantly-extended liberalisation of services, or the constant upgrading of the Member States’ weapons systems.
They even want to put a stop to the admission of new Member States until such time as the constitution has been approved.
My party, the Socialist Party, is the largest of the parties that, in the Netherlands, waged a successful campaign against this draft Constitutional Treaty.
I am convinced that the improvements made to the Constitutional Treaty are necessary and, with this in mind, we hope that at the end of the reflection period we can embark on a new path that enables us to clarify today’s controversial issues in a more effective and intelligible manner.
For that reason, we will be voting in favour of this resolution in the hope that, with the involvement of all the Community and national institutions and of the representatives of civil society and the academic world, we can quickly arrive at a new and perhaps simplified text, but one that is endowed with a common soul with which all Europeans can identify themselves. &#160;&#160; . – The report constitutes an unacceptable attempt to distort the will of the people of France and the Netherlands, who jubilantly rejected the reactionary European Constitutional Treaty, and attempts to reintroduce it through the back door.
With the most insolent disdain for the will expressed by the people, it attempts to organise a misinformation campaign in order to coerce the workers into finally accepting the European Constitution, so that it can enter into force in 2009.
The peoples of the ΕU need to understand that there will never be a good European Constitution from the imperialist union of European capital.
If we are to have any hope of a social and civil Europe, the Constitutional Treaty for the EU must once and for all be consigned to the archives. 2.
The EU Constitution is intended to significantly accelerate the militarisation of the EU and (in III-311) lays down a whole range of militaristic projects. 3.
The EU Constitution is intended to prepare the EU to be able to wage war on a global scale.
This would make it possible for the EU to interpret them in such a way as to be able to wage war even without a UN mandate. 6.
I would be the first to say that the EU needs a new way of working, and indeed a new constitution, but not the flawed text so comprehensively rejected by the voters of the Netherlands and France.
The current treaty is certainly inadequate, but it has its uses.
We must not draw premature conclusions, on behalf of the citizens of our Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is well known that this Parliament struggles to communicate with the people it supposedly represents.
They kindly made the following suggestion, using the words of a contemporary recording artist, Tony Hatch, on how to make the European neighbourhood policy better understood.
Neighbours, everybody needs good neighbours; with a little understanding you can find the perfect blend.
In addition, the European Union's ambitions include a common foreign and security policy that, before putting the EU on the grand international diplomatic stage, should concentrate on its sphere of influence, and partnerships with the States and political communities around us.
The whole point of this valuable contribution from Parliament is to define the future content of our policy towards Russia, Turkey, the Middle East and the Maghreb.
Finally, I would like to welcome the report's reference to the need to define this neighbourhood policy in the near future, in agreement with the existing pan-European organisations such as the OECD and the Council of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was pleased to vote for the report on the European Neighbourhood Policy.
The European Union is not a fort; the European Union is not an island.
We need good neighbours, cooperating partner states.
The reason I still asked for the floor is that in my opinion, the importance of the good neighbourhood policy far exceeds the interpretation currently given to it by the European Union.
In our current thinking, forced enlargement plays a much more serious part than the neighbourhood policy.
I believe that it would be wiser to develop some sort of special partner status, and deepen the neighbourhood policy.
I voted in favour of the Tannock report, on account of the importance that it attaches to Article 6 of the Maastricht Treaty as a cornerstone of the ENP, whilst making it clear that this policy is not an alternative to membership of the EU.
Lastly, I welcome the recognition of the contribution made by future partners such as Cape Verde to our common fight against terrorism, illegal arms trafficking, poverty and human slavery.
We are therefore voting in favour of the report in the final vote.
The neighbourhood policy should be limited to issues concerning cooperation on trade, democracy and human rights.
I support the rapporteur’s proposals highlighting the need to increase funding for the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) in order to address the problem of access to the internal market, to set out a clear strategy to combat international terrorism and organised crime, to improve legislation on energy networks and transport networks, and to cooperate on environmental issues.
This idea came from the European Neighbourhood Policy – in both formal and substantive terms – given that, in my view, it is close to home that the EU can and should play its main role on the international stage.
Whilst I am in favour of greater enlargement, I am also aware of the finite nature of the process and of the fact that, come what may, it will always be necessary to develop policy aimed at promoting a vast area of peace, stability and prosperity around us.
I therefore feel it is vitally important for Parliament to keep a close eye on this policy – and the corresponding financial framework – because this is one area in which it is possible to translate words into action.
The country is also a stable and secure outpost of the European area.
Although it is Europe’s Southeast Atlantic border, Cape Verde has been included in other programmes that, in themselves, neither reflect the country’s actual proximity, nor recognise its identification with the values we share, such as the rule of law, the promotion of good neighbourly relations and the principles of the market economy and sustainable development.
It is well known that the first contact has been made by the government and the largest opposition party in Cape Verde, to argue the country’s case for obtaining special status or establishing a partnership with the EU.
Cape Verde could also represent a vital counterweight in the policy, which would be all the poorer were it narrowly centred on the Union’s southern and eastern borders.
I welcome the adoption of Amendments 36 and 38. &#160;&#160; .
It is vital that these actions are continued and I was pleased to support this resolution. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the fact that the Estrela report is certainly not the worst report we have approved in the history of this Parliament is of course a consequence of our fundamental agreement on the heart of the matter.
Women have the right to be integrated into the normal working processes as the equals of men in every respect, with, moreover, the right to equal pay for equal work, although it is common knowledge that there is still a need for more progress in this area.
In addition to that, it has to be said that there needs to be a solution to the issue of pensions rights and to the social security arrangements of parents working at home for all or part of the time, whose contribution to society is of incalculable value. &#160;&#160; We voted in favour of Amendment&#160;19.
We strongly believe that women as well as men have an important role to play in achieving the economic goals of the Lisbon strategy which must be to secure long-term economic growth and high employment levels.
This is the only way in which we can build a society geared towards lifelong education and training, at the root of which is ensuring that our citizens are knowledgeable and well-informed.
Women also have greater difficulty in reconciling working life and family life.
The financial perspective, in the form in which it was adopted by the Council, did not augur well, in terms of the swingeing cuts to the funds most closely linked with the Lisbon Strategy.
I sincerely hope that the talks between Parliament, the Commission and the Council succeed in limiting the damage already done. &#160;&#160; The next item is the continuation of the debate on disability and development. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, there are more than 600&#160;million disabled people in the world, and over 400&#160;million of them live in developing countries.
Clearly, however, the disabled do have the potential to be actively involved in developing their countries.
In this connection it is worth bearing in mind that disability and poverty are often related.
One of the reasons why disability has not been given the attention it deserves may be a failure to understand and appreciate the potential of what might seem a powerless group, namely the disabled and their families.
Taking the large number of disabled people into account, the short-term cost of their education and integration is bound to lead to economic gain for the disabled in the longer term, and for their families and for society as a whole too.
Programmes aimed specifically at the disabled tend to be very small, and to have little impact on national or international strategies for combating poverty or for development.
The disabled have the right to break out of the vicious circle of poverty and disability. &#160;&#160; The number of disabled people in the world is vast.
At the cost of a few million euros, probably amounting to only a small fraction of one percentage point of our budget, we could have prevented one million children from living in total darkness for the rest of their lives.
I dare propose that in addition to the WHO campaign VISION&#160;2020, we attempt to set up and fully finance an EU ‘Stop Child Blindness Now’ task force with the aim of eradicating preventable paediatric blindness, as soon as possible, and certainly much sooner than 2020.
Before this parliamentary debate is finished, the chances are that a few children somewhere in Asia, Africa or South America will have their limbs blown to pieces by these satanic devices.
Child blindness and landmine-related loss of limbs in children are two forms of serious disability in the developing world that can be prevented to a very large degree, if we show willingness and determination so to do.
The education of disabled children, for example, is an integral part of education strategies in many developing countries, such as Uganda or Ethiopia.
I shall therefore be debating, discussing and defining and also listening to individual countries and regional organisations in order to try&#160;–&#160;as I had promised in the general development policy statement – to help our partners to develop or to propose coherent programmes that are genuinely convergent.
Not only do they suffer from physical handicaps, but sometimes also from mental handicaps.
Armed, therefore, with the road map, the guidelines and the motion for a resolution that you will undoubtedly adopt, I promise you that I will make a point of dealing with this issue in all of the seminars and bilateral meetings that I hold in each country.
I believe that this has come at a really good time and I thank you for drawing my attention to this problem, because in the heat of action, we tend to neglect certain issues, and though it is true that the partner countries must make proposals, we must also make our own suggestions.
On my return from these working visits on the country strategy papers, therefore, the objective of which is to produce a proposal on programming common to the Member States and the Commission, with a view to becoming more effective and consistent in the definition of our development programme, I propose that I present you with a report.
I shall produce a report to Parliament at the beginning of April on the proposals or projects to which we have committed ourselves and, together, we shall evaluate the programme and any progress that has been made.
I do not believe I can offer you anything more: I promise that I will use your motion for a resolution as a speaking note, and you will then judge whether any significant progress has been made.
I hope that, in April, I will be able to show you that the work of Parliament and the initiatives you have taken have not fallen on deaf ears: your proposal will be given the full place it deserves, since I am convinced that this is a just cause. &#160;&#160; To end the debate, I have received six motions for resolutions(1) in accordance with Rule 108(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
Subsequently the Peruvian Attorney-General requested his extradition from Chile in order to face a total of 12 charges, including using a death squad to kill 25 people in two separate incidents.
Specifically over recent days we have witnessed a good example of democratic maturity in Chile, where the opposition candidate has sportingly acknowledged his defeat and made a point of personally congratulating the President-elect.
For this reason, and on the basis of a request from the competent Peruvian authorities, I would ask, Commissioner, that the Union send a mission of electoral observers to the coming presidential elections in Peru in order to demonstrate our solidarity with the cause of democratic consolidation in that country.
The extradition of Fujimori to Peru, where he must be tried with guarantees, is therefore desirable, though not sufficient.
The European Union, in line with its firm commitment to combating impunity, must recognise the important work of the organisations of victims of the Fujimori dictatorship and of human rights activists and support them in their work.
These two countries have very long memories, stretching back to the War of the Pacific in the 19th century, in which Peru lost Arica and Tacna to Chile.
Indeed, Mr Toledo’s officials raised this matter with me personally in Brussels last year during his state visit to Belgium.
Fujimori, as we all know, eventually fled into exile in Japan in November 2000 after his security chief, Vladimiro Montesinos, was exposed as having bribed a congressman.
Peru has been courageous in analysing the unprecedented situation of political violence that the country suffered between 1980 and 2000.
The ‘National Truth and Reconciliation Commission’ was created during the time of the transitional government led by Valentín Paniagua and confirmed by President Toledo.
The European Union and the European Parliament have demonstrated their support for the work of this commission and the implementation of its recommendations.
The international community sees it as extremely important that these elections take place within a climate of transparency, stability and calm and that they represent progress in the process of democratic consolidation underway.
As you know, the European Union has made the defence of human rights and democracy the cornerstone of its foreign policy in general and of its policy on Latin America in particular.
The fight against impunity is clearly an essential element of this.
The Commission congratulates the Chilean and Peruvian Governments on their cooperation in the arrest of Mr&#160;Fujimori by the Chilean authorities, and of course we would encourage the two governments to continue to cooperate in this manner.
Within this context, the Commission must express its confidence in the judicial systems of the two countries in question.
The Commission is sure that Peru’s extradition request will be treated by Chile fully in accordance with the applicable legislation and that any solution will respect fundamental rights, entirely in accordance with international laws and standards. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
If we adopt this resolution, we in this House will be joining a number of leading figures in the United Nations who have already denounced these occurrences.
The UN’s Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, was critical of the security forces’ brutality and said that there could be no justification for this sort of violence and that this loss of human life was indefensible.
We call on the Egyptian Government to allow the involvement in these investigations of human rights experts from the United Nations and independent Egyptian human rights organisations.
Since respect for human rights is fundamental to Egypt’s association agreement with the European Union, we urge the Council and the Commission to raise these incidents at the next meeting of the EU’s Association Council with Egypt.
Firstly, this Parliament has a responsibility to highlight and condemn actions taken by authorities that are a blatant and tragic breach of peoples’ human rights, particularly when these events occur in the EU neighbourhood and with countries that we are working with through cooperation and/or association agreements.
In this case, the EU and Egypt have an association agreement that has been in force since June 2004.
Secondly, I welcome the commitment by the Egyptian authorities to start an investigation into what happened on 30&#160;December.
I hope that the silver lining on this very dark cloud that sits over the event will be a credible assurance from the authorities in Egypt that their security forces will act in compliance with international standards and without a disproportionate use of force in the future.
Finally, this motion supports the UNHCR and calls on the Commission to establish a closer partnership with the UNHCR by offering both political and financial support to assist them in their office in Cairo in order to work more closely with the Egyptian authorities to find lasting solutions to the difficult situation of Sudanese migrants and refugees in Egypt. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, the human rights situation in Egypt is highly unusual.
Although not even the European Parliament has been able to protest at the fact that the army prevented voters from entering polling stations in a number of towns during the recent election, political stability must be safeguarded in Egypt in order to secure peace in the Middle East.
Yet we must ask ourselves whether such political stability should be achieved at the expense of citizens’ fundamental democratic rights.
The situation outlined in the motion for a resolution should serve as a stark warning in this respect.
A situation in which the perpetrator of a questionable offence can be sentenced to several years in prison can only be interpreted in one of two ways.
The fact that a peace deal has now been signed between the parties to the conflict in Sudan does not mean that the Darfur conflict has been resolved.
The problem of the refugees and their possible repatriation needs to be tackled, in cooperation with the Sudanese and Egyptian Governments, although I am aware of the problems this entails.
I am therefore in favour of the resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the tragic events of 30 December in Cairo led to the deaths of 27 people, according to the Egyptian authorities, but in reality there were many more: dozens, even hundreds, up to 220 dead according to some sources.
The States refusing to receive these people solely because a peace agreement has been signed should also therefore bear some of the responsibility.
For all of these reasons, as other Members have said, I believe that it is important that an investigation be carried out.
It is also important, however, for the Egyptian authorities to release all of the people still being detained, to cease all expulsions and to allow the representatives of the HCR free access so that they can look into the refugees’ demands.
It is also important for this tragedy to be seen within the context of the general asylum and immigration policy.
We cannot refuse asylum to people who are in danger in their country, and this is not just an issue for Egypt and Sudan, just as Ceuta and Melilla was not a Hispano-Moroccan issue.
Firstly, they succeeded in surviving and fleeing from a war, and now they are persecuted in Egypt when they try peacefully to contact the UN.
The fighting has gone on for over 20&#160;years, and two million people have lost their lives.
Six million were forced to leave their homes and thousands of women and children have been kidnapped or raped.
It has granted refugee status to only a few thousand, most of whom wished to emigrate to the United States, Canada or Europe.
The darker-skinned African population in the South of the country is protesting against discrimination by the Arab population that is now in power in Khartoum.
Religion also plays a part in this internal conflict, because once in power the mostly Muslim Arabs have been treating the animist and Christian darker-skinned Africans like slaves.
The conflict in Sudan is also indicative of a failure on the part of the international community.
The Commission supports the initiative aimed at calling upon the Egyptian authorities to release all of the asylum seekers still behind bars.
The Commission also supports the request presented to the Egyptian authorities that they establish a public institution in accordance with international standards, which will be responsible for dealing with asylum requests.
Within the framework of the action funded by means of the programme in the budget line relating to cooperation with third countries in the field of migration, since 2004 the Commission has been funding a project worth more than EUR 1 million through the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, with the aim of enhancing protection for asylum seekers and refugees in Egypt.
With regard to the responsibility of the HCR, I personally cannot endorse the criticisms expressed by one speaker in this regard.
The international community must take decisive action to secure the freedom of all humanitarian organisation activists and to have the charges against them dropped.
Dissident opinions and comments should be challenged by means of public debate rather than in courts of law, and the arrest of dissidents in Cambodia is a serious threat to freedom of expression and political pluralism in that country.
The Council, the Commission, and this House, now have the task of making it plain to our Cambodian partners that if they keep on violating those terms, they will no longer be able to do business with us.
We know that there are many other prisoners, and that many more summonses and arrest warrants have been issued, and we are particularly aware of the repression of minorities.
This attitude has now resulted in the arrest and imprisonment of opposition members of parliament.
It is worth recalling that Pol Pot’s bloodthirsty regime remained internationally recognised for a long period of time, even after being defeated, the only reason for that being that the new regime under Hun Sen, which had liberated the country from that band of murderers, was suspected of maintaining friendly relations with its Vietnamese neighbour.
In future, Cambodia must get a quite different message.
We are willing to play our part in that process.
In paragraph&#160;12, we reiterate our call for an ad hoc delegation from this House to go to Cambodia to see the problems for ourselves.
This motion for a resolution has the enthusiastic backing of my group and indeed my own backing.
I should cite what Human Rights Watch said about Cambodia in 2005: ‘The political opposition was effectively dismantled with the arrest or threat of arrest of opposition parliamentarians and the impunity of perpetrators of human rights abuses continued.
I should remind you that in 1997 the only opposition politician, Sam Rainsy – who, paradoxically, is protected by this House’s Freedom-Passport Initiative – was giving a speech in the capital when several grenades were launched into the crowd in front of him and at least 16&#160;people died.
That is what happens when an opposition leader makes a speech in the capital of that country.
The discouragement felt by many Members when we see that things are not improving and that we have to deal with this issue over and over again in this Chamber is understandable, but we must not for that reason cease to raise the issue whenever events such as the recent ones take place, involving the repression of human rights activists, radio stations, teachers’ unions, activists, journalists, trade unionists in different fields, former parliamentarians, etc.
Only with the help of vigorous and decisive measures on the part of the European Union, the Commission and this Parliament where Cambodia is concerned might actions of this kind be reduced or eliminated.
It is also important to send a delegation to Cambodia to assess the situation.
I shall not say any more, Mr President, due to lack of time, but I would emphasise that I agree with what previous speakers have said. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, human rights represent a set of ideals.
Even the most democratic of countries only comes close to these ideals in certain spheres.
At the same time, however, it is of course intolerable that basic procedures should be disregarded when members of the Cambodian Parliament are sentenced to several years in prison.
There is clearly an urgent need to ensure that conditions are in place that allow representatives of international organisations to do their jobs, as well as to promote the emergence of a free press and respect for trade union rights.
A fact-finding mission would doubtless be a very good idea, and I would recommend that European Parliament representatives be sent to the country as soon as possible, once an agreement has been reached with the Cambodian Government.
If we tacitly approve of an approach of this kind, we could be regarded as being complicit in such crimes.
I am therefore very much in favour of the motion for a resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there were no less than three European Parliament resolutions on Cambodia last year, and I should like the House to bear this in mind as I speak on the matter.
The Cambodian authorities show blatant disregard for the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights Defenders and for the European Union guidelines on the subject adopted two years ago.
I agree with Mr&#160;Smith and Mr&#160;Vatanen who said that we must apply economic pressure to the Cambodian authorities.
The Commission believes that the weakening of the opposition through the politicised use of the judiciary threatens to disrupt the still-developing democratic process in Cambodia.
At the same time, the Commission and Member States will work even more closely with the human rights organisations which have been targeted in order to support their work.
As recommended by Parliament in its last resolution on Cambodia, the Commission is currently considering whether to propose the establishment of a working group on cooperation in the areas of institution-building, administrative reform, governance and human rights in order constructively to engage the Cambodian authorities on these issues.
Finally, in the forthcoming donor meeting in Phnom Penh in March, a strong message will be passed to the Cambodian authorities by the EU and the donor community as a whole that freedom of expression and other basic human rights must be upheld in the interest of all Cambodia’s citizens.
I would like to assure this House that the Commission, through its delegation in Phnom Penh, and together with the missions of EU Member States in Cambodia, will continue to monitor the situation very closely.
The international community, especially the EU which had such a vital role in the establishment of the new Cambodia, should ensure that the political situation does not deteriorate further and should support the strengthening and deepening of Cambodia’s democracy.
I would ask you to request the services to examine all the language versions with this in view. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in this amendment the name of one of the members of parliament was omitted by us and I would appreciate it if it could be inserted.
It is the name of Chea Poch.
It would then read: ‘the judgment against Sam Rainsy and Chea Poch’. &#160;&#160; It is an addition, Mr President.
In Cambodia you go to prison, hence the reason why some of these individuals have been imprisoned.
